Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  September  2003,  Applicant  was
arrested  and  charged  with  assaulting  and  harassing  his  girlfriend  and  that  in  January
2005, the assault charge was nolle prosequi, he was convicted of the harassment charge,
and he was ordered to complete an anger management class (SOR 1.a). The SOR also
alleged that in April 2011, while serving in the U.S. Army, Applicant received non-judicial
punishment  (NJP)  under  Article  15  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  for
violating orders to have no contact with a female co-worker when he confronted her and
had an argument with her (SOR 1.b); that in December 2021, he again received Article
15 NJP and was ordered to complete anger management training after he assaulted a
female  with  whom  he was  in  a  relationship  (SOR  1.c);  and  that  in June  2013,  he  was
administratively separated from the Army and given a general discharge under honorable
conditions (SOR 1.d).
The SOR further alleged that in August 2014, Applicant was terminated from his
civilian employment after arguing with co-workers (SOR 1.e); and that in June 2016, he
was terminated from another job for having a relationship with a co-worker at an overseas
job site (SOR 1.f).
Additionally,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  April  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with
misdemeanor  possession  of  less  than  one-half  ounce  of  marijuana  and  driving  while
impaired (DWI) and while his license was revoked; however, the charges were dismissed
when the arresting officer did not appear in court (SOR 1.g).
The  SOR  alleged  that  in  May  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor
assault on a female and violation of a domestic violence protective order (DVPO), those
charges  being  dismissed  when  the  victim  did  not  appear  in  court  the  following  month
(SOR  1.h).  Finally,  Department  Counsel  amended  the  SOR  to  add,  as  SOR  1.i,  an
allegation that in March 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with violating another
DVPO.
In response to the SOR (Answer) and the SOR amendment, Applicant admitted
with explanations all of the Guideline E allegations. In addition to the facts established by
Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old.  In October 2006, he enlisted in the U.S. Army and served
on  active  duty  as  an  imagery  analyst  in  the  military  intelligence  community.  He  first
received a security clearance early in his  Army career. He deployed to Iraq four times
between  2008  and  2011.  In  June  2013,  the  Army  administratively  separated  him  for
misconduct involving a serious offense. He received a general discharge under honorable
conditions. (Answer; GX 1; AX I; Tr. 43, 70 – 73)
After leaving the Army, Applicant obtained employment with  a series of defense
contractors in jobs that required a security clearance and the skills he learned in the Army.
Those  jobs  sometimes  required  Applicant  to  work  in  Afghanistan,  Iraq,  and  other
overseas locations in support of  U.S. military operations.  He still held the last of those
jobs at the time of his most recent personal subject interview (PSI) with a government
investigator in June 2018. He has since left that job (the record is silent as to when), but
now has a pending job offer with another contractor contingent on his eligibility for another
security clearance. In the meantime, he has been working in the real estate industry. (GX
1; GX 2; Tr. 37)
Applicant was married between December 2006 and September 2011. He has one
child with his ex-wife from before they were married. He has two other children with an
ex-girlfriend. In September 2003, he and that ex-girlfriend got into an argument and he
became violent, punching the woman in the head with his fist two or three times. A few
days later, the police arrested him and charged him with assault and harassment. In court,
the assault charge was nolle prosequi and he pleaded guilty to harassment. He was fined,
placed on probation for 90 days, and ordered to complete an anger management class.
Although he completed all of the terms of his sentence, he also was jailed for 30 days
after failing to appear at one of the hearings in that case. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 32, 36 –
39)
In 2011, while in the Army and assigned in an overseas combat-zone, Applicant
got into an argument with a female soldier with whom he worked and with whom he had
been in a relationship. Because the two had gotten into several arguments, Applicant’s
chain of command ordered him to have no contact with that female soldier outside of the
workplace  (a  joint  operations  center).  In  April  2011,  Applicant  approached  the  female
soldier  in  an  operations  trailer  and  they  argued.  During  the  argument,  he  pushed  her
against the wall. Applicant’s deployment was terminated early and he was returned to the
United  States.  In  July  2011,  he  received  NJP  for  violating  a  lawful  order,  an  offense
punishable  under  UCMJ  Article  92.  He  was  reduced  in  rank  from  sergeant  (E-5)  to
specialist  (E-4),  assigned  45  days  of  extra  duty,  and  ordered  to  complete  anger
management  training.  Additionally,  his  clearance  was  suspended  locally  while  he
completed his extra duty and the anger management training. His access was restored
in August 2011 after he completed his punishment. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 4; GX 6;
Tr. 33, 39 – 41)
In December 2012, after Applicant transferred to another overseas duty station, he
began a sexual relationship with a female soldier. He had regained his rank of sergeant
and the female was a private first class (E-3). One evening he went to her room to tell her
that he did not like the fact that she was friendly with other men. The two argued and the
encounter escalated to the point he choked the female on her bed. Applicant’s command
sent  him  back  to  the  United  States  and  awarded  him  NJP  in  April  2013  for  assault
consummated by a battery, a violation of UCMJ Article 128. Although he denies choking
the woman, he was found guilty. He was demoted to specialist (E-4), awarded 45 days
extra duty and placed on restriction for 45 days. He also was fined half of his monthly pay
for  two  months;  however,  that  part  of  his  sentence  was  suspended  for  90  days.
Additionally,  Applicant  was  ordered  to  have  no  contact  with  the  female  soldier  and  to
complete anger management training. (Answer; GX 2; GX 5; Tr. 33, 41 – 44)
Sometime after his Article 15 punishment, despite having been ordered to have no
contact with her, Applicant decided he could approach the female soldier. He believed it
was not inappropriate to try to resume their relationship because he no longer was a non-
commissioned  officer.  His  chain  of  command  became  aware  of  this  and  decided  to
commence  administrative  separation  proceedings  against  Applicant.  The  Army
discharged him as a specialist on June 18, 2013.  Applicant’s  Certificate  of  Release  or
Discharge  from  Active  Duty,  better  known  as  a  DD-214,  lists  “misconduct  (serious
offense)” as the reason for separation. (GX 2; AX H)
In March 2014, Applicant began working for a defense contractor as an imagery
analyst in support of overseas U.S. military operations. In that job, he was part of a team
that worked in round-the-clock shifts. On August 1, 2014, Applicant was late in reporting
for  his  assigned  shift.  When  his  supervisor  addressed  Applicant’s  tardiness,  Applicant
took  issue  with  rules  for  shift  turnover  with  which  he  disagreed.  He  argued  with  his
supervisors, reacting aggressively, profanely, and in a threatening manner towards them,
as well as towards the government program manager. Applicant was subsequently sent
back  to  the  United  States.  His  company’s  investigation  into  this  incident  was  well-
documented and showed that Applicant did not take full responsibility for his actions and
that Applicant did not want to comply with “stupid little rules” in the workplace. At hearing,
he  testified  about  the  incident  and  gave  his  side  of  the  story,  but  he  stopped  short  of
accepting responsibility for his behavior. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 7; Tr. 44 – 49)
In  September  2014,  Applicant  found  employment  in  a  similar  position  with  a
defense contractor. Again, he was assigned to work overseas in support of U.S. military
operations. He was fired from that job in April 2016 after violating rules against being in
the quarters of someone of the opposite sex. Applicant and a female co-worker had been
in a romantic and sexual relationship before being sent overseas. Both of them knew the
rules regarding fraternization. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 49 – 52)
In April 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with assault on a female. The
victim in that incident was the same co-worker with whom he had a sexual relationship
overseas in 2016. Applicant and the victim got into an argument, and he became angry
and pushed her against a refrigerator, hit her in the face with an open hand, and pushed
her to the floor. He then left, but returned later the same day and pushed her to the ground.
The victim texted a friend and asked her to call the police, and Applicant was arrested.
She also obtained a DVPO against Applicant. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; GX 6; AX E; Tr. 33, 55
– 57)
Applicant was unemployed between June and November 2016, when he was hired
by another defense contractor for imagery work overseas. In April 2017, after his arrest
for assault, and before he could deploy for work, he was involved in a traffic accident with
a  police  car.  Applicant  insists  the  police  car  was  at  fault.  Nonetheless,  Applicant  was
determined to be under the influence of alcohol and was found to be in possession of less
than one-half ounce of marijuana. He was arrested and charged with misdemeanor drug
possession and DWI. The charges were dismissed when the police officer failed to appear
in court, having left the police department sometime before the trial date. Applicant admits
that he was illegally in possession of marijuana and that he was impaired by alcohol while
driving. In June 2017, Applicant lost his job because his legal problems prevented him
from deploying overseas. Thereafter, he was unemployed until September 2017, when
he was hired by the defense contractor for whom he worked until he started in the real
estate industry. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; AX C; AX D; Tr. 33 – 34, 52 – 55, 68 – 70)
When Applicant was arrested for DWI and drug possession as discussed above,
he was held in jail overnight before being released on his own recognizance. After getting
out of jail, he went to the home of the woman who had just obtained the DVPO against
him.  He  left  a  note  on  her  door  saying  he  would  leave  her  alone.  The  next  day,  he
appeared in court to answer the assault charge, which was dismissed because the victim
did not appear to support the charges. However, when he appeared at the courthouse,
he  was arrested  and  jailed  for violating  the  DVPO.  Applicant and  the  victim  subsequently
lived  together as platonic roommates for a  few  months, and  he  feels they  are on  good
terms.   The   victim   submitted   a   letter   in   support  of  Applicant’s  request  for  a   clearance;
however,  that  letter  makes  no   mention   of  the   adverse  events  addressed   by   the   SOR.
(Answer; GX 1  –  3; GX 6; AX  E; AX G; Tr. 33, 55  –  57,  66  –  68)
On March 4, 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with violating a DVPO. He
and a woman he was seeing in late 2019 or early 2020 got into an argument that became
so heated that she obtained the protective order for a year. Applicant violated the order
by contacting  her on  social media (he  “liked” a  picture or comment  she  had  posted  on
Facebook). The violation charge was dismissed after Applicant completed an anger and
emotional management class. The DVPO has since expired. (HX 3; GX 8; Tr. 34 – 35, 57
– 61)
All of  the  anger management  training or counseling Applicant  has received  has
been ordered by the military or a civilian court.  Apart from engaging in meditation and
speaking with a therapist “a few years back,” he has not sought any sustained counseling
or  therapy  to  address  his  history  of  anger-related  misconduct  or  personal  relationship
difficulties.  Applicant  testified  he  believes  his  anger  management  difficulties  are
hereditary, because he has seen the same issues in his parents and in his children. (Tr.
61 – 65)
Applicant testified that his performance in the Army and in his civilian positions was
professional  and  noteworthy  despite  the  adverse  information  presented  by  the
Government. He presented a letter from an Army officer dated October 4, 2016, after he
was sent home for violating fraternization rules overseas. The officer praised Applicant’s
professional expertise and dedication to the mission at hand, but made no mention of any
transgressions  Applicant  may have  committed.  Applicant  also  submitted  two  character
references from military and civilian co-workers. Both authors praised his dedication and
expertise.  Again, there was  no mention of  any adverse  conduct or other issues  raised
through the SOR. His DD-214 lists numerous decorations, including the Iraq Campaign
Medal with three stars, a Joint Service Commendation Medal, and two Army Achievement
Medals. (Answer; AX A; AX B; AX F; AX H; Tr. 51 – 52)
