Applicant is 58 years old, married for the second time, and has two children. He
received  a  bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since  December  2019  and  seeks  to  obtain  national  security  eligibility  and  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment. He worked as a Federal employee for one
of the military services as a manager from 1997 until he retired in October 2019. (Item 2
at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  criminal  conduct  that  creates  doubt  about  a  person’s
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Applicant admitted all the allegations under this
paragraph.  All  the  statements  of  fact  regarding  the  allegations  are  from  a  Report  of
Investigation  (ROI)  prepared  by  an  authorized  investigator  of  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  after  an  interview  with  Applicant  taken  under  oath,  except  as  otherwise
stated.  Applicant  agreed  to  the  accuracy  and  truthfulness  of  the  ROI  in  DOHA
interrogatories signed by him on August 3, 2021. (Item 4,)
1.a.  Applicant  was  arrested  in  July  2011  and  charged  with  Driving  Under  the
Influence (DUI). He stated that the court sentenced him to a pre-trial diversion program
and  his  driver’s  license  was  suspended.  He  also  had  to  perform  community  service,
attend  Mothers  Against  Drunk  Drivers  presentations,  and  take  a  drivers’  education
course. He stated that after completing the diversion program the charges were dismissed
and expunged. When questioned as to why this arrest  was not set forth in his 2020 e-
QIP, discussed below, he stated that he had self-reported it at the time, and he believed
the Government should know about it. (Item 4 at 12-13.)
1.b.  Applicant  admitted   that  he   was  arrested   in  April  2017   and   charged   with
Disorderly  Conduct. He  stated  this incident  was the  result of  an  argument between  his
wife  and  a  restaurant owner, eventually  both  he  and  his wife  were arrested.  He further
stated   that  the   court   dismissed   the   charges  after  one   year  of  no   interaction   with   the
restaurant.  Applicant stated  he  could not  remember  whether he  self-reported  this incident.
He further stated  that he  did not report this incident on  his security  questionnaire  because
he did not think it was required. (Item  4 at 11-12.)
1.c.   Applicant  admitted   that  he   was  charged   in  July   2019   with   a   Warrant,
Communicating  a  Threat.  During  a  verbal argument with  his wife  he  stated  that he  would
kill her after she  communicated  a  threat to  cut off  his penis while  he  slept.  The  police  were
called and  Applicant was arrested.  He  stated that  the  court initia
lly  found  him  guilty. Two
weeks later, on  a  petition  from  his wife, the  charges were dismissed. He stated  that he
did not  report this incident  on  his  security  questionnaire  because  the  case  was dismissed.
(Item  4 at 10-11.)
1.d. Applicant admitted that he was arrested in August 2019 and charged with DUI.
He  was  arrested  after  attending  his  own  retirement  party.  In  February  2020  he  was
convicted. He spent two days in jail, paid a fine, his driver’s license was suspended for
90 days, and he was placed on one year’s unsupervised probation. Applicant stated that
he did report this arrest to his Federal civilian employer as required. He did not report it
on his security questionnaire since he did self-report it, and he believed the Government
should know about it. (Item 4 at 9-10.)
1.e.  Applicant  admitted   that  he   was  arrested   in  July   2020   for  Harassment  and
Simple  Assault. The  charges were in regard to  two  fights between  Applicant and  his wife.
According   to   Applicant   all   the   charges  were  eventually   dismissed   by   the   court   with   no
findings. (Item  4 at 8-9.)
1.f.  Applicant  admitted   that   he   was  arrested   in  August  2020   and   charged   with
Public Intoxication. He  was issued  a  citation, and  immediately  paid the  $300  fine. (Item  4
at 7-8.)
1.g. Applicant  admitted  that  he  was arrested  in April 2021  and  charged  with  DUI.
He  was  found   guilty   and   ordered   to   perform   community   service  and   attend   alcohol
treatment.  Attached  to  his Answer is documentation  from  the  treatment center showing
that he  had  successfully  completed  a  30-hour outpatient  program  on  August 17, 2021.
(Item  1 at 7-9; Item  4 at 17-18.)
There is no  documentation  from  any  court or law  enforcement agency  in the  record
to support Applicant’s statements regarding the disposition of  any of these offenses.
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  G, Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he consumes intoxicants to excess. Applicant admitted this allegation.
Applicant had previously admitted to the facts of the  four alcohol-related arrests
described  under  subparagraphs  1.a,  1.d,  1.f,  and  1.g.  He  stated  in  his  responses  to
Interrogatories that he stopped drinking in April 2021 after his last DUI arrest.  As noted
above,  he  has  successfully  completed  a  drug  and  alcohol  education  and  treatment
program. (Item 1 at 7-9; Item 4 at 17-18.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has falsified material facts during the clearance screening process. Applicant
admitted both allegations under this paragraph with explanations.
Applicant  submitted   an   e-QIP   on   May   29,  2020.  (Item   3.)  Section   22   of  that
questionnaire  concerns Applicant’s Police  Record. As  a preliminary  matter it states, “For
this section  report information  regardless of  whether the  record  in your case  has been
sealed,  expunged,   or   otherwise  stricken   from   the   court  record,   or  the   charge   was
dismissed.”
3.a. One subpart of that section asked Applicant to set forth criminal conduct within
seven years of the date of the questionnaire. The question asked specifically whether he
had received a summons, citation, or ticket. It also asked whether he had been charged,
convicted, or sentenced of a crime. Applicant answered, “No.” This was a false answer to
relevant questions about Applicant’s criminal history. Applicant stated  in  his Answer, “I
admit, but thought question was asking for unreported arrests.” (Item 1 at 5.)
3.b.   A   second   subpart  of  Section   22   asked   Applicant,  in   part,   “Have   you   EVER
been convicted  of an offense involving domestic violence or a crime  of violence (such  as
battery  or assault) against  your  . .  .  cohabitant,  spouse  or legally  recognized  civil union
domestic partner”  and,  “Have  you  EVER  been  charged  with  any  offense  involving  alcohol
or  drugs?”  (All   emphasis  in  original.)  Applicant  answered,   “No.”  This  was  also  a   false
answer to  relevant questions concerning  Applicant’s criminal history. Applicant stated  in
his  Answer,  “I  admit,  but  thought  this  was  asking   for  any   unreported.  Everything   was
reported to my supervisor at time  of  arrest.” (Item 1 at 5.)
