In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all 18 allegations under Guideline
F, and all 3 allegations under Guideline H. His admissions are incorporated in my findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  warehouse  identification  production  specialist  for  a
defense contractor since January 2000. He has held a security clearance since joining
the company. He is married and has two minor children. He earned a bachelor’s degree
in May 2013. (FORM Item 3 at 11, 34, 15, and 18.)
Applicant has 16 delinquent debts totaling over $45,000. The debts are established
by credit reports in the record. (FORM Items 8 and 9). The delinquent debts consist mostly
of student loans in a default status. In 2018, his wages were garnished for failure to pay
his student loans. He lists federal income tax indebtedness for each year he failed to file
his income tax returns. When his mortgage interest rate increased he was unable to meet
the increased payments and his home was foreclosed in 2013. (FORM Item 3 at 36-44.)
The specific debts in the SOR are detailed as follows:
SOR ¶¶  1.a-1f, 1.h-1.j, and 1.l-1.m: are  past-due federal student  loan accounts
with   the   Department  of   Education,  totaling  a   combined  $51,915.  Applicant  admits
these debts and states that they are being paid through wage garnishment.
SOR ¶  1.g:  past-due account  charged off in the  amount  of  $4,506. Applicant
admits the allegation. The debt is the remainder of his auto loan. His car was totaled in
the DUI and his insurance settlement did not cover the remainder of his loan. He stopped
making payments because of his other debts. (Form Item 12 at 5.)
SOR  ¶   1.k:   past-due  account   charged  off  in  the   amount   of   $849.  Applicant
admits the allegation. (Form Item 9 at 2.)
SOR  ¶   1.n: past-due account  with   a   balance   of   $4,109. Applicant admits  the
allegation. He did not list the debt on his SCA because he was unaware of it until he was
confronted by the investigator during his PSI. (Form Item 12 at 3.)
SOR  ¶   1.o: past-due account  with   a   balance   of   $2,785. Applicant admits  the
allegation. He did not list the debt on his SCA because he was unaware of it until he was
confronted by the investigator during his PSI. (Form Item 12 at 3.)
SOR  ¶   1.p: past-due account  with   a   balance   of   $1,333. Applicant admits  the
allegation. The debt is from a credit card. He stopped making payments because of his
other debt. (FORM Item 12 at 4.)
Applicant has been relying on wage garnishment to resolve the student loan debts
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f, 1.h-1.j, and 1.l-1.m. While he stated he would investigate and
start payments on the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.k and 1.n-1.p, there is no documented
evidence of  a repayment plan for the debts or that he had disputed  the debts  with  his
creditors.  (FORM Items 2 and 12)
Applicant failed to timely file his federal and state income tax returns for tax years
2013 through 2017, as required. (SOR ¶¶ 1.q and 1.r) In his SCA, he attributed his failure
to file the returns and pay the taxes to “missing documents and information necessary to
file.” (FORM Item  3 at 37.) He states he turned over all documents  and information  in
December 2018 to a tax preparer to get current. (FORM Item 3 at 37-38.) He lists federal
income tax indebtedness for each year he failed to file his income tax returns. He provided
no evidence of a repayment plan with the IRS. In his answer to the SOR, he stated he
had filed his past-due federal and state income tax returns alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.q and 1.r.
were  “up  to  date.”  However,  he  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM.  Thus,  there  is  no
documentary record evidence to establish that the returns alleged have been filed.
The Guideline H allegations all stem from the same set of circumstances. First, on
New  Year’s  Eve  2017,  Applicant  ingested  a  marijuana  gummy  bear  as  part  of  a  drink
served at a friend’s New Year’s Eve party. (FORM Item 12 at 1.)(SOR ¶ 2.a) Second, he
used an Ambien pill later that evening when he was unable to sleep. The  Ambien had
been prescribed to his late mother, and not to him. (FORM Item 12 at 1.)(SOR ¶ 2.b) He
admits both the marijuana use and the Ambien use occurred while he held a clearance.
Third, later that night, in the early morning hours of New Year’s Day 2018, he was arrested
and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  (DUI)  of  liquor,  drugs,  or  a  combination
(Ambien).  (SOR  ¶  2.c)  He  explained  that  he  had  no  memory  of  how  the  incident
happened, before speaking with a police officer about his car being in a neighbor’s yard.
Applicant was subsequently convicted of the charge. He was sentenced to a 180-day jail
term  (179  days  suspended),  placed  on  12  months  of  probation,  ordered  to  attend
substance abuse education, and fined $1,800. (FORM Item 3 at 30 and FORM Item 11
at  4.)  (SOR  ¶  2.c)  He  confessed  to  the  investigator  in  his  interview  he  had  failed  to
complete the court-ordered drug treatment program. (FORM Item 12 at 2.)
Applicant disclosed his New Year’s Eve 2017 marijuana use on his SCA. He also
listed  the  friend  who  hosted  the  party  where  he  was  provided  the  marijuana  as  a
reference. He also said stated it would be the “last time using that.” (FORM Item 3 at 32
and FORM Item 12 at 1.)
As noted, Applicant disclosed the Ambien use and subsequent DUI on his SCA;
discussed the events  in  his PSI; and admitted  them  in his Answer to  the SOR, but he
provided  no  more  subsequent  evidence  in  mitigation,  since  he  did  not  respond  to  the
FORM.
