Applicant, age 42, is married with one 18-year-old child. The record did not indicate
his education background. He has not served in the military. This is his first application
for a security clearance. (Item 2)
The SOR alleged six delinquent debts totaling $57,000, including a $41,110 past-
due mortgage account in foreclosure status. In his Answer, Applicant admitted all but one
(SOR ¶ 1.c/$386) of the alleged debts, without explanation. His admitted debts totaled
$56,614. Applicant’s March 2021 credit bureau report (CBR) corroborated SOR ¶ 1.c. His
September 2021 CBR reported the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f as a paid charge-off with a
$0  balance.  He  paid  an  amount  not  indicated  in  the  record  to  settle  that  debt  (with  a
reported balance of $8,677) for less than the full balance. (Item 4, 5)
Applicant promised to investigate and make payment arrangements to resolve his
indebtedness during his March 2021 and April 2021 security clearance interviews (SIs).
Because he did not proffer any explanations in his Answer or respond to the FORM, there
is no information in the record to confirm whether he followed through on those promises
or otherwise resolved the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e. (Item 3)
During his SIs, Applicant acknowledged that he had been experiencing financial
problems for a little over a year, including a mortgage loan, a car loan, and a credit-card
account  that  had  become  delinquent.  He  attributed  those  delinquent  accounts  to  a
reduction of income due to a job change and to a lack of income. He did not proffer any
further details about his income or expense history during his SIs. (Item 3)
Applicant reported the following employment history on his SCA: 1) employed full
time from September 2010 through March 2016, when he was laid off due to “economic
down turn;” 2) employed1 full time from March 2016 through October 2019, when he was
1 On his SCA, Applicant referenced this employment as  “self-employment,” but also provided the following
reason why he left this employment: “Laid off due to economic down turn.” The record did not address this
discrepancy.
laid  off  due  to  “economic  down  turn;”  and  3)  employed  by  Defense  Contractor  A  from
October 2019 through [then] present. The administrative record indicates that Applicant
is no longer employed by Defense Contractor A. He was employed by Defense Contractor
A when he signed the receipt for the SOR in March 2022. As of October 2022, he appears
to be employed by Defense Contractor B, who is his current sponsor. There is no other
information in the record to indicate the dates he separated from Defense Contractor A
or  began  his  employment  with  Defense  Contractor  B,  including  the  reason  for  the
separation or any resulting unemployment. (Item 2)
During  his  March  2021  SI,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  answered  “no”  to  all
questions about his financial record on his SCA because he was embarrassed. While he
claimed that he had no knowledge of the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.d and
1.f, he admitted that he had been delinquent on the aforementioned credit-card account
(SOR ¶ 1.a), mortgage loan (SOR ¶ 1.e), and a car loan that was not alleged. Since the
SOR did not allege facts involving Applicant’s failure to disclose any delinquent debts on
his SCA, I will consider it only to evaluate mitigation and the whole person.
During the March 2021 SI, Applicant maintained that he had taken action to resolve
his indebtedness beginning in about February 2021. He claimed that he paid off the past-
due balance of the car loan (for his truck) and a credit-card account (not SOR ¶ 1.a). He
explained  that  the  truck  had  been  repossessed  in  about  November  2020  due  to  his
monthly payments being about  90  days  late in  the approximate amount of  $1,800.  He
claimed after he made a payment to bring the loan account current in February 2021, he
was able to retain his truck. He did not proffer any details about the credit-card account.
(Item 3)
The March 2021 CBR corroborated that Applicant paid an amount not indicated in
the record to settle a credit-card account (with a reported balance of $360) for less than
the  full  balance.  It  also  corroborated  that  he  brought  the  90-day  delinquent  car  loan
current  and  that  the  account  was  then  in  good  standing.  The  September  2021  CBR
confirmed that he had then remained current on the car loan. (Items 3, 4)
During the March 2021 SI, Applicant promised to pay more attention to what credit
cards he had and to reduce their balances. He acknowledged that his financial situation
could be a lot better and anticipated that it would improve once he had a handle on what
needs  to be paid.  He asserted that he  wanted to  get out of  debt and intended to start
working on paying off accounts to get caught up with his bills. He averred that there is no
reason for anyone to question his ability or willingness to repay his debts or live within his
means. (Item 3)
Applicant also  answered  “no” to  the  questions in police  record section  on  his SCA,
including  whether he  had  ever been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol or  drugs.
The   police   record   section   included   the   instruction:   “For  this  section   report   information
regardless of  whether the  record in  your case  has been  sealed,  expunged,  or otherwise
stricken  from  the  court  record, or the  charge  was dismissed.” During  his March 2021  SI,
Applicant confirmed  his “no” responses. After being   confronted, he   agreed  that he  had
been  charged  in January  2000  with  driving  under the  influence  (DUI). He explained  that
he  pled  no  contest  to  the  charge  for  which  he  received  a  deferred  disposition.  Upon
successfully completing the terms of his  six-month probation, the case was dismissed.
He maintained that he did not report the DUI on his SCA because he thought it had been
expunged from his record once it had been dismissed. (Item 2, 3)
