Applicant is a 67-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  June  2021.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  awarded  in  1976
and a master’s degree awarded in 1983. He is married with five adult children. (Item 2)
The  SOR alleges seven  delinquent debts totaling  about $65,700. The  debts are
established  through  Applicant’s admissions  and  a  January  2022  credit report. (Items 1-
6)
Raising five children was an expensive process, and the balances on Applicant’s
credit  cards  and  loans  slowly  increased.  He  was  able  to  keep  the  debts  current  until
about  2017,  when  his  son  defaulted  on  a  student  loan  that  Applicant  cosigned.  That
caused the interests rates on Applicant’s  credit cards to rise; he was no longer able to
keep them current; and a number of debts became delinquent. (Items 1-6)
Applicant  consulted   with   a   debt-settlement  company,  but  the  monthly   payments
on   their   debt-repayment  plan   were  more  than   he   could  afford.  He   consulted   with   an
attorney  on  two  occasions about filing  a  Chapter 13  bankruptcy  case, but his wife  was
“dead   set   against  filing   for bankruptcy.”  He also  received   counseling  from the   attorney
about  “other   aspects   of   dealing   with   a   debt   situation.”   He   decided   that   he   would   “let
each  creditor file  suit  against  [him]  and  deal with  them  on  an  as-needed, first-come-first-
served basis.”  (Items 1, 4; AE A)
Applicant was sued by several creditors. A bank sued him for about $2,000 owed
on a credit card. In January 2021, he settled the matter for $1,273, which he paid that
same  month.  A  credit  union  sued  him  for  about  $27,000  owed  on  a  credit  card  and
personal loan. In April 2021, he settled the matter for $18,000, which he paid the same
month. (Items 2-6) These two debts were not alleged in the SOR.
A bank sued Applicant for about $23,800 owed on a credit card (SOR ¶ 1.b). He
settled  the  matter  for  $14,500,  payable  in  monthly  payments  of  $604,  starting  in  April
2021 and ending in March 2023. (Items 1-6) I am satisfied that Applicant has made the
monthly  payments,  and  he  will  continue  to  make  them  until  the  settlement  amount  is
paid in full.
A collection company sued Applicant for about $3,150 that was originally owed to
a bank (SOR ¶ 1.f). He agreed to settle the matter for $1,550, payable in full in February
2021. He did not pay the settlement amount because he was short of funds that month.
He stated that the “debt collector seems to have forgotten about it, since they’ve never
contacted  [him]  since  to  ask  where  the  payment  was  or  to  schedule  a  new  payment
date. When they do [he] will send them the negotiated settlement amount.” (Items 1-6)
Applicant has not paid any of the remaining SOR debts, and he does not intend
to  pay  them.  He  indicated  that  he  would  have  found  a  way  to  settle  the  debts  if  the
creditors  had  filed  a  lawsuit,  but  they  never  bothered  to  file  suit.  He  stated  that  the
three-year statute of limitations has passed, which means that he “cannot be sued and
the  debt  becomes  uncollectable,  leaving  no  incentive  to  settle  any  longer.  Without  a
court judgement, [his] wages cannot be garnished, [his] bank accounts cannot be levied
and  no  liens  can  be  placed  on  [his]  property.”  He  stated  that  because  the  debts  are
uncollectable, there is “no basis for coercion or compromise.” (Items 1-6; AE A)
Applicant  stated  that  his  current  financial  situation  is  stable  and  strong.  He  has
over  $45,000  available  in  credit  on  his  home  equity  line  of  credit.  In  addition  to  his
salary, he receives $1,000 per month in pension from a previous employer, and $2,934
per month in Social Security benefits. (Items 1, 4)
Applicant  cites  the  following  as  the  investigator’s  comments  in  the  report  of
investigation  of  his  background  interview:  “Subject’s  civil  suits  cannot  be  used  for
blackmail”;  and  “There  is nothing  in  Subject’s  background  to  include  any  of  the  above
discussed  information  that  could  be  used  to  blackmail  or  coerce  him.”  (Item  3;  AE  A)
Those are not the  investigator’s comments;  they  are the  investigator’s summarizations
of Applicant’s answers to the investigator’s questions.
