Applicant  admitted  all the SOR  allegations, but disputed  certain facts  alleged  in
each  allegation.  I  have  incorporated  his  admissions  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 58 years old. He has been married three times and to his current wife
since 2004. He has five adult children and two adult stepchildren. He served in the Army
National Guard from 1982 to 1987 and received an honorable discharge. He has been an
owner-operator truck driver since 2005 and works for federal contractors.
The  SOR  alleges  three  delinquent  debts.  They  are  corroborated  by  Applicant’s
admissions  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  statements  to  a  government  investigator,
statements in his response to the FORM, and credit reports from November 2018, August
2019, March 2021 and April 2022. (Items 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8; AE E)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in May 2019. He told the
investigator he was unaware of the consumer account in SOR ¶ 1.a ($19,691) and did
not know when it became delinquent, but acknowledged he did not earn enough money
at the time to pay the monthly payments. He acknowledged receiving a collection notice
in the mail and had set up a payment plan with the creditor in March 2019 and was making
monthly payments of $1,512. He anticipated the account would be resolved in January
2020. He told the investigator he was complying with the payment plan. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the account  in ¶ 1.a, but disputed
the balance owed. He said the balance owed was $13,627, and believed he had paid it,
so he disputed it on his credit report. He said he contacted the original creditor and they
could not find his account. In his response to the FORM, Applicant explained that he had
learned that his monthly payments were being paid to the collection company and at some
point that company was no longer holding the debt and a new collection company held it.
Applicant  was  unaware  that  this  transfer  of  collection  companies  happened,  and  he
believed he had paid the debt. He then contacted the original creditor who confirmed that
his monthly payments were applied to the original balance and his current balance was
$13,627. Applicant provided a June 2022 letter from the new collection company agreeing
to settle the account for $7,000. He also provided confirmation that he paid the settlement
amount and the debt is resolved. (Items 2, 4, AE C, E, G)
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.b ($18,960) is a consumer debt. Applicant acknowledged to
the government investigator that he owed the debt, but could not recall when it became
delinquent, but it was because he was not earning enough money to pay it. He said he
had received a collection notice in the mail. He said he had paid the debt in May 2019. In
his response to the FORM, he stated that he had disputed the debt on his credit report.
He contacted the collection company that held the debt and was advised the debt was
paid. He provided a June 2022 letter confirming the debt was settled for less than the full
amount and there is a zero balance owed. The debt is resolved. (Items 2, 4, AE H)
The debt in SOR  ¶ 1.c ($10,652) is for medical services that were in collection.
Applicant’s  March  2021  and  April  2022  credit  reports  show  the  account  as  delinquent
since  May  2018  with  no  payments  made.  In  his  SOR  answer,  he  stated  that  he  was
unaware he owed the medical debt and believed his insurance had covered his medical
expenses. He said when he learned of the debt from his SOR, he paid it immediately.
Applicant provided documentary proof that he paid it on May 10, 2022, the date of the
SOR. The debt is resolved. (Items 2, 7, 8; AE D)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he stated that he is living within his means
and is not overextended. His wife is paying closer attention to their finances, and he will
ensure  they  never  get  behind  in  their  payments  or  financial  obligations  again.  He  has
learned that if he disagrees with a debt, he will contact the creditor and find out its status.
The  three  delinquent  debts  were  an  aberration,  and  he  and  his  wife  will  be  diligent  in
reviewing  their  credit  reports  to  make  sure  it  does  not  happen  again.  Applicant  has
recently paid off the mortgage on his home, four years before the loan matured, and he
has a significant sum in savings. (Item 2; AE E, J, K)
