Applicant is 30 years old. He has never been married and has a seven-year-old
son. He received a high school diploma in November 2010. He has worked as an aircraft
electrician for his current employer, a DOD contractor, since September 2019. This is his
first security clearance application. (Items 3-4)
The SOR alleges that Applicant has eight delinquent debts totaling approximately
$24,193. He admitted all SOR allegations and indicated he was “working on” paying off
his  delinquent  debts,  but  he  did  not  provide  details.  He  asked  “How  do  I  go  by  [sic]
providing  you  guys  with  proof  of  me  taking  responsibility  of  me  [sic]  debt.”  He  did  not
provide supporting documentation in his response to the SOR, nor did he respond to the
FORM. (Items 1-2)
In Applicant’s October 2019 SCA, he disclosed some of the debts alleged in the
SOR. “I am financially unstable at the moment, I have been trying to pay off other bills I
have  fallen  behind  [sic],  such  as  rent,  utility  bills,  etc.”  He  indicated  his  debts  became
delinquent after he lost his job in 2017 for time-card fraud. He was also terminated from
an employer in August 2019, due to insubordination. (Item 3)
In  December  2017,  Applicant  responded  to  DCSA  CAF  interrogatories.  He  was
asked to provide the status of each of the debts that were ultimately alleged in the SOR.
He  responded  that  he  had  not  paid  any  of  the  delinquent  debts,  made  payment
arrangements, or was making payments, nor did he provide documentation showing the
status  or  proof  of  payments  for  any  of  the  alleged  debts.  He  provided  a  document
demonstrating that in September 2021, he resolved a delinquent debt, making payments
totaling $1,739; however, the account number for the original creditor and the collection
agency do not match any of the SOR allegations. There is no evidence in the record that
he has resolved or is resolving any of the debts alleged in the SOR. (Items 2-7)
Applicant’s monthly net income is $1,525, and his monthly expenses total $1,814.
He has no savings or other assets. There is no evidence that he has sought or received
financial counseling. (Items 3-7)
