After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  47  years  old,  married  twice  and  divorced  twice.  The  most  recent
divorce was in October 2016. He has two adult stepsons and one adult son. He enlisted
in the United States Marine Corps and served on active duty from September 1994 until
his honorable discharge  in  April 2002.  From  July 2003  to August  2004,  he  attended  a
technical school. Due to a lay-off, he was unemployed from October 2016 until May 2017.
His 2016 divorce, which led to alimony and child support obligations, also contributed to
his financial problems. (Item 3.) Since May 2017, he has been employed by a defense
contractor  that  is  also  his  sponsor.  (Item  3;  Response.)  Neither  the  Government  nor
Applicant offered any explanation for the nearly two-year delay between the issuance of
the SOR and Applicant’s Answer. The Government did not object to Applicant’s delay in
Answering the SOR.
In  Applicant’s  Response,  he  submitted  documents  from  a  credit  repair  agency
showing that two unalleged debts had been paid in full. The first debt stated no amount.
The  second  debt  was  settled for  $587  on  a balance  due  of  $1,467.  Those  resolutions
were accomplished in February and March 2021, respectively.  (Response.)
The SOR alleged five delinquent debts either charged off or in collection totaling
$56,452. (Item 1.) All five of  the SOR debts are supported by the December 15, 2018
credit report. (Item 4.). Only SOR ¶ 1.d. appears on the March 7, 2022 credit report, which
is the most recent report. The other four SOR debts are not reported on the most recent
report. (Item 5.) Applicant admitted all allegations, with brief comments that are discussed
below. (Item 2.)
SOR  ¶ 1.a. is  an account  in  collection for $116.  (Item  1.)  Applicant’s  admission
stated: “Account has been satisfied.” (Item 2.) He provided a cancelled check showing he
paid this in full. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b. is an account in collection for $4,024. (Item 1.) This account was in
dispute.  (Item  4.)  Applicant’s  admission  stated:  “Account  has  been  satisfied.” (Item  2.)
Applicant’s credit repair agency’s document indicates that he did not pay the debt, rather
the  debt was successfully  disputed  on  the  basis  that the  collection  agency was unable to
verify the account. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.c.  is an  account  in  collection  for $282.  (Item  1.) Applicant’s admission
stated: “Account has been satisfied.” (Item 2.) Applicant submitted a document that shows
this account was paid in full ($282) in September 2020. (Response.) This debt has been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d. is an account charged off for $51,825. (Item 1.) Applicant’s admission
stated:  “Account  amount  has  been  lowered.”  (Item  2.)  Applicant  submitted  a  March  3,
2021 document from his credit repair agency that the creditor agreed to “adjust account
balance.”  (Response.)  The  most  recent  credit  report  confirms  a  reduced  balance  of
$41,876. (Item 5.) He stated: “The only thing I have not paid is [Bank D] and that is do
[sic] to them writing the debt off.” This debt’s balance has been reduced by $9,949.
SOR  ¶ 1.e. is an  account  in  collection  for $205.  (Item  1.) Applicant’s admission
stated:  “Account  has  been  satisfied.”  (Item  2.)  Applicant  submitted  a  May  5,  2022
document that shows the account settled for less than full balance ($151). (Response.)
This debt has been resolved.
Four of the five SOR debts went into collections between August 2016 and October
2017 and the fifth joining in December 2018. (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision. The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate   poor  self-control,
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of personnel security  concern such  as  excessive  gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially   overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate  funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by  Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit reports. AG ¶¶  19(a) and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially
applicable:
(a)   the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely  to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment;
(b)   the  conditions that  resulted  in  the  financial problem were largely  beyond
the   person's  control  (e.g.,   loss  of   employment,   a   business  downturn,
unexpected  medical emergency, a  death,  divorce or separation, clear
victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,   or identity   theft), and   the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
(d)  the   individual  initiated   and   is   adhering   to   a   good   faith   effort  to   repay
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;  and,
(e)  the   individual  has   a   reasonable  basis  to   dispute   the   legitimacy   of   the
past-due  debt  .  .  . and  provides evidence  of actions to  resolve  the  issue.
The  next  inquiry  is  whether  any  mitigating  conditions  apply.  At  the  outset,  the
Appeals Board  has  consistently held that an applicant  is not  required  to resolve  every
debt alleged in the SOR. Nor is there a requirement that SOR debts be resolved first. An
applicant need only show by his actions his efforts to resolve debts. See, e.g., ISCR Case
No. 07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008).
Applicant’s SOR debts occurred between 2016 and 2018. That is not so long ago.
Nor were those debts infrequent. Because of the frequency and recency of the debts, AG
¶ 20(a) does not mitigate his debts.
Most of Applicant’s financial problems had their inception between 2016 and 2018,
which  coincided  with  a  number  of  unfortunate  developments  in  his  personal  and
professional life. In October 2016, he was laid off. The ensuing unemployment lasted until
May  2017.  His  divorce  led  to  obligations  for  alimony  and  child  support.  Those  are
conditions  “largely  beyond  [his]  control,”  within  the  contemplation  of  AG  ¶  20(b).  That
does not, however, end the inquiry.
AG  ¶  20(b)  requires  that  Applicant  act  “responsibly”  under  the  adverse
circumstances he confronted. In this case, he retained a credit repair agency.  The record
shows that the agency was instrumental in resolving SOR ¶¶ 1.b. (a successful dispute).
In addition, the agency had Applicant’s largest creditor (SOR ¶ 1.d.) reduce the balance
due by almost $10,000 (from $51,825).  The record suggests that Applicant was unable
to  pay this latter debt, because  it  had  been charged  off.  The  law does  not  require  the
doing of futile acts. Ohio v. Roberts, U.S. 56 (1980).  I find that AG ¶¶ 20(b) and (e) apply.
The   record   shows  Applicant’s  pattern  of  resolving   his  SOR  debts.  He  paid  or
settled  SOR ¶¶  1.a.,  c.,  and  e.  Plus,  he  resolved  two  unalleged  debts. AG ¶  20(d) applies.
The Whole-Person Concept
Under  AG  ¶  2(a),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept.  AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9)
(explaining  the  “whole-person”  concept  and  factors).  In  my  analysis,  I  considered  the
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole-person concept in light
of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case. I have also considered favorably
that Applicant volunteered  two  unalleged  debts that he  resolved.   See  ISCR  Case  No.  03-
20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006).
Applicant  leaves  me  with  no  questions  about  his  eligibility  and  suitability  for  a
security clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has provided sufficient evidence
to mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
FOR  APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  1.e.:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented,  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
