Applicant, age 29, is not married and has no children. She graduated from high
school in June 2010. Applicant attended a technical school in May 2011, and she received
a diploma with a concentration in Pharmacy Technician. She has worked for her current
employer as an IT specialist since February 2021. (Item 7)  She served in the active duty
military  U.S.  Navy  from  October  2013  to  December  2013.  She  received  an  honorable
discharge.  (medical  separation)  Applicant  reported  some  unemployment  in  2013, and
July 2010 to April 2011.  (Item 3) Applicant obtained a security clearance in 2013.
The Statement of Reasons (SOR) sets forth  security concerns under Guideline F.
The   SOR  ¶¶1.a   through   1.h   under  Guideline   F  (Financial  Considerations)  lists   eight
delinquent  debts   totaling   approximately   $25,780.   (Items   4,  5, 6)   The  delinquent   debts
include  consumer accounts, medical accounts,  and  an  automobile  that is a  charged-off-
account.   In   her   Answer  to   the   SOR,   Applicant  denied   all   but  three   accounts  totaling
$21,746.00. The  five  remaining  delinquent accounts total $4,034. (Item  2)  She  provided
no explanations at that time.
In  her  2021  subject  interview,  Applicant  responded  to  questioning  concerning
Applicant‘s  financial  delinquencies  on  her  credit  reports.  Applicant  stated  that  some
accounts were disputed, and others were paid or settled, or in a payment arrangement.
(Item 7) She also discussed other delinquent accounts that she did not recall. Applicant
explained that for the remaining consumer and medical accounts listed on the SOR, she
had  no  knowledge  of  them.  (Item  7)  In  essence,  she  provided  no  explanation  for  her
indebtedness. She stated that she would look into all the accounts
There  is  no  information  in  the  record  concerning  Applicant’s  annual  income  or
budget. It does not appear that she has sought financial counseling. She did not report
any circumstances beyond her control. She told the investigator that “she does not live
beyond her means, does not spend frivolously, and has good pay.”  (Item 7) She listed
three trips abroad for tourism on her SCA. The trips occurred in 2017, 2018, and 2019.
(Item 3)
As  to  SOR  1.a,  a  medical  account  for  collection  in  the  amount  of  $152,  and  a
medical account in SOR 1.b, for $130, Applicant claimed that they were both paid. She
provided documentation regarding both accounts showing she paid  the amounts due on
June 6, 2022 with a credit card. (Response to FORM)
As to SOR 1.c, a collection account in the amount of $401, Applicant disputed this
account and provided documentation that the account was researched and deleted from
Applicant’s credit report.
As to SOR 1.d, a past-due account in the amount of $2,729, with a total balance
of $29,349, Applicant stated that the account was removed from her credit report due to
a reporting error.
As to SOR 1.e, Applicant admitted that this charged-off account for a vehicle in the
amount of $20,830, is not resolved. Applicant claimed that she is saving and working with
a  credit specialist  to  reach a settlement agreement.  (Response  to FORM)  She did not
provide documentation.
As  to  SOR  1.f,  a  collection  account  for  a  cell  phone  in  the  amount  of  $622,
Applicant stated that it was settled for $249. She at first disputed the account. Applicant
provided an agreement but it does not show that any amounts were paid. (Response to
FORM)
As to SOR 1.g, a medical account in the amount of $521, Applicant admitted the
debt in her answer but in her investigative interview, she stated that she had no idea what
it  was  and  then  in her FORM response  she stated  that  it  had  been  removed from  her
credit report. She did not provide any receipt for payment.
As  to  SOR  1.h,  a  medical  account  in  the  amount  of  $395,  she  admitted  the
delinquent account and  in  her Response  to FORM that  it  had been  removed from her
credit report.
Applicant acknowledged her delinquent debts and takes responsibility and wants
to  resolve  them  to  the  best  of  her  ability.  She  loves  the  last  eight  years  that  she  has
worked at DOD. She states that she pays her taxes, has no criminal history and fulfills
her contractual duties at work.
