Applicant is 50 years old.  He is married and has no children.  He has a Master’s
degree in Information Security.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Systems
Administrator  III.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  April  2020.
In  his
answer, Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR under each of the
three guidelines set forth below.
Guideline F: Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
In  February  2020,  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy.  (See  Government
Exhibit 2.)  The debts listed in the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy were discharged in July 2020.
A  Credit  report  of  the  Applicant  dated  February  1,  2022,  confirms  this  bankruptcy.
(Government  Exhibit  3.)  Applicant  explained  that  he  had  a  seizure  at  work  in
September 2019, and lost his job.  He could no longer afford to pay the household bills.
(Tr. p. 68.)  He is the sole financial provider of the household, as his wife does not work
outside of the home.  The bills discharged were mainly credit cards that he was able to
pay  when  he  was  employed.  Some  debt  that  was  discharged  were  his  wife’s  credit
cards that he did not know about.  He managed to keep the house and his student loan
debt.
Applicant currently has no delinquent debt.  He pays his bills on time, and lives
within his means.  He now uses a computer program to help him with his budget when
he  pays  his  monthly  expenses.  He  now  has  money  in  his  bank  account,  and  three
401(k) accounts where he is saving for retirement.
Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption
The  Government alleges that Applicant engages in excessive  alcohol consumption
that  can  lead  to  the  exercise  of questionable  judgment or the  failure  to  control  impulses,
and can  raise questions about his reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of alcohol consumption that began as an adolescent and
has  continued
legal  and  occupational
consequences.  Applicant began consuming alcohol at sixteen years of age.  He states
that  he  usually  consumes  beer.  Over  the  years, he  has encountered  problems  at  the
into  adulthood,  despite
there  being
work  place  and  outside  of  work  from  his  excessive  alcohol  consumption.  He  was
arrested in 1992, 1993, and 1997, for Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants (DUI).
Applicant  does  not  recall  the  exact  dates  or  all  of  the  circumstances  of  the  arrests.
(Government Exhibits 5, 6, and 7.)
Applicant testified  that following  his second  arrest for DUI,  the  court  ordered  him
to  attend  Alcoholics  Anonymous (AA) meetings for 90  days, at least once  a  week.  (Tr.
p. 30.)  He  remembers  that after his first and  second  DUI,  he  was able to  stop  drinking
for  at   least   a   month.    (Tr.  p.  31.)    Regarding   his  third   DUI  in  1997,   he   really   has  no
memory  of  it.   He does know  that  the  court  sentenced  him  to   complete  90  days of  AA
meetings again,  and  that he  was placed  on  probation  for a  period  of time.   Following  all
three   arrests  for  DUI,   his   driver’s  license   was  also  revoked.     After  the   first  DUI,   his
license  was revoked  for 30  days;  after the  second  DUI,  his license  was revoked  for 90
days;  and  following the third DUI, his license  was revoked  for one year.  (Tr.  pp. 32-33.)
Applicant testified  that  while  working  for  a defense  contractor  from  2007  to  2015,
he  was reported  on  two  occasions by  two  different individuals because  they  could  smell
alcohol   on   his   breath   at  work.    He   was  warned   that  if  it   kept  happening,  he   would  be
subject   to   disciplinary   action,   up   to   and   including   termination.     (Tr.  p.  36.)     Applicant
admits   that   he   had   been   drinking   prior  to   coming   to   work  on   the   days  that   his  breath
smelled  of  alcohol.  (Tr. p. 37.)   He  was drinking  on  average  about  a  six-pack to  a  12-
pack of beer every other day, but did not  feel impaired by his drinking.  (Tr. p. 39.)
In  November  2018,  Applicant  was  working  for  another  employer.  On  this
occasion,  he  was  sent  home  from  work  because  alcohol  was  detected  on  his  breath.
Applicant  believes  that  he  had  consumed  three  beers  before  going  to  work  that  day.
(Tr. p. 41.)  For about a month, from  November 2018 to  December 2018, he received
counseling  treatment  for  his  alcohol  abuse.  Applicant  stated  that  he  met  with  a
psychiatrist for half hour sessions.  He did not find their discussions overly helpful, as it
appeared to him that the psychiatrist seemed more concerned with other things.  (Tr. p.
42.)  Applicant was able to abstain from drinking alcohol for about two months following
the work incident.  (Tr. p. 43.)
It  was  not  until  March  2019,  that  Applicant  realized  that  he  had  a  real  drinking
problem and needed help.  He knew that he was drinking heavily, consuming between
6-10 drinks on a daily basis.  Through his Employee Assistance Program, he voluntarily
sought  out  help  for  his  alcohol  problem.  He  was  concerned  that  his  drinking  heavily
might be related to his depression.  (Government Exhibit 8.)
In March 2019, Applicant was called into work when he had been drinking earlier
that  day  at  home.  He  believes  that  he  had  consumed  about  five  or  six  beers  before
going to work that day.  Applicant arrived at work and smelled of alcohol.  His employer
required  him  to  take  a  breathalyzer.  Applicant  registered  a  blood  alcohol  content  of
0.167%.  Applicant was terminated from his job.  (Tr. pp. 43-44.)
Applicant entered a 30-day inpatient treatment program for alcohol abuse.  From
March 2019 to April 2019, he received intense treatment for alcohol abuse.  During this
treatment  program,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  dependence,  in  remission.
Applicant  had  one-on-one  sessions  with  his  therapist,  attended  counseling  meetings,
and  participated  in  all  aspects  of  the  program  as  required.  He  was  able  to  maintain
complete sobriety for 100 days.  (Tr. p. 46, and Government Exhibit 9.)
Applicant  stated  that  following  his  in-patient  treatment  program,  he  was
unemployed,  depressed  and  drinking  again.  From  September  through  October  2019,
he was unemployed.  He testified that he was not consuming much beer because food
and bills came first and money was scarce.  (Tr. p. 49.)
He  last  consumed  alcohol  about  a  week  before  the  hearing.  (Tr.  p.  49.)  He
consumed  a  couple  shots  of  Jim  Beam  and  two  beers.  (Tr.  p.  55.)  In  the  last  three
months,  Applicant  consumed  alcohol  about  once  or  twice  a  week.  He  usually
consumes four or five beers on each occasion.  Applicant testified that he was told by
his primary physician that he should stop drinking.
Applicant was referred for evaluation to determine if he may have a condition or
diagnosis,  which  if  left  untreated  may  disqualify  him  from  being  eligible  to  access
classified information.  During the evaluation by the psychologist on December 7, 2021,
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder  moderate/severe.  This  evaluation
was  obtained  through  an  interview  with  the  Applicant,  a  comprehensive  review  of  all
medical  records  and  supporting  records  provided  by  the  DODCAF  or  his  security
manager.  (Government Exhibit 8.)
Guideline I: Psychological Conditions
The  Government  alleges
that  Applicant  has  an  emotional,  mental,  and
personality condition that can impair judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.  Applicant
admits the allegation set forth under this allegation.
Applicant’s  evaluation  discussed  above  also  determined  that  Applicant  was
diagnosed  with  an  unspecified  depressive  disorder.  Results  of  the  personality
assessment  indicated  that  he  may  be  vulnerable  to  self-criticism,  uncertainty  and
indecisiveness during periods of stress.  The evaluator also stated that Applicant’s long
history of alcohol abuse with a lack of sustained abstinence inherently brings risk to his
judgment and reliability.  (Government Exhibit 8.)
