Applicant is 40 years old. He is married and has two daughters, ages 10 and 12.
He has a bachelor’s degree (2005). Since April 2019, he has been employed by a defense
contractor. (Item 5.)
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) used marijuana on various
occasions between at least June 1996 and June 2021; and (2) intends to continue to use
marijuana  in  the  future.  (Item  1.)  He  admitted  the  Guideline  H  allegations,  with
explanations.  He has had three knee surgeries, and the resulting arthritis  causes him
considerable pain and discomfort. Opioids are typically prescribed for his kind of pain, but
he did not feel comfortable with using opioids on a regular basis. He was diagnosed by a
credentialed  professional  who  felt  cannabis was  a  viable  form  of  pain  relief.  He  has  a
medical license that allows him to use marijuana legally under his state’s law. He is aware
that marijuana is still illegal under federal law. (Item 4.)
Applicant’s June 3, 2021 Personal Subject Interview (PSI) was consistent with his
SCA and his Answer. He uses marijuana several times a week for pain relief. His doctor
has not prescribed any other pain relief medicine. Applicant does not want to use opioids.
He intends to use marijuana in the future. His marijuana use has not made him unreliable,
untrustworthy,  or  lacking  in  poor  judgment.  Nor  has  his  marijuana  use  caused  him  to
disregard rules, regulations, or laws. (Item 6.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
A2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified information will  be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG
¶ 24 sets forth the concern, as follows:
The illegal use  of controlled substances, to include the  misuse of prescription
and   non-prescription   drugs,  and   the   use   of   other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental  impairment or are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent with  their
intended   purpose   can   raise   questions  about  an   individual's  reliability   and
trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior  may   lead   to   physical  or
psychological  impairment   and   because   it  raises  questions  about   a   person's
ability   or  willingness  to   comply   with   laws,  rules,   and   regulations.  Controlled
substance   means   any   "controlled   substance"   as   defined   in   21   U.S.C.§   802.
Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in this guideline  to  describe  any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance . . .  ; and
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
abuse . . . .
The only potentially applicable mitigating factor here is quoted below:
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment.
Applicant admitted that he has been using marijuana regularly since 1996 and that
he intends to continue to use it for pain relief. Facts admitted by an applicant in an SCA,
an Answer to a SOR, or in an interview require no further proof from the Government.
ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any admissions [applicant] made
to  the  SOR  allegations  .  .  .  relieve  Department  Counsel of  its  burden  of  proof”);  ISCR
Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1  (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n applicant’s admissions,
whether  testimonial  or  written,  can  provide  a  legal  basis for  an  Administrative  Judge’s
findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal, or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Because  of  Applicant’s  past  use  of  marijuana,  his  current  use,  and  his  expressed
intent to use in the future, disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (g) apply here.
The next inquiry is whether any mitigating factors apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant began using marijuana more
than 25 years ago. Therefore, the inception of his use was long ago. He has, however,
continued his regular use to the present day. And Applicant intends to continue to use
marijuana. His use has been frequent, and Applicant plans to continue using marijuana
in the future. His use is not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(a).
The Whole-Person Concept
The record raises doubts about  Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a.- 1.b:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information. Applicant’s eligibility is denied.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
