After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 42 years old, married, with two sons, ages seven and four. She is a
college graduate (May 2003). Since June 2019, she has worked for a defense contractor.
She has been fully employed since August 2008. (Item 3.) Her financial problems began
in 2018, when she underwent an expensive elective medical procedure and her husband
was laid off “for several months.” (Item 6.)  She identified seven delinquent debts in her
October  2019  SCA,  one  of  which  is  included  in  the  SOR.  She  has  not  received  any
financial  counseling.  (Items  3  and  6.)  The  SOR  debts  were  reported  delinquent  in  a
September 2020 credit report. (Item 5.)
The SOR alleged five delinquent debts either charged off, in collection, or past due
totaling  $26,172  (including  past  due  mortgage  account).  (Item  1.)  The  SOR  debts  are
supported by the record. (Items 4 and 5.)
SOR  ¶  1.a.  is  credit  card  account  that  has  been  charged  off  in  the  amount  of
$8,254. Applicant admitted this debt, stating: “I sent [sic] up a payment plan and issue will
be resolved by June 29, 2022.”  (Item 2.)  She updated her Answer and added that as a
result of a settlement, this debt will be resolved by June 29, 2022. (Response.) She did
not provide any documents in support of her Answer or Response.
SOR ¶ 1.b. is a credit card account charged off in the amount of $7,900. Applicant
admitted this debt, stating: “I notified the bank in April 2022 that I will set up a 2-month
payment plan to resolve the delinquency beginning on July 29, 2022.” (Item 2.)  Applicant
updated her Answer and added that as a result of the 2-month payment plan, this debt
will  be  resolved  by  July  29,  2022.  (Response.)  She  did  not  provide  any  documents  in
support of her Answer or Response.
SOR ¶ 1.c. is a consumer account in collection in the amount of $1,814. Applicant
admitted this debt, stating: “I set up payment plan and issue will be resolved by April 30,
2022.” (Item 2.)  She updated her Answer and added that as a result of a settlement, this
debt was paid in full on April 30, 2022. (Response.) She did not provide any documents
in support of her Answer or Response.
SOR  ¶  1.d.  is  a  medical  account  in  collection  in  the  amount  of  $201.  Applicant
admitted this debt, stating: “I will reach out to remedy by May 15, 2022.” (Item 2.)  She
updated her Answer and added that as a result of a settlement, this debt was paid in full
on  May  31,  2022.  (Response.)  She  did  not  provide  any  documents  in  support  of  her
Answer or Response.
SOR ¶  1.e. is  home  mortgage  account that is past  due  in  the  amount of  $8,003
with  a  total  balance  of $344,577. Applicant admitted  this debt,  stating: “I  requested  a  new
payment due  date  from  [mortgagee] to  align  with  salary  deposits. This should remedy  the
delinquency  going  forward. Payments of  $5,200  will be  reflected  on  mortgage  statement
by   April  15,   2022.   Current  balance   is  $335,798.96.”   (Item   2.)   Applicant  updated   her
Answer  and   added   that  a  new   payment   schedule  has  been   set,   to   which  she   has
complied. (Response.)  She  did  not provide  any  documents  in  support of her  Answer or
Response.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision. The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, then the applicant is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . . .” The applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
indicate   poor  self-control,
lack  of
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of personnel security  concern such  as  excessive  gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially   overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate  funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by  Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit reports. AG ¶¶  19(a) and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are
potentially applicable:
(a)   the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely  to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment;
(b)   the  conditions that  resulted  in  the  financial problem were largely  beyond
the   person's  control  (e.g.,   loss  of   employment,   a   business  downturn,
unexpected  medical emergency, a  death,  divorce or separation, clear
victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,   or identity   theft), and   the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and,
(d)  the   individual  initiated   and   is  adhering   to   a   good-faith   effort  to   repay
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The SOR debts have been reported delinquent since at least September 2020 and
have  remained  delinquent.  The  inception  of  Applicant’s  delinquencies  is not  that  long
ago.  And since then, the SOR debts have  remained delinquent.  That Applicant waited
until after the SOR was issued in April 2022 to address her delinquent debts calls into
question her judgment and reliability. She knew in October 2019 when she completed her
SCA  that  delinquent  financial  accounts  were  material  to  her  eligibility  for  a  national
security clearance. Yet even with that knowledge, she took no action until the issuance
of the SOR unmistakably jeopardized her security clearance. Her delinquent debts are
not mitigated by AG ¶ 20(a).
The  record  shows  that  two  circumstances  contributed  to  Applicant’s  financial
difficulties in 2018, her expensive elective medical procedure and her husband being laid
off  “for “several months.” AG ¶ 20(b) may apply. The triggering events must be “largely
beyond  [an  applicant’s]  control.”  Applicant  did  not  characterize  her  expensive  elective
medical procedure as an “emergency.” Therefore, it was not largely beyond her control
within the contemplation of AG ¶ 20(b).
The lay-off  of Applicant’s husband, however, fits squarely within the language of
AG ¶ 20(b) (loss of employment). But that does not end the inquiry.  Applicant must then
show that she acted responsibly in the face of those adverse circumstances. Given the
discussion under AG ¶ 20(a), she did not do so. Only the issuance of the SOR spurred
her into action to resolve her debts. That is not responsible conduct. Her delinquent debts
are not mitigated by AG ¶ 20(b).
AG ¶ 20(d) needs to be considered, because a  number of  Applicant’s Answers
and Responses speak of setting up payment plans with creditors and some debts being
settled, or paid in full. There is no reason to doubt those assertions, but they come “too
little,  too  late.”  The  conclusion  is  inescapable  that  the  issuance  of  the  SOR  motivated
Applicant  to  address  her  delinquent  debts.  This  is  not  considered  to  be  a  good  faith
resolution of debts. I find that AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply (lack of good faith). See ISCR
Case No. 15-03208 at 5 (App. Bd. Mar. 7, 2017).
One final infirmity is that Applicant failed to provide any documents in support of
her Answer or her Response. The Appeals Board has routinely held that it is reasonable
to expect applicants to produce documentation supporting their efforts to resolve debts.
See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 20-00615 at 2 (Jun. 7, 2021).
The Whole-Person Concept
Under  AG  ¶  2(a),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept.  AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9)
(explaining  the  “whole-person”  concept  and  factors).  In  my  analysis,  I  considered  the
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole-person concept in light
of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about her eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has not provided sufficient evidence to
mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST A  PPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  e.:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
