Applicant  is  an  employee  of  a  defense  contractor,  where  he  has  worked  since
2020.  He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree  from  a  Chinese  university  and  a  master’s  degree  and  a  PhD  from  a  U.S.
university. He is married with two adult children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 24, 29-30; GE 1; AE
A-1)
Applicant  was  born  in  a  rural  area  of  China  to  parents  who  were  farmers.  He
married his wife in China  in the  late 1980s. He  came to the  United  States in the  early
1990s to attend college. His wife and older child followed him to the United States about
six  months  later.  Applicant  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  the  mid-2000s.  His  older  child
became a U.S. citizen the following year, and his wife the year after that.  His younger
child  was  born  in  the  United  States.  Since  China  does  not  recognize  dual  citizenship,
Applicant,  his  wife,  and  his  children  are  U.S.  citizens  only.  (Tr.  at  22-30;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1; AE A, A-1, A-4, A-9)
Applicant’s  parents  are  deceased.  His  four  siblings  and  his  parents-in-law  are
citizens and residents of  China. His siblings and their spouses are farmers in the rural
area  of  China  where  Applicant  lived  in  his  youth.  His  parents-in-law  are  elderly.  His
father-in-law  is  retired.  His  mother-in-law  did  not  work  outside  the  home.  None  of  his
family  in  China  have  any  direct  connection  to  the  Chinese  government  or  the
Communist Party. (Tr. at 28, 34-35, 39-41; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE A-1)
Applicant  has  not  visited  China  since  2016,  and  with  his  parents  deceased,  he
has  no  immediate  plans  to  return.  He  is  not  particularly  close  to  his  siblings,  having
spent  his  adult  life  in  college  away  from  the  rural  area  where  he  grew  up  and  in  the
United States. None of his family have ever visited him in the United States. He talks to
them several times a year, mostly on holidays or special occasions. He does not send
them money or otherwise support them. His wife visited her parents in China with their
younger  child  in  2018.  His  wife  talks  to  her  parents  about  every few months.  His  wife
has  health  problems  that  make  traveling  difficult.  She  has  no  immediate  plans  to  visit
China. (Tr. at 33-39; GE 1; AE A-1)
Applicant does not own any assets or property in China. He has lived in the same
house in the United States since the late 1990s. He owns the home outright without a
mortgage.  His  assets   and   net  worth   in   the   United   States   total about   $2   million.   (Tr. at
24-25, 31-32; GE 1)
Applicant  expressed   his  complete   allegiance   to   the   United   States,  which  he
considers his home. His immediate  family, including  an  infant grandchild,  are all  in  the
United  States.  He  credibly  testified  that he  would report any  attempt to  use  his  family  in
China  to  coerce  or intimidate  him  into  revealing  classified  information.  (Tr.  at  25-26, 33-
34, 41-42)
Applicant called five witnesses, and he submitted documents and letters attesting
to  his  excellent  job  performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his
friendliness,  helpfulness,
trustworthiness,  professionalism,  reliability,  work  ethic,
dependability,  honesty,  reliability,  leadership,  professionalism,  integrity,  and  loyalty  to
the United States. (Tr. at 43-55; AE A, B, C)
The People’s Republic of China  (PRC)
The  PRC  is a  large  and  economically  powerful country, with  a  population  of over
1.4   billion   people.   The   PRC   has   an   authoritarian   government,  dominated   by   the
Chinese   Communist  Party.  The   PRC   has   a   poor  record  with   respect  to   human   rights
and  suppresses political dissent.  Its practices  include  official repression  of  the  freedoms
of  speech, religion, movement, association, and  assembly; forced  confessions; torture;
mistreatment of prisoners; and  arbitrary arrest, detention, and killings.
The PRC engages in espionage against the United States and is one of the two
most  active  collectors  of  U.S.  economic  intelligence  and  technology.  The  PRC  also
sometimes  uses  coercion  or  blackmail  to  manipulate  its  citizens  overseas  to  conduct
influence operations on behalf of the PRC, such as threatening ethnic Uyghurs living in
the United States with imprisonment of their family members in China. Additionally, the
PRC  targets  individuals  in  other  countries  to  support  its  acquisition  of  foreign
technology.  The  PRC’s  “Thousand  Talents  Program”  seeks  to  recruit  individuals
primarily, but not exclusively, from relevant diaspora populations and recent emigrants
from the PRC, as well as foreign national experts whose recruitment the PRC views as
necessary to its scientific and technical modernization, especially with regard to defense
technology.
