Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, and 2.a. He admits and
denies portions of SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.e and 2.b. He denies SOR ¶ 3.a. His admissions are
incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1999. He is not married
and has no children. He has worked for his present employer, a federal contractor, since
2021. From 2012 to 2021, he was employed by a different federal contractor. He has held
a security clearance at various times during the past 22 years and uninterrupted for the
past ten years. (Transcript (Tr.) 27-30, GE 1)
Applicant acknowledged that he is a recovering alcoholic.  He began consuming
alcohol around age 14 and continued to January 2019. (SOR  ¶ 2.a) He has never had
any alcohol-related incidents away from work or at work. He has never been arrested or
charged  with  an  alcohol-related  offense.  He  has  never  been  disciplined  for  anything
alcohol-related. In the past, he had issues with his ability to sleep and that caused him to
be late for work on occasion. He testified these were not alcohol-related. (Tr. 30-35)
Applicant acknowledged  that in 2012  he  was using  alcohol excessively. In  2013,
on his own accord, he  admitted  himself to a  5-day inpatient detoxification program  (SOR
¶  1.a). He explained  that at that time, he  loosely  had  a  plan  that he  would abstain  from
drinking  for a  while, but he  did  not  plan  to  stop  drinking  alcohol  forever.  When  he  was
discharged  from  inpatient treatment,  he  was  diagnosed  with  anxiety  and  not otherwise
specified   alcohol  dependence.  For  the   next  two   and   half   years,  he   did  not  consume
alcohol.  He  then  began  drinking  and  gradually  increased  his  consumption.  (Tr.  32-33,  42-
45, 76-78; GE 3)
In 2017, Applicant realized he was drinking too much and again admitted himself
to a 5-day inpatient detoxification program to get help.  He was diagnosed with  anxiety
disorder, mood disorder, and alcohol dependence (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c). He acknowledged
his consumption level was not normal and was harmful. He was referred to a therapist
and a psychiatrist, who prescribed medication to help with anxiety associated with alcohol
withdrawal.  He  was  told  to  abstain  from  alcohol  consumption.  He was  told  to  take  the
medication as needed. Lethargy was a side effect of one of the medications. He credibly
testified that he told his psychiatrist that his anxiety was better, and she agreed he could
cease taking the medication. He credibly testified that he has always followed his doctors’
orders regarding taking prescribed  medications.  He  did  not  stop  taking the  medication
contrary to medical advice. He was taking medication to relieve the anxiety associated
with  withdrawal  symptoms  and  believed  he  was  to  take  the  drugs  “as  needed.”  He
disputes  he  was  noncompliant.  He  saw the psychiatrist for two  visits  and  the therapist
twice a month for six months. He testified that the medication he was prescribed was to
temporarily  treat  his  acute  anxiety.  When  the  anxiety  ceased,  he  no  longer  took  the
medication. I found Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 45-49, 78-85, 105-108; GE 4)
Applicant abstained from consuming alcohol for about six months until 2018 when
he resumed. Then he felt he was consuming too much alcohol and it was not normal. He
again  referred himself  for treatment as  an inpatient  in  a detoxification  program for five
days. (SOR ¶ 1.d) He had two visits with a psychiatrist and he did not recall if he saw a
therapist.  After  completing  the  program  in  the  latter  part  of  2018,  he  began  attending
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). (Tr. 49-51, 85-90; GE 5)
Applicant acknowledged that he has been repeatedly told to abstain from alcohol
consumption.  He  testified  that  his  family  and  friends  recommended  he  attend  AA.  He
credibly testified that AA was more helpful than therapy, which was general and focused
on trying to find an event that triggered his alcohol consumption. He was open to talking
with a therapist, but it was the different approach that AA offered that made a difference.
Being  with  a  group  of  people  with  similar  issues  who  could  relate  and  understand  his
challenges  was  instrumental  to  his  commitment  to  sobriety.  They  offered  him  different
approaches  to  staying  sober.  He  stated  that  after  attending  AA,  he  started  to  see  a
different aspect to his alcohol consumption. (Tr. 51-54, 103)
Applicant acknowledged that when he began participating in AA, he was ready to
make a lifelong commitment to abstaining from alcohol consumption. His attitude shifted.
Before, his commitment was to be sober for a period-of-time, but not forever. Since he
began attending AA, his commitment  is for life.  He testified that  his  date  of  sobriety is
January 25, 2019. He credibly testified that he has not consumed any alcohol since then.
He provided photos of his sobriety chips, which included his three-year chip  and other
milestone chips. (Tr. 51-55, 59-60; AE D)
Applicant  attends  AA  meetings  weekly.  He  has  a  sponsor  with  whom he  meets
regularly and who guides him through the 12-step program and the “Big Book,” which is
the handbook for AA. His sponsor has moved and no longer attends the same meeting,
but  is  geographically close  so  Applicant  and he  meet  outside  of  the  AA  meetings  and
discuss  how to proceed  with  his sobriety.  Applicant provided  copies  of  the attendance
logs for his meetings since September 2020. He testified he attended weekly meetings
before then. Applicant has also taken on a leadership role in the meetings by being the
chairperson. He testified that the last three steps of the 12-step program are ones that
are worked on in perpetuity. He detailed each step. The last step is to spread the message
to others and be a sponsor. He has reached out to be a sponsor to a person and is waiting
for this person to respond. He goes to his AA meetings early to help setup and brings
refreshments. He also will mentor new participants to the group. (Tr.53-62; AE C)
Applicant testified that he no longer suffers from anxiety. His previous anxiety was
associated with his alcohol withdrawal. He does not take medication for anxiety and no
one has suggested he seek treatment for any disorder. He has adopted a healthy lifestyle
by going to the gym five days a week. He provided a copy of the attendance log from his
gym. (Tr. 40-41, 62-65 100-101; AE F)
Applicant acknowledged that in the past he was embarrassed about his alcohol
use. Now he does not have difficulty talking about it. Part of AA is to accept his condition
and freely discuss his experience and abuse of alcohol. (Tr. 65-66, 102-103)
In January 2021 Applicant was evaluated by a licensed clinical psychologist and
board certified neuropsychologist (LP), requested and approved by the government. She
administered psychological tests. She diagnosed him with alcohol abuse disorder, severe
in  current  remission  and  unspecified  anxiety  disorder.  She  opined  that  Applicant’s
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness could be compromised based on his conditions.
She  noted  that  Applicant  lacked  candor  during  his  interview,  which  suggested
guardedness  and  possibly  poor  insight  into  his  conditions.  She  opined  that  his
psychological profile suggested that he was not open to treatment, which increased the
likelihood of relapse. Therefore, her prognosis was guarded. (SOR ¶ 1.e). (GE 2)
Applicant provided context about his interview with LP. He explained that LP took
issue with the amount and frequency of his alcohol use. He explained to her it was difficult
to explain how much alcohol he consumed at different times because the amount and
frequency varied and it was difficult to quantify. He believed he was open and honest with
her. He believed that she thought he was being inconsistent because of his answer. He
also believed that he no longer suffered from an anxiety disorder, which was associated
with his alcohol abuse. (Tr. 66-67)
Applicant  was  evaluated  by  Dr.  W  who  has  a  Ph.D.  in  psychology  and  has
practiced in the field since 1976 and as a forensic and clinical psychologist since 1993.
He  is  a  Fellow  of  the  American  Psychological  Association.  He  is  licensed  in  several
jurisdictions and has been qualified as an expert witness in different disciplines. He has
an  extensive  curriculum  vitae,  which  includes  numerous  articles  he  authored  for
professional publications and presentations. He is an expert in his field. (Tr. 111; AE H)
Dr.  W.   evaluated   Applicant  in  November  2021   with   the   understanding   that   his
evaluation  would be objective. He noted  LP’s diagnosis  was that Applicant  was at  risk of
relapse   for  his   prior  alcohol  use   disorder,   especially   because   he   suffers  from   anxiety,
which LP  believed  could  lead  to  alcohol relapse. Dr. W.  diagnosed  Applicant  with  Alcohol
Use Disorder, severe, in sustained  remission. His prognosis was good. (Tr. 111-112; GE
2; AE G)
Dr. W reported that Applicant advised him that he occasionally experiences some
degree  of  anxiety,  but  he  does  not  think  of  alcohol  as  a  needed  solution.  Applicant
explained that alcohol was something he formerly used to help with insomnia, but he has
maintained a consistent sleep schedule for the past three years, which has eliminated his
insomnia  and  need  for  alcohol.  Dr.  W  conducted  psychological  tests,  which  were
significant in that they indicated that Applicant made no effort to minimize his mental or
emotional problems and that he completed the test honestly and accurately, which is an
indication of overall honesty on the part of Applicant. (AE G)
Dr.  W  reviewed  the  known  and  reported  history,  psychological  testing,  clinical
interview and mental status examination of Applicant. He determined that Applicant had
a  history  of  alcohol  abuse  and  dependence  and  that  he  had  to  undergo  detoxification
three times. Dr. W noted that “In Sustained Remission,” indicates that the individual has
not met the criteria for Alcohol Use Disorder in at least 12 months. In Applicant’s case, he
reported that he has abstained for over three years. Dr. W noted:
Abstinence  is not required  for an  individual to  be  considered  In  Sustained
Remission.  All  that is  required  is for the  individual not  to  have  met  the  criteria
for the  Alcohol Use Disorder Diagnosis during  a  12-month  period. However,
for members of  [AA] to  be  considered  sober and  compliant with  the  program
of AA, they are required to  be continually abstinent. (AE G)
Dr. W  noted  inconsistencies in LP’s report. LP  first determined  that  Applicant did
not suffer from a  mood disorder, but then stated that he had “minimal effective treatment
for Alcohol Use Disorder nor his mood  disorder.”  (GE 2  at page  5). LP’s report references
no  mood  disorder other than  Bipolar Disorder,  which LP  indicated  Applicant did not suffer
from. Dr. W  noted  that  LP  concurrently  stated  that Applicant does and  does not suffer
from  a  mood  disorder. Dr. W  agreed  with  LP’s conclusion  that there  was no  evidence  of
Bipolar Disorder and  he  did  not  see  any  evidence  of any  other mood  disorder.  (Tr.  112-
115, 121-122; AE G)
Dr. W noted that LP asserted that Applicant had minimal effective treatment for his
alcohol use disorder. Dr. W emphatically disagreed with this, as Applicant has participated
in AA, which in his opinion is the “most effective and widespread treatment for [Alcohol
Use Disorder] in existence.” (Tr. 112-115; AE G)
Dr. W noted that LP opined that Applicant was not fully candid in his interview. Dr.
W found the opposite and noted that Applicant revealed information that was not flattering
and went far beyond the questions posed to him. He noted that LP’s administration of a
psychological test was valid and indicated that Applicant was honest, which implies that
he was inclined to be honest throughout his assessment with LP. (Tr. 115-118; AE G)
Dr. W’s conclusions are that Applicant has suffered from alcohol problems during
his adult life. He chose to discontinue alcohol use twice without obtaining the necessary
follow-up intervention for his addictive behavior. On this third attempt, he followed up with
the medical detoxification program with an acceptance of the AA program. Applicant has
fully accepted the full scope of the AA program. He does more than just document  his
attendance. He has a sponsor, has completed the 12-step program, and has volunteered
his service for the program. This indicates Applicant accepts his need for sobriety and is
not merely going through the motions to placate an outside authority. (Tr. 112-117; AE G)
Dr. W  noted  that   Applicant’s alcohol problem   is familiar in that many   individuals
with  alcohol problems repeatedly  deny  the  seriousness and  repeatedly  tell  themselves
they   can   manage   the   problem   on   their   own   without   a   treatment   program.   Applicant
believed  this  on  two  occasions following  his medical detoxification. He ultimately  arrived
at the  conclusion  that he  needed  help to  stay  sober,  and  he  could  not resolve  the  problem
on  his own  using  will  power  alone. Dr. W  noted  that in AA, the  final realization  that an
individual has an  alcohol problem  and  needs outside  help  occurs when  the  individual hits
“rock bottom.” In  Applicant’s case,  hitting  rock bottom  took the  form  of  his realization  that
he  was powerless over alcohol and  that every  medical detoxification  was just  going  to
lead to another medical detoxification  unless  he got help for his addiction. Dr. W  stated:
It  should be  noted  that  [Applicant]  has attained  his current stability  through
his  participation   in   AA.  Every   professional   alcohol  treatment  program,
whether residential or outpatient,  always concludes treatment with  a  referral
of  patients to  AA  for long  term, continuous follow  up. Although  [Applicant]
did not participate  in  a  residential  alcohol treatment program, his final step
towards recovery  by  attending  and  participating  in the  program  of  AA  fits
the  pattern of those  who  successfully  recover from  alcohol use  disorders.
(AE G)
Dr. W concluded in his report the following:
[Applicant]   is approaching   three   years of   sobriety   and   participation   in  the
program   of  AA.   To   a   great  degree   of  psychological  certainty,  I  consider
[Applicant]  to  be  fit to  continue  to  hold a  security  clearance  and  to  be  free
from  his former alcohol problem. (AE G)
Dr. W  testified  at Applicant’s hearing  and  reiterated  his prognosis and  conclusions.
He stated  that Applicant’s full  participation  in AA  is the  strongest predictor of  whether he
will  relapse. He noted  that LP  stated  that Applicant lacked  insight into  the  severity  of  his
condition. Dr. W  disagreed  stating,  if  that were  the  case, Applicant  would not be  attending
AA, have  a  sponsor, or continue  to  work the  12-step  program. LP  found  that  Applicant
had  an  unspecified  anxiety  disorder. Dr. W  found  that Applicant did  not have  an  anxiety
disorder;  rather his  past reflected  that  when he had  anxiety  he  turned to  alcohol. Anxiety
is a  contributing  factor with  anyone  who  abuses alcohol. People find  alcohol  diminishes
the   anxiety.  Applicant’s  participation   in AA   helps  him   handle  anxiety   and   gives  him   an
alternative approach. (Tr. 112-113, 121-128)
Applicant took two PETH tests to detect for alcohol consumption. Dr. W testified
that  PETH  is  a  test  that  is  required  by  many  professional  organizations  in  order  for  a
member to regain a professional license after having an alcohol-related incident. It is not
a conventional blood alcohol test, but one that looks for a metabolite for alcohol and it can
detect if a person had consumed any alcohol in the past month. Applicant took the tests
on September 2nd and 26th, 2022, and tested negative for alcohol on both. (Tr. 62-63;
118-121; AE E)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  on  his  December  2017
security  clearance  application  (SCA).  Section  24  asked  if  he  sought  counseling  or
treatment  as  a  result  of  his  alcohol  use.  He  answered  “yes”  and  disclosed  his  2017
inpatient  treatment,  but  did  not  disclose  he  was  admitted  to  the  hospital  in  2013  for
complaints of anxiety and heavy drinking. (GE 1)
Applicant testified that he approached his 2013 detoxification as merely taking a
break from using alcohol. He explained that he rushed through the SCA and focused on
his  2017  treatment.  He  said  that  he  did  not  deliberately  attempt  to  deceive  the
government. Applicant said that in hindsight and now as a recovering alcohol, he would
consider his 2013 treatment as a significant event, but when he completed his 2017 SCA,
he did not focus on that event. He realized his error when it was brought to his attention
by the government investigator during a background interview in 2018. Applicant admitted
that his past alcohol abuse embarrassed him. Now that he has been an active member
in AA, he is no longer feels inhibited about discussing his past issues with alcohol. (Tr.
67-75, 90-98)
Applicant’s  AA  sponsor  (TH)  provided  a  letter  on  his  behalf.  He  met  Applicant
almost four years ago when Applicant began attending weekly AA meetings. It became
clear to TH that Applicant was serious about his sobriety and learning the AA program.
TH offered to guide him through the steps and work the program with him. TH stated that
Applicant was willing to do the work. They worked together after weekly meetings and
weekend  mornings.  They  completed  the  action  steps  of  the  program,  and  Applicant
continues  to  work the steps  that  require  ongoing efforts (Step 10  through  12). He  and
Applicant communicate regularly. TH stated: “Due to [Applicant’s] step work, consistent
meeting  attendance,  willingness,  and  honesty,  I  believe  [Applicant]  is  recovered  as
defined by the Big Book.” (AE I)
Applicant provided a character letter from JA. They have been friends for 35 years.
Applicant and JA were college roommates, and Applicant was in his wedding. JA is aware
of Applicant’s past struggles with alcohol and the SOR allegations. JA lived with Applicant
from  December  2020  to  March  2021.  He  stated  that  Applicant  did  not  consume  any
alcohol when they lived together. He described Applicant as a caring, giving, and honest
person.  Applicant  sticks  to  his  schedule  and  leads  a  healthy  lifestyle.  JA  believes
Applicant  did  the  right  thing  by  seeking  help  when  he  needed  it  and  noted  he  was
successful, which is the goal of treatment. He believes Applicant has overcome his past
issues. He described Applicant has an amazing man, friend, and a patriot. (AE A)
Applicant provided a character letter from JH, who has known him for 19 years. JH
has been Applicant’s direct and indirect supervisor, and they have shared an office. He
considers Applicant a responsible, honest, and reliable person. He is a professional and
works well with his customers. He completes his assignments in a timely manner. When
Applicant recognized he had a problem with alcohol, he sought help and there were never
any negative implications regarding his work. JH noted that Applicant has demonstrated
a  commitment  to  his  recovery  and  remaining  sober.  Applicant  reached  out  to  his
supervisors candidly explaining his struggles. JH believes Applicant can be trusted to hold
a security clearance. (Tr. 37-39; AE B)
Applicant provided a copy of his current performance evaluation from his employer.
He received marks of “meets expectations” and “exceeds expectations.” (Tr. 39-40; AE
J)
