Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since December 2019. He attended a trade school from 2010 until
2011  and  earned  a  trade  certificate.  He  has  never  been  married  and  has  no  children.
(Tr. 21; GE 1, 2)
In about August 2006, Applicant was charged with driving under the influence of
alcohol  (DUI)  in  State  A.  He  had  been  drinking  mixed  drinks  at  a  party  and  was
impaired.  He  claimed that  he  gave  his keys  to  another individual  in  order  to  drive  him
home,  but  that  person  was  also  impaired.  Whoever  was  driving  Applicant’s  car  hit  a
telephone  pole  and  police  arrived  on  the  scene.  Applicant  claimed  that  the  driver  fled
the scene and he was in the passenger seat. He told police he had not been driving. He
claimed that, despite the fact that he had not been driving, police arrested him for DUI
because his car had been involved in the accident and he had a blood alcohol content
(BAC) over the legal limit. He was convicted of DUI. Based upon the self-serving nature
of his story and his arrest and conviction, I find Applicant’s claim that he was not driving
his  car  strains  credulity.  He  was  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  during  this
incident.  His  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  nine  months  and  he  was  placed  on
probation. He was also required to attend court-ordered alcohol-related classes and he
had to pay $1,600 in fines. He claimed that he has satisfied all the requirements of this
DUI conviction. He went to Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings for about a year after
this  arrest.  However,  he  drank  alcohol  during  the  time  period  he  was  attending  these
meetings. (Tr. 18, 23, 25, 33, 37-38, 52; Answer; GE 1-3)
In  about  July  2010,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUI  in  State  A.  He  was  pulled
over  after  driving  home  from  a  concert  where  he  had  been  drinking  beer.  He  claimed
that  he  had  only had  four  beers  over  a  five-hour  period.  He  was  given  a  breathalyzer
test,  resulting  in  a  .08  BAC.  He  was  arrested  and  spent  the  night  in  jail.  He  pleaded
guilty and was convicted of DUI. As a result of his conviction, he was fined and ordered
to take 18 months of weekly DUI instructional classes. He attended these classes until
about  2011,  but  transportation  issues  and  scheduling conflicts  resulted  in  his failing to
complete the courses. He was also ordered to install an ignition interlock device on his
vehicle, which he failed to do. Applicant lost his job as a driver as a result of this DUI. As
of the date of the hearing, he still had not complied with the terms of his sentence as he
has yet to complete the DUI instructional courses or install an ignition interlock system
on  his  car.  He  claimed  that  he  has  not  completed  these  requirements  because  of  the
time  and  money  it  would  cost  him.  He  also  acknowledged  missing  these  classes
because he was being foolish. (Tr. 19, 23, 26-27, 33-34, 37-43, 46-49, 56; Answer; GE
1-3)
Applicant was arrested in about April 2011 for failure to appear and for failing to
complete  the  requirements  of  his  2010  DUI  conviction.  As  a  result  of  his  failure  to
complete the terms of his 2010 DUI conviction, his driver’s license was suspended. He
was  arrested  again  in  December  2012  on  the  same  charges  as  the  April  2011  arrest.
(Tr. 34-42; Answer; GE 1-3)
Despite  knowing  that he  was not permitted  to  drive  because  his driver’s license
was  suspended,  Applicant  drove  his  vehicle  to  and  from  work  nearly  every  day  from
2011  until  2018.  In  about  December  2018,  while  driving  to  attend  a  job  interview,  he
was pulled over by a  police officer in State B for following another vehicle too closely.
When the police officer determined the suspended status of Applicant’s driver’s license,
he  was  arrested and charged  with  driving  on  a  suspended  license  and  driving  without
an ignition interlock device. He was convicted of both of these charges. Applicant knew
that  he  was  not  supposed  to  be  driving,  but  he  did  so,  regardless.  His  vehicle  was
impounded  and  he  was  fined.  He  paid  the  fines  through  a  payment  arrangement  in
about 2020. (Tr. 29-31, 42-45, 51; Answer; GE 1-3; AE B)
In  about  2019,  Applicant  moved  to  State  C  for  a  new  job.  He  obtained  a  valid
driver’s license in State C through their application process that involved a “Termination
Action” of his State A driver’s license suspension. Despite arguably not being eligible for
the Termination Action in State A pursuant to the language in its own forms (ineligible if
individual  has  not  complied  with  an  ignition  interlock  requirement),  Applicant  was
granted his request for a Termination Action in State A and obtained a driver’s license in
State  C.  He  is  not  permitted  to  drive  in  State  A  because he  has  not  complied  with  (at
least) the ignition  interlock  portion of  his 2010  DUI  conviction.  He claimed that  he has
not  driven  on  a  suspended  license  after  his  2018  charge  in  State  B.  He  also  claimed
that  he  has  not  consumed  alcohol  and  driven  after  his  2010  DUI  arrest.  (Tr.  44-51;
Answer; AE A)
Applicant claimed that he has steadily cut back on his drinking after his 2010 DUI
arrest  and  conviction. He  was  drinking  about  a  six-pack  of  beer  every day  prior  to  his
2010  DUI.  In  2020,  he  claimed  that  he  was  drinking  a  12-pack  of  beer  two  weekends
per month. During the hearing, he testified that, after he obtained his driver’s license in
State C in 2020, he only drinks one or two beers at a sitting. However, he also testified
that he drank four beers at a sitting about three weeks before the hearing. He claimed
that  he  no  longer  drinks  to  the  point  of  intoxication.  However,  he  testified  that  he  was
last intoxicated in December 2021 after drinking 11 beers at one sitting while visiting his
family in State A.  He acknowledged  that, at some point  in  the past,  he had a problem
with  alcohol  and  considered  himself  to  be  an  alcoholic,  but  he  has  never  been
diagnosed  by  a  qualified  professional  as  having  an  alcohol  use  disorder.  He  claimed
that he has never tried to abstain from alcohol completely, but may when he is married
and has children. (Tr. 23-28, 52-56)
Applicant  provided  a  character-reference  letter  from  his  facility  security  officer
(FSO) praising Applicant for his honesty, hard work, and responsibility. His FSO claimed
that he believed that Applicant has learned from his mistakes and should be entrusted
with a security clearance. (AE C)
