After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 34 years old, has never married, and has no children. He attended
college  from  March  2011  to  March  2013,  when  he  earned  his  Associate’s  degree.  He
earned his Master’s degree from the same college in March 2015.  He was unemployed
from March 2004 until August 2014. He also listed “In process with [a company]” during
that period. Neither his SCA nor his Personal Subject Interview (PSI) explained what that
meant. Since September 2016, he has worked for a defense contractor. (Items 2 and 3.)
The SOR alleged 13 student loans that are in collections totaling $77,113. (Item
1S.)  Applicant admitted all allegations. (Item 1A.)  The creditors for all 13 loans are “DEPT
OF ED/NE,”  “DP OF EDUC,” or “US DEPARTMENT OF EDU,” respectively. (Items 4, 5,
and 6.)  The amounts past due in the eldest credit report (Item 4, January 29, 2020) do
not match any of the amounts due in the two most recent credit reports. (Items 5 (February
22, 2021) and 6 (June 22, 2022)). Nor do the account numbers in the eldest report match
the  numbers in  the  two  most  recent  reports. (Items 4,  5, and 6.) Therefore,  the  eldest
report (Item 4) is given less weight.
The  SOR  dollar  amounts  and  account  numbers  for  each  debt  came  from  the
February 22, 2021 credit report. (Item 5.) Those dollar amounts match the latest credit
report dollar amounts.  (Item 6.) The debts were incurred in approximately the 2013 to
2015 timeframe. (Items 5 and 6.) Because the 13 debts have the same creditor, the same
respective  amounts  due,  and  the  same  reporting  status,  they  do  not  warrant  separate
discussions.
HE 1 states in pertinent part the following:
Today  the  U.S. Department of  Education  (Department) announced
that  it   will  discharge   all   remaining   federal  student  loans  that  borrowers
received  to  attend  the  College  from  January  1, 2005  through  its closure in
September  2016.  .  .   .These   borrowers  will   have   the   federal  loans  they
received  to  attend  the  College  discharged  without any  additional action  on
their   part.  .  .  .   [The   investigation   showed   that]  The   College   engaged   in
widespread   and   pervasive   misrepresentations  related   to   the   ability   of
students  get a  job  or transfer  credits.  .  .  .  The  College  defrauded  hundreds
of thousands of students. . .  .
Applicant received  his Associate’s degree in  March 2013  and his Master’s degree
in  March  2015.  Therefore,  he   attended   the   College   during   the   dates  covered   by   the
Department’s loan  discharge.
The SOR also alleged that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his delinquent
student  loans  in  his  SCA.  The  SCA  did  not,  in  fact,  disclose  those  loans.  (Item  2.)
Applicant  admitted  that  allegation.  (Item  1A.)  The  subject  of  his  student  loans  and  his
failure to disclose them were discussed in his PSI:
Subject  was  advised   during   his  initial   contact  to   schedule  his
interview, to  bring  any  documentation  pertaining  to  his  financial accounts.
Subject  was asked  if he  was  currently  delinquent  or had  any  accounts that
were  currently   collections  or  charged   off.  Subject   disclosed   that  he   had
looked  at  his student loans yesterday  and  that they  were in defaulted  [sic]
and  he  knew  they  were  delinquent. Subject  knew  he  had  to  pay  them  but
after graduation  he  tried  to  start payments but he  was not  able  to  contact
the creditor. Shortly  after Subject  graduated  [the  college]  was closed  and
Subject   was  given   points  of   contact  that  would  not  return  his  calls.   After
three  months of  repeated  attempts to  contact  the  creditor  Subject  gave  up
trying to pay.  Subject is financially responsible and  he is willing and able to
make   the   payments,  he   became   frustrated   trying   to   locate   the   creditor.
Subject did not list the  accounts on  the  questionnaire  because  he  did  not
have  all  the  information  for  the  accounts,  he  did  not  intentionally  omit the
information.  (Item  3.)
During   Applicant’s  PSI,   he   went  into   detail   about  his  monthly   income,  normal
expenses, and  monthly  remainder. His monthly  remainder at that time  was $2,013. (Item
3.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well   established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.  As  the
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly   consistent  standard
that   security
determinations should err, if  they  must,  on  the  side  of  denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
for  a   security   clearance,  an
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
administrative   judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative   guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of  law  that apply  together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of  the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate   poor  self-control,
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial
judgment,   or
obligations  may
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of personnel security  concern such  as  excessive  gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially   overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate  funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The SOR debts are established by Applicant’s admissions and the Government’s
credit reports. AG ¶¶  19(a) and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are potentially
applicable:
(a)   the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely  to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment;  and
(b)   the  conditions that  resulted  in  the  financial problem were largely  beyond
the   person's  control  (e.g.,   loss  of   employment,   a   business  downturn,
unexpected  medical emergency, a  death,  divorce or separation, clear
victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,   or identity   theft), and   the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.
The next inquiry is whether any mitigating conditions apply.
Applicant’s SOR debts were incurred in the 2013 and 2015 timeframe. That is not
so long ago. Nor were those debts infrequent. And they remained in default to the present.
Because  of  the frequency and  recency of  the  debts,  AG  ¶ 20(a) does  not  mitigate his
debts.
Addressing Applicant’s student loans apparently came to the fore after he earned
his Master’s degree  in  the  spring  of 2015.  He  knew after graduation  that  he  needed  to
start paying his loans. And he was willing and able to make payments, as attested by his
monthly  net  remainder.  He  was  given  points  of  contact  for  the  creditor.  He  contacted
those contact points for about three months, but he never received any return calls. He
became frustrated  trying  to  locate  the  creditor.  Shortly  after  he  graduated  in  2015,  his
school  closed.  The  closure  of  Applicant’s  school  and  his  resultant  inability  to  find  his
creditor  to  pay  for  his  loans  are  “conditions.  .  .  largely  beyond”  his  control,  within  the
contemplation of AG ¶ 20(b). That, however, does not end the inquiry.
AG  ¶  20(b)  also  requires  that  Applicant  act  “responsibly”  under  the  adverse
circumstances he confronted. In this case, he knew that after graduation he would need
to start paying off his student loans. He obtained contact information for his creditors. For
several months, he used that contact information trying to reach his creditors, but to no
avail. Not long after, his school closed and was the subject of a federal investigation. That
resulted  in  hundreds  of  thousands  of  student  loans  being  discharged,  including
Applicant’s loans. AG ¶ 20(b) applies and mitigates his debts.
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
In   assessing   an   allegation   of  deliberate   falsification,   I   consider  not   only   the
allegation  and  applicant’s answer but all  relevant circumstances.  AG ¶¶  2(a) and  (d)(1)-
(9) (explaining  the  “whole-person” concept and  factors).  Under Guideline  E  for personal
conduct,  the  concern is that “[c]onduct involving  questionable judgment,  lack  of candor,
dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to   comply   with   rules  and   regulations  can   raise   questions
about an  individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and  ability  to  protect classified  or sensitive
information.” A  statement is false or dishonest when  it is made  deliberately   (knowingly
and willfully).
In this case, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified facts by failing to disclose his
delinquent  student  loans  in  his  SCA.  He  unqualifiedly  admitted  that  allegation.  This
conduct falls squarely within AG ¶ 16(a), which states in pertinent part:
[D]eliberate   omission,  concealment,   or  falsification   of   relevant  facts  from
any personnel security questionnaire .  . . used to conduct investigations.
AG ¶ 17(a) states in pertinent part a condition that may mitigate that disqualifying
condition:
[The]  individual  made   prompt,   good-faith   efforts  to   correct  the   omission,
concealment,  or falsification  before being confronted with the  facts.
In  this case, after falsifying by omission  his SCA,  Applicant’s next opportunity to
correct that omission was during the PSI. At the outset of the PSI, he was asked the open-
ended  question  whether  he  was  currently  delinquent,  had  any  accounts  that  were
currently in collections, or charged off. He “disclosed that he had looked at  his student
loans yesterday and that they were in defaulted [sic] and he knew they were delinquent.
[He] knew he had to pay them but after graduation.” His answer was straightforward, not
the product of coaching, or confrontation. He concluded this exchange as follows: “[He]
did not list the accounts on the questionnaire because he did not have all the information
for the accounts, he did not intentionally omit the information.”
On  this  record,  Applicant  used  the  first  opportunity  afforded  by  the  security
clearance process to rectify his omissions in the SCA. He did so without having seen the
SOR or being confronted by the investigator. I find that Applicant mitigated his omission
under AG ¶ 17(a).
The Whole-Person Concept
Under  AG  ¶  2(a),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept.  AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9)
potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions and the whole-person concept in light
of all the facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant  leaves  me  with  no  questions  about  his  eligibility  and  suitability  for  a
security clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has provided sufficient evidence
to mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  1.m.:
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraph 2.a.:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented,  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
