In  her  answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  all  the  SOR factual allegations  (¶¶
1.a  through  1.s). However, at hearing,  she  disputed  all  the  delinquent medical accounts
alleged  in  SOR ¶¶  1.g  through  1.s.  Her  documentation  established  that  she  was injured
at work, filed  for workmen’s compensation, and  received  disability  payments.  She  claimed
all  medical expenses were supposed  to  be  paid under her disability claim. Based  on her
testimony and evidence, I found  for Applicant under SOR ¶¶ 1.g through 1.s.
Applicant’s SOR admissions, and those at her hearing, are incorporated herein as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is 39  years old.  She  graduated  from  high  school in  2001, and  earned  a
bachelor’s  degree  in 2005.  She  married  in 2009  and  divorced  in 2017.  She  has  a  nine-
year-old disabled  son  (autistic-nonverbal).
Applicant  was  employed  between  2006  and  2013.  Her  son  was  born  in  March
2013. She testified she was in disability-maternity leave between March and September
2013. (Tr. 18-19) When her maternity leave ended and she was not able to return to work,
her employer terminated her employment. She was hired in June 2014 and was employed
until February 2019. She testified that between March 2019 and October 2020, she had
two  operations  and  was  placed  under  the  protection  of  the  Family  Medical  Leave  Act
(FMLA) and placed on long-term-disability (LTD). While in LTD, she was earning $2,600
a month, which was insufficient to pay her rent, car note, and living expenses. She noted
that   because   of her son’s condition, she  has larger expenses for daycare and  medical
services.
Applicant’s current employer and security sponsor, a federal contractor, hired her
in November 2021. She is making about $85,000 a year. (Tr. 26) In Section 26 (Financial
Record)  of  her  2020  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  had  financial  problems  that
included owing income taxes to her state and a car repossessed in 2017.
Applicant  explained  that  her  financial  problems  resulted  from  her  period  of
separation and divorce, her periods of medical disability when she was earning only 60
percent of her salary, underemployment, and the expensive,  special medical treatment
and medicines required for her disabled son.
Applicant  stated  she  filed  federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  (TY)  2007
through 2011. She did not file federal income tax returns for TY 2012 through 2021. She
did not file state income tax returns for TY 2018 through 2019. She owes her state about
$14,000 for taxes, as evidenced by liens filed against her in 2007, 2015, and 2016. As of
her  hearing  date,  Applicant  had  not  filed  her  delinquent  federal  or  state  income  tax
returns. She had not contacted the state tax authority to establish a payment plan to pay
her delinquent income taxes. She testified that she owes her state income taxes for TY
2008 through 2021. (Tr. 21)
Applicant averred she was not sure whether she had to file federal or state income
tax returns for some of the years in question because she was only making a little over
$30,000  a  year from  her  disability  payments.  According  to  IRS  regulations,  in  2012,  a
person making over $9,750 gross income had to file an income tax return, and in 2021,
the filing threshold  was  $12,550  gross  income. Applicant did not present documentary
evidence  to  show  she  was  below  the  IRS  or  her  state  filing  threshold  for  the  years  in
question.
When asked at her hearing why she did not file her federal and state income tax
returns, Applicant testified that after her son was born in 2013, he became her first priority
and filing her tax returns was not a priority. She claimed she did not have the financial
means  to  pay  an  accountant  or  tax  preparer,  or  to  pay  her  taxes. Because  of  her low
income,  she  was  more  concerned  about  paying  the  family’s  living  expenses  than  her
debts.  She  noted  that  the  expenses  associated  with  her  divorce,  her  and  her  son’s
medical problems, her periods of unemployment and underemployment, and she being
the sole provider for her family made her financial situation difficult.
Applicant claimed a prospective employer offered her a job paying over $100,000,
provided  she  is  eligible  for  a  clearance.  She  believes  that  if  she  is  granted  clearance
eligibility, she will be able to resolve all of her financial problems. She noted she was been
upfront and truthful during the clearance process. Her intent is to file all her delinquent
income tax returns and pay her delinquent taxes. She acknowledged there were periods
where  she  could  have  been  more  proactive  addressing  her  taxes  and  her  delinquent
debts.
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  an unpaid  judgment for $294 filed  against  Applicant  in  2019.
She claimed she received the court notice sometime during the pandemic and started to
investigate  the  collection.  She  claimed  she  called  the  creditor  two  weeks  before  her
hearing to discuss a settlement. She presented no documentary evidence of her contacts
with the creditor. She has not paid the judgment. (Tr. 33)
At hearing, Applicant disputed all the delinquent medical accounts alleged in SOR
¶¶ 1.g through 1.s. Her documentation established that she was injured at work, filed for
workmen’s compensation several times, and received disability payments. She is in the
process  of  disputing  the  collections  and  resubmitting  her  medical  bills  to  her  worker’s
compensation insurance carrier. Based on her testimony and evidence, I considered SOR
¶¶ 1.g through 1.s mitigated. (Tr. 36 – 41)
She  promised  to  be  financially  responsible  in  the  future.  She  presented  no
evidence to show that she is following a budget or that she has participated in financial
counseling. Applicant was honest and upfront during the security clearance process and
disclosed her tax issues and financial problems in her 2020 SCA, during her background
investigation interview with government investigators, and at her hearing.
