In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted the Guideline F allegations (SOR
(¶¶ 1.a through 1.l), with narrative comments for each debt. He admitted the Guideline E
allegation  at  SOR  ¶  2.a,  also  with  an  explanation.  He  “admitted”  the  two  falsification
allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  2.b  and  2.c,  but  I  construe  his  explanation  as  a  denial.  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 61  years old.  He and his wife have been married since 1998. They
have  two  grown  children.  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  1979.  He  attended
college from 1979 to 1983 but did not earn a degree. He attended subsequent schooling
more than 10 years ago, some of which was financed by student loans at issue in this
case, as discussed below. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1986 to 1996, and received
an honorable discharge. (Item 2)
On  his  SCA,  Applicant  detailed  his  employment  since  2006.  From  mid-2006
through  late  2010,  Applicant  worked  in  Afghanistan  as  an  avionics  technician  for  a
defense  contractor.  He  returned  home  in  November  2010  when  his  employer  lost  the
contract that employed him. He was then unemployed until May 2011. He then returned
to Afghanistan for a different contractor. He worked in Afghanistan until April 2017, when
that contract ended. (Item 2) He then worked for the same employer in a new position as
an aircraft mechanic in the U.S. from April 2017 to October 2018. He then took a break
for personal reasons, and was unemployed for about four months, until February 2019.
(Item 2) He then returned to the job in February 2019, and has worked there ever since.
He did not indicate on his SCA that he holds a clearance but references a “10-year review”
in his FORM Response, which suggests that his current SCA is a periodic reinvestigation.
(Item 2, Item 3; SOR Response; AE A)
Applicant submitted an SCA in February 2020. In answering questions about his
financial  record,  he  disclosed  that  in  April  2017,  “I  got  behind  on  my  payments  on  my
travel card. I got a verbal counseling from my manager.” He said the amount was about
$3,000, and he said he had paid the debt owed. (Item 2 at 37) (SOR ¶ 2.a)
Applicant  explained  in  his  background  interview  that  he  had  been  working  in  a
large U.S. city (presumably on business) and had incurred charges on his company credit
card. He owed “less than $5,000” on the card and was two or three months late in paying
the card due to financial issues. Company policy required that employees pay the card in
full each month. He received a counseling letter from his manager for missing payments.
He borrowed money from his company 401(k) plan and paid the money within 30 days of
receiving the counseling letter. (Item 3 at 2) (SOR ¶ 2.a)
Applicant said he was not terminated as a result, nor did he resign in lieu of being
fired. He explained that he left the company after the travel assignment in order to spend
more time with his family. He later rejoined the company in February 2019. (Item 3 at 2;
Item 2) The letter Applicant received is not in evidence, nor is the company credit card
policy documented.
In answering SOR ¶ 2.a, Applicant said he was “in a financial struggle at the time
and  got in a  bad  situation  with  the  company  card.” He has “cleared  up  the  matter and
there are no other work-related issues.” He attested to an excellent work ethic and there
are no concerns about his integrity. (FORM Response Item A)
In answering other financial questions on his SCA, Applicant did not disclose that
he had any delinquent debts, such as judgments entered against him, debts reported for
collection, or charged-off accounts. (Item 2 at 37-38) (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c)
Applicant subsequently had a background interview in July 2020. In reviewing his
answers  on  his  SCA  with  the  interviewing  agent,  he  noted  that  he  was  “getting  by”
financially,  “and he may be 30-120  days  late  on  some  bills.” He acknowledged  having
accounts in collections. He said he did not list the accounts because he did not know the
account information to do so accurately on the SCA. He was then provided the account
information from his credit report, and he discussed his debts in detail. (Item 3 at 3-4) In
answering SOR ¶¶ 2.b and 2.c, Applicant explained that he  did not intend to falsify his
answers on his SCA, but got “overwhelmed with the questions.” (Item 1)
Applicant  explained  in  his  background  interview  that  between  2006  and  2010,
when he was working overseas, he made a good income and was able to keep up with
expenses. This changed when he returned to the U.S., and he made less money. He was
unable to keep up with his bills and expenses, and he said he has been trying to address
his debts by making money through increased overtime. (Item 3 at 4)
The debts alleged in the SOR total about $34,000.  (Item 1) The record includes
two credit bureau reports (CBRs), dated June 2020 and May 2021, which establish the
delinquent accounts alleged. (Items 4, 5) The debts are detailed as follows:
SOR  ¶   1.a   ($6,876)  is  an  account  that  has  been  charged  off  by  a  bank.  The
account remains unpaid, though Applicant intends to settle the account. (Item 4, Item 5;
Answer)
SOR ¶¶  1.b  ($4,820), 1.i ($883), and  1.j ($420) are federal student loans that are
past  due.  Applicant  admits  the  debts,  but  was  not  aware  that  he  still  owed  them.  He
thought they may be loans he cosigned for his daughter’s education but he now believes
they  are  his.  He  intends  to  contact  the  creditor  to  bring  them  current.  (Item  4,  Item  5;
Answer)  In  his  FORM  Response,  he  indicates  that  he  has  begun  repayments  on  his
federal student loans, but he provides no details. (I note that since March 2020, federal
student loans have been in forbearance status by presidential executive order due to the
COVID  pandemic.  The  forbearance  program  is  scheduled  to  conclude  at  the  end  of
December 2022).
SOR ¶  1.c ($4,167) is an account that has been charged off by a bank. Applicant
explains that he incurred this debt, like others, during a time of financial hardship when
he  was  “overwhelmed”  and  not  able  to  pay  his  family’s  monthly  bills.  (Item  4,  Item  5;
Answer) In his FORM Response, he says he has set up a payment plan for this debt but
he provides no details, and no corroborating documentation. (FORM Response Item A)
This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.d  ($2,789) is an account placed for collection by Bank C. Applicant said
in  his Answer that  he is in  a monthly payment  plan.  (Item 4,  Item 5;  Answer) With his
FORM Response, he provided a statement from the creditor reflecting biweekly payments
of about $73 between August 2021 and March 2022. As of March 2022, the balance owed
was $954. (FORM Item D) This account is being paid.
SOR ¶  1.e  ($2,673) is an  account placed  for collection  by  Bank B. Applicant said
in  his Answer that  he  is in  a  monthly   payment  plan.  (Item  4,  Item  5;  Answer)  With  his
FORM   Response,  he   provided   a   statement  from   the   creditor  reflecting   a   payment  in
March 2022  of about $90.  As of March 2022,  the  balance  owed  was $1,518.  (FORM  Item
C)  This account is being paid.
SOR ¶¶  1.f  ($1,484) and  1.l ($1,963) are accounts that have been charged off by
Bank B. Applicant admits the two debts but believed that they were being handled by the
collection  agent  for  SOR  debt  ¶  1.e.  (Item  4,  Item  5;  Answer)  He  provided  no
documentation to support this.
SOR ¶ 1.g ($1,188) is an account that has been charged off by Bank C. Applicant
intends to address this debt in turn, but it remains unresolved. (Item 4, Item 5; Answer)
SOR  ¶   1.h   ($866)  is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  phone  company.
Applicant  said he  has made payments  towards  this debt, and provided documentation
with his FORM Response that the account has been paid. (Item 4, Item 5; Answer; FORM
Item B)
SOR ¶  1.k ($6,473) concerns a  default judgment entered  against Applicant by  a
credit  card  company   in  October 2019.   (Item   5) As noted   in   the  SOR,  the   account   was
resolved through wage garnishment, and the judgment was satisfied  in June 2020. (Item
1) The  Government’s evidence  includes the  Notice of  Satisfaction,  a  document Applicant
provided  during  his background  interview. (Item  3  at  5, Item  6)  The  debt was therefore
resolved well before  issuance of the SOR, albeit through garnishment.
In his FORM Response, Applicant acknowledges that he has accumulated debt
and has struggled with paying it off. He says he and his wife have not made good financial
choices  in  the  past,  but  work  hard  to  provide  food  and  shelter  for  their  family  while
addressing their debts as they can. He also helps his mother with her bills and food. He
cannot pay all of his debts at once but will continue to address his debts as he can. He
said he recently paid off his car and a phone debt (SOR ¶ 1.h), and he said he has set up
a payment plan for SOR debt ¶ 1.c. He says he has begun repayments on his student
loans. (Form Response Item A)
Applicant also states in his FORM Response that he did not intend to lie when he
failed  to  disclose  his  debts  on  his  SCA.  He  thought  he  had  addressed  his  debts  in  a
previous section of his SCA and was too hasty in answering the questions in an effort to
complete the application in a timely manner. (FORM Response Item A)
Applicant states that he is not a security risk to his employer or to the country. He
understands the security concern arising from his debts. He works hard, and volunteers
to  help  others.  He  enjoys  his  job  and  would  never  compromise  security.  (FORM
Response Item A)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  documents  or  other  information  about  his  current
income and expenses to detail his ability to address his debts responsibly going forward.
