Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  audio-visual  technician,  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since 2009. He earned an associate’s degree in 2007. He married in 1999 and
has two children. He reported possessing no prior security clearance eligibility.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  is  indebted  on  a  consumer
account in collection and two charged-off consumer accounts totaling $23,054 (SOR ¶¶
1.a, 1.b, and 1.g); and four medical debts in collections totaling $401  (SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.f).
Applicant admitted all of the delinquent accounts; except he claimed that SOR ¶ 1.g is a
duplicate  of  SOR  ¶  1.a.  (Ans.)  The  record  evidence  is  sufficient  to  support  the  SOR
allegations.
During  his  August  2020  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with  a  Government
investigator, Applicant discussed the SOR debts. He said the collection account listed as
SOR ¶ 1.a for $10,645 is a defaulted loan for his spouse’s car, and the account listed in
SOR ¶ 1.g for $12,043 may be the same account. Of note, the credit bureau reports in
the  record  show  each  account  with  different  account  numbers  and  amounts  due.
Applicant also acknowledged the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.b for $366 as a delinquent
credit-card account, and  said he would pay it off. With regard to his medical debts, he
said  he  would  investigate  the  accounts  and  pay  them  if  his  insurance  does  not  cover
them, or dispute them if the insurance company is responsible. Applicant said he would
review his credit report and begin payments on the smallest accounts first.
No  information  was  provided  showing  efforts  to  investigate,  pay,  dispute,  or
otherwise resolve the SOR debts, or on his current financial status. He said in his PSI
that he was unaware of the extent of his delinquency history and that it was important for
him to clean up his credit. Although he admitted the delinquent accounts were his, he said
he was a victim of fraud in the past, and completed credit counseling several years ago.
He said he and his spouse allowed their medical bills, secured credit cards, and vehicle
payments to overwhelm them.
