In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.h
and 2.b. He did not expressly admit or deny SOR ¶ 2.a, which cross-alleges SOR ¶¶ 1.a,
1.b,  1.d,  1.e,  and  1.g.  He  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  3.a  and  3.b,  but  with
explanations that amount to denials. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  mechanical  technician  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since June 2008. He graduated from high school and attended some college
courses but did not receive a degree. (Tr. 21.)  He has held a security clearance since
July  2009.  He  married  in  March  2017  and  separated  in  December  2019.  He  has  no
children.
In May 2008, Applicant was charged with carnal knowledge of a child, a felony. He
was 19 years old, was dating a 15-year-old girl, and had a sexual relationship with her.
The girl’s sister told their parents about the relationship. He pleaded guilty to contributing
to the delinquency of a minor, a misdemeanor. He was sentenced to eight weekends in
jail. (GX 10.) During an ESI in June 2018, Applicant told a security investigator the he did
not  think  he  was  doing  anything  wrong,  because  the  girl’s  mother  consented  to  their
relationship. (GX 4 at 18.)
In July 2008, Applicant was convicted of being a minor in possession of alcohol.
He was required to complete 50 hours of community service.
In  November  2008,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  driving  while
intoxicated (DWI). He was convicted and served two weekends in jail.
In  July  2009,  Applicant  was  charged  with  failure  to  appear  in  court.  He  was
convicted  and  required  to  pay  restitution.  (GX  9  at  4.)  At  the  hearing,  he  could  not
remember missing a court date, but he accepted the fact that court records reflected the
offense. (Tr. 24.)
In  February  2010,  Applicant  was  charged  with  being  drunk  in  public.  He  was
convicted in April 2010 and required to pay restitution. (GX 9 at 5.)
In  March  2011, Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor DWI,  2nd  offense.  He
pleaded  guilty  to  DWI  and  was  sentenced  to  a  $250  fine  and  6  months  in  jail,  with  5
months and 25 days suspended, He served two weekends in jail. (GX 8; GX 9 at 5.)
In February 2016, Applicant was suspended from work for three days because he
overslept due to alcohol consumption and missed his flight to a job location. He overslept
after drinking and arrived at the airport too late to check in. Someone else took his place
on the flight, and he switched places with his replacement two weeks later. (Tr. 24-25.)
In May 2018, Applicant was cited for urinating in public. He pleaded guilty and paid
a $60 fine. (GX 7.)
In   August  2019,  Applicant  was  charged   with   DWI,  2nd   offense.  He  had   been
drinking,   took   the   wrong   exit  off   a   highway,  and   ended   up   at   the   gate   of   a   military
installation where he could not turn around. He was arrested, pleaded guilty, was placed
on  probation  for 12  months, and  was sentenced  to  ten  days in jail,  which he  served  on
four  weekends.  The   terms  of  his  probation   included   refraining   from   excessive   use   of
alcohol,  and he  was required  to  complete an alcohol  safety  action  program  (ASAP).  (GX
6; Tr. 18-19.)  He  did  not report this conduct to  his employer  until he  went to  court.  His
employer suspended  him  without pay  for a  “few  days” for failure  to  report the  incident.  (Tr.
27.)
In July 2020, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor public drunkenness. This
incident occurred when he went to a friend’s house, found that the friend was not at home,
and  discovered  that  his  cellphone  was  dead.  He  lingered  around  the  house,  “trying  to
figure out how to get home.” Neighbors were suspicious and called the police. The police
arrived, smelled alcohol, and arrested him. He had consumed about eight beers and a
shot of alcohol. (Tr. 12-15.) He pleaded guilty, paid a $15 fine, and his probation for the
August 2019 DWI was extended for six months. (GX 5.) He reported this incident to his
employer, having learned his lesson for not reporting the August 2019 incident. (Tr. 27.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  abstained  from  alcohol  since  this  incident  in  July
2020. (Tr. 12.) He testified that he had attended Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings “in
and out” since 2019. His last AA meeting was in 2021. He stopped attending AA meetings
because he believed that he was finally on the right path. In 2020, he attended counseling
for about two months. He knows he has a drinking problem. He testified, “I wouldn’t say
I’m dependent on alcohol. I mean, I –it’s just, once I start, it’s always been difficult for me
to stop. It always  go extreme. And sadly enough, it took all this trouble for me to start
realizing that I needed to make changes.” (Tr. 20.)
Applicant  does  not  keep  alcohol  in  his house.  He  enjoys  playing  golf,  spending
time with his two young nieces, and hiking and camping with his girlfriend. He recently
bought a home, and he enjoys outdoor yard work. (Tr. 23.)
Applicant  submitted  an  SCA  in  April  2009.  He  answered  “No”  to  the  question,
“Have you EVER been charged with any felony offense?” He did not disclose that he was
charged with felony carnal knowledge of a child in May 2008. (GX 3 at 33.)
During  a  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  in  May  2009,  Applicant  told  the
investigator that he did not disclose the carnal knowledge charge in his SCA because he
was  told  by  an  unknown  person  that  his  record  would  be  cleared  if  he  completed  his
community service after his arrest for underage possession of alcohol. (GX 10 at 1.)
Applicant submitted another SCA in July 2016. In response to the same question
about ever being charged with a felony, he again answered “No,” and he failed to disclose
that he was charged with felony carnal knowledge of a child in May 2008. (GX 2 at 25.)
When he was interviewed by a security investigator in June 2018, he asserted that he did
not  read  the  question  carefully  enough  to  understand  that  the  question  asked  “ever”
instead of a specific timeframe. (GX 4 at 18.)
Applicant submitted a third SCA in August 2020. In response to the same question
about ever being charged with a felony, he again answered “No,” and he again failed to
disclose the felony charge of carnal knowledge in May 2008. (GX 1 at 31.) In his answer
to the SOR, he stated that he misunderstood the difference between being charged and
being convicted.
At the  hearing, Applicant  testified  that  when  he  was talking  to  investigators, he  was
talking  about  “the  situation” and  not  about whether  it was a  felony. He denied  that  he  was
hiding  anything, and  he  insisted  that  he  was confused  about  the  difference  between  being
“charged” and “convicted.” (Tr. 31.)
Two former supervisors submitted  statements on  Applicant’s behalf.  One former
supervisor has known Applicant personally and professionally for 15 years. He describes
Applicant as a natural leader and a reliable, trustworthy, and dependable worker. (AX B.)
Another former supervisor has known Applicant professionally for 14 years. She regards
Applicant as a trustworthy, responsible, and dependable individual. (AX A.)
