Applicant  is  65  years  old.  He  has  married  four  times.  His  first  three  marriages
ended in divorce. He and his first wife had two children. Applicant’s adult son died in an
accident in 2015. His other child is an adult. Applicant and his fourth wife married in 2016.
He graduated from high school and earned an Associate’s degree. He served in the U.S.
Navy for four years and was honorably discharged in 1979 with a disability. Applicant has
been  employed  by a defense  contractor  as a technician  since July 2019  and seeks to
obtain  national  security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.  The  e-QIP  is  his  first  application  for  a  clearance.  In  2014  the  Defense
Department granted Applicant eligibility to receive a Common Access Card. (Tr. at 22-25,
27, 39; GE 1 at 7, 12, 13, 24, 26-30, 37-38.)
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and  Substance Involvement
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  security  clearance
because he has used marijuana since 2015 and intends to continue to do so in the future
(SOR 1.a and 1.b). The Government further alleges that a psychologist (the Psychologist)
who  conducted  a  psychological  evaluation  diagnosed  Applicant  as  having  Unspecified
Cannabis-Related  Disorder  and  concluded  that  his  condition  could  pose  a  risk  to  his
judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness concerning classified information at this time (SOR
1.c).  In  his  Answer  Applicant  admits  the  first  two  SOR  allegations  and  provides  some
additional information. He denies the third allegation stating that he does not meet the
criteria  of  the  diagnosis  provided  by  the  Psychologist  and  questions  whether  the
Psychologist is competent.
Applicant  smoked  marijuana  before  his  children  were  born  in  the  mid-to-late
1980’s. As a parent he decided to stop using illegal drugs to set an appropriate example.
In 2015 after the death of his son, Applicant began using edibles containing marijuana or
THC  (Edibles).  Applicant  was  suffering  severely  from  grief.  He  was  having  difficulty
sleeping.  A  doctor  diagnosed  that  Applicant  was  experiencing  post-traumatic  stress
disorder (PTSD) and provided him with a medical marijuana card that permitted him to
purchase  marijuana,  including  Edibles  with  THC,  to  help  him  with  his  PTSD.  He  uses
Edibles  because  they  gave  him  some  relief  from  his  “emotional  trauma”  and  help  him
sleep. He presently uses them three or four nights per week. The anniversary of his son’s
death was during the period just before the hearing, and he used Edibles more frequently
to help  him  get through  a period  he  described  as “hell.” He  only takes Edibles after he
experiences something that triggers his intense feeling of grief. He acknowledged that he
experiences triggers every day, even “24/7.” He never takes Edibles during the day. He
is  opposed  to  any  prescription  drugs  that  are  typically  used  to  reduce  anxiety  or
depression. He “avoid[s] them like the plague.” He intends to continue using Edibles in
the future because “the pain never goes away.” He acknowledged that he is aware that
THC is an illegal drug under Federal law. He views his only alternative to THC is the use
of opioids, which he dislikes because they are addictive. (Tr. at 28- 31, 39-45.)
Applicant candidly testified that he uses Edibles because without them he will “cry
himself to sleep every night.” He suffers from sadness and depression every day, but only
uses the Edibles at night because they help him sleep. He finds it overwhelming to deal
with so much grief every day. His plan for the future is to continue focusing on his work,
which he asserts he performs well. He will also continue surfing on the weekends and
after work. When  he  needs  the  relief  provided  by  the  Edibles,  he will  continue  to  take
them to help him sleep. He commented that he will “not be a free man until the day I die.
There is no resolution.” (Tr. at 46-49.)
Applicant disagrees with the Psychologist’s evaluation of his condition because he
does not believe he is dependent on marijuana or THC (collectively, THC). He views the
Psychologist’s  diagnosis  of  Unspecified  Cannabis-Related  Disorder  as  concluding  that
Applicant is dependent on THC. Applicant testified about his recent experience of taking
a two-week vacation with his wife when he could not travel with Edibles to other states.
During  that  vacation,  he  was  comfortable  not  using  Edibles  because  there  were  few
situations that triggered intense grief. He experiences those triggers regularly when he is
at  home  where  he  keeps  his  son’s  ashes.  He  acknowledged  that  the  Psychologist’s
conclusion that Applicant is reliant on THC to  stabilize  his mood  is “60% accurate.” He
engages in other activities to remain calm, like surfing. (Tr. at 31-33, 43.)
Paragraph 2  - Guideline  I, Psychological Conditions
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for a security
clearance  because  he  has  a  psychological  condition  that  raises  security  concerns.
Specifically, the SOR alleges the Psychologist gave Applicant a guarded prognosis due
to Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) that is untreated other than a prescription for
marijuana.  In  his  Answer  Applicant  denies  this  allegation  and  provides  additional
information and opinions regarding his view that the Psychologist’s opinion is erroneous.
At the hearing Applicant acknowledged that he is not currently participating in any
treatment. He does not find grief counseling useful. He participated in grief counseling for
two years after his son’s death and found that discussions about the seven stages of grief
to be repetitive and unhelpful. He believes that “nothing resolves the grief of a lost child.
Nothing.” He believes that there are no answers. (Tr. at 34-36.)
The  Psychologist’s  report,  dated  January  6,  2022,  is  part  of  the  record.  In  his
report, the Psychologist  noted that three counselors have treated Applicant  in the past
and that Applicant advised that he had been diagnosed with PTSD. Applicant has only
received treatment during a six-month period. The Psychologist’s test results confirmed
this diagnosis. He also affirmed a prior diagnosis of Applicant of Unspecified Cannabis-
Related Disorder. The Psychologist gave Applicant a “guarded” diagnosis. He wrote that
Applicant “seems reliant on the substance [THC] to maintain a stable mood.” His ultimate
conclusion was that Applicant’s “PTSD and marijuana use could pose a significant risk to
his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness concerning classified information at the present
time.” (GE 2 at 8-9.)
Mitigation
Applicant honorably served in the Navy for four years and was discharged with a
disability. In 2015 he suffered the tragic loss of his only son with whom he was very close.
Seven years later he continues to grieve, kissing the urn holding his son’s ashes before
he retires for the night. He sleeps poorly and thinks of  his son and the loss of his son
every  day.  He  is  opposed  to  using  prescription  medications  to  treat  his  suffering  and
strongly believes that his use of Edibles is the best treatment option. He complied with
the laws of his state to obtain a prescription authorizing him to purchase and use Edibles.
He  believes  that  he  would  be  a  greater  risk  to  national  security  if  he  used  opioids  to
manage his PTSD and grief. He describes his honesty as his strength and his fault, noting
that he could have lied in his e-QIP and his use of Edibles would never have become an
issue. (Tr. at 49.)
