Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.e and 1.g. He denied the
allegations in SOR ¶ 1.d, 1.f and 1.h. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of
fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 62  years old and  a  high  school graduate. He married  in 1981  and  has
two  adult children. He has worked  for federal contractors since  2007. (Transcript (Tr.)  21-
22)
Applicant admitted that he drank alcohol at times to excess beginning in the 1980s.
On  November 12,  1996,  he  began  abstaining  from  alcohol consumption,  went back  to
church, and participated in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). He admitted he relapsed twice,
once in 2015 and again in 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.a). The first relapse was initially reported as
2016, but it was 2015. (Tr. 23-24, 26, 74)
In September 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He
disclosed that in 1996, he believed he was consuming too much alcohol. He was having
drinks with his friends after work, which turned into a daily occurrence. His wife did not
approve and it had a negative impact on his family. He confided in his supervisor who
assisted him in entering an inpatient alcohol treatment program. He was hospitalized for
three  days,  was  treated  for  alcohol  use  disorder,  and  upon  his  release,  he  began
attending AA and church, which he found helpful in maintaining his sobriety (SOR ¶ 1.c).
He testified that he did not consume alcohol until he relapsed in 2015. (Tr. 33, 48-50; GE
8)
Applicant told the investigator that in November 2015, while on a work trip he and
his coworkers had Sunday off. They went to church and later to the beach. Applicant was
offered a drink from a bottle of alcohol that was being passed around. He said he took a
swig and that was the first drink he had since 1996. He then went swimming, slipped, and
hit  his  head.  He  did  not  believe  he  was  intoxicated  or  that  alcohol  contributed  to  him
falling, but when he was treated for his head injury, the doctor smelled alcohol. He told
the doctor about his history of  sobriety and AA. The doctor decided to send him home
early  due  to  the  limited  amount  of medical care available  in  the  remote  location  where
they  were. Applicant said  he  reported  the  incident to  his supervisor upon  his return.  He
testified  that he  did consume alcohol at that time, but did not drink to excess.  He told the
doctor  he  was active  in  AA  and  believed  that  information  along  with  his head  injury, which
why  the  doctor sent  him  home. He stated  that in 2015, he  was
he  described as minor, is
attending  AA  daily  because  he  was helping  a  person  from  church with  his sobriety, so  he
attended  with  him. He said this was the first drink he  had  since  1996. SOR ¶ 1.d  alleges
the  incident  occurred  in  January  2016  and  Applicant said  it  occurred  in 2016. The  actual
incident  took place  in  2015  and  his  treatment occurred  in  January  2016.  (Tr. 27-30,  50-
52; GE 8)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  due  to  concerns  by  his  employer  about  his
alcohol  use,  he  voluntarily  submitted  to  an  alcohol  evaluation  with  his  employee
assistance  program.  From  January  2016  to  March  2016,  he  participated  in  three
counseling  sessions  at  BA,  a  treatment  center.  A  letter  from  his  counselor  stated  that
Applicant  had  been  sober  for  18  years  and  attended  AA.  He  had  an  excellent
understanding of addiction and there was no need for further counseling. No disciplinary
action  was  taken  nor  were  there  any  security  concerns  noted.  Applicant  testified
essentially to the same facts at his hearing. (SOR ¶ 1.d) (Tr. 34-37, 52-55; GE 3, 8)
Applicant told the  investigator that in  March  2018  he  had  minor surgery  on  his  leg
and   arm   and   was  not  prescribed   any   pain  medication.  He  was  driving   home   from   the
surgery   center,   was  in   pain,  and   was  anxious  about  being   off   work.  He   impulsively
purchased  two  airplane-size  bottles of alcohol that were each  about  two  ounces.  He drank
the  bottles. He  then  proceeded  to  drive  home  and  clipped  the  mirror on  a  truck with  the
mirror on  his car. He did  not purchase  over-the-counter pain  medication  because  he  was
going  to  go  home  and  sleep  and  thought  the  alcohol was the  easiest way  to  sleep.  At the
time, he did not realize he had clipped the  mirror until the  driver of the truck pursued  him
and  Applicant pulled  his car over. The  driver called  the  police. The  police  detected  alcohol
on  Applicant. He failed  a  field  sobriety  test and  was arrested  for driving  under the  influence
of   alcohol   (DUI).  Applicant  testified   that   he   passed   the   field   sobriety   test,   except   for
walking  in a  straight line, which he  had  difficulty  due  to  the  surgery on  his leg  and  pain
associated  with  it. A  breathalyzer test was conducted  and  it recorded  .13% and  a  second
test recorded  .11%. Applicant disputed  the  results due  to  the  amount of alcohol he  said
he   had   consumed.  He   was  also   charged   with   leaving   the   scene   of  an   accident  with
damage  to  property  and  careless  driving, misdemeanors. (SOR ¶ 1.e)  (Tr.  30-33, 37,  57-
61; GE 8)
Applicant testified essentially to the same facts. He acknowledged he used bad
judgment. He explained he was not swerving, but the truck had extended trailer mirrors
that were lightly fastened to the truck. He further explained that the breathalyzer was not
working correctly at the time. Two men were trying to fix the breathalyzer while he was at
the police station. He waited about four or five hours for them to fix it before the test was
administered. He did not agree with the results because based on what he said he had
to drink, the reading was too high. The DUI charge was reduced to reckless driving and
the other charges were dismissed. Applicant pleaded guilty to the reduced charge and
the court withheld adjudication based on Applicant’s compliance with the court orders. He
paid  the  associated  fine,  completed  community  service,  and  completed  the  other
requirements. (Tr. 30-33, 37-38, 77-79; GE 6)
After  Applicant’s  arrest,  he  was  required  to  report  to  his  state’s  safety  council,
which recommended he participate in alcohol counseling, which he did from April 2018 to
June  2018,  attending  15  sessions.  Het  disputes  the  information  on  the  intake
questionnaire that is part of the packet from the counseling center, BA. (GE 4)
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges that in April 2018, Applicant provided misleading statements to
a mental health professional (MHP) evaluating his alcohol use. The allegation states “You
stated  you  drank  ‘two  airplane  bottles of  liquor’  before  your DUI arrest  in  March  2018;
when  in  truth,  it  was  determined  you  drank  five  full  alcoholic  beverages  prior  to  your
arrest.”  Applicant  has  consistently  stated  he  drank  two  airplane  bottles  of  alcohol.  He
credibly testified that he told the MHP that he drank two airplane bottles of alcohol. He
explained  that  the  MHP  completed  the  questionnaire,  not  him.  The  form  is  not  in
Applicant’s  handwriting,  but  is  typewritten.  He  disputed  what  she  put  on  the  form.  He
credibly testified that she told him that it did  not matter what was on the form, he was
going to therapy. He said he answered “no” to questions that she checked “yes”. The form
asks “Type/amount consumed/used” and in the space provided in typed words, it states
“verbal: 2-2 ounce bottles. Written 2 airplane bottles.” Under the section which asked, “If
breath test refused, why?” [she] typed in “BAC .113/.108=5 drinks at time of testing.” He
testified that one question asked how often he would drink to have fun and the answer on
the  form  said  almost  all  of  the  time.  He  testified  that  he  would  never  have  said  that.
Another question asked how many days a week he consumed alcohol and the answer
said seven. He said this was false. There were numerous other questions that Applicant
said the answers were not his. I believe him. (Tr. 38-43, 60-62; GE 4 pages 42-62)
Many of the questions used the word “ever.” Applicant clearly stated that he had
an alcohol problem prior to 1996 and he relapsed once in 2016 and 2018, when he was
arrested for DUI. He disputed many of the answers on the questionnaire as misleading
by indicating that he had a current problem and was regularly drinking alcohol, which he
stated he was not. He testified that other than these two relapses, he has not consumed
alcohol and did not consume it after his 2018 arrest. I believe there may be confusion in
the questionnaire in that Applicant was responding to questions about his entire alcohol
history and not about his recent relapse and use of alcohol. The document does note that
Applicant refers to his relapse in 2016 and his second relapse in 2018. This also appears
to be the issue when Applicant was responding to government interrogatories. He was
referring to his alcohol use prior to 1996. He testified that he only consumed alcohol twice
after 1996. (Tr. 38-43, 66-72; GE 2, 4)
Applicant participated in the BA outpatient treatment from April 2018 to June 2018
and was diagnosed by a qualified mental health professional with alcohol use disorder,
relapse. He completed the program with a final diagnosis of alcohol use disorder, in early
remission. His prognosis was good. The MHP recommended he continue to participate
in AA. (Tr. 43-44; GE 4)
In  February  2021,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  government-approved  duly
qualified  mental  health  professional  (GMHP).  She  determined  Applicant  was  not
forthcoming with information, was inconsistent with his responses, and therefore he was
either untruthful or in denial of his alcohol use disorder condition. She determined that
Applicant  was  at  high  risk  for  relapse,  and  there  were  significant  concerns  about  his
reliability, judgment, and trustworthiness, and his prognosis was poor. (Tr. 44; GE 7)
Applicant disputed the GMHP findings and stated that he was frustrated with her
because  she  did  not  seem  familiar  with  the  steps  of  the  AA  program  and  seemed  to
disregard  his  active  participation  in  AA  as  significant.  He  believed  she  was  more  of  a
science person than a spiritual person. Applicant explained that he is active in his church
and has been a deacon for 17 years. He took his time answering the GMHP’s questions,
which  she  characterized  as  responses  as  being  elusive,  but  he  said  he  was  being
cautious  and  thoughtful,  realizing  his  answers  were  important.  He  believed  she
interpreted that as not being forthright. The GMHP did not agree with his use of his church
and  AA  for  help  with  his  alcoholism  and  abstinence.  His  spiritual participation  with  his
church and with AA is what he practices. She did not agree with him regarding step two
of AA that is accepting a power greater than  oneself and step three to turn over one’s
decisions to God. He felt there was tension with her because she did not agree with him
that AA has kept him from consuming alcohol. He admitted that during the past 26 years
of sobriety he has had two relapses in 2015 and 2018. He was surprised by the GMHP’s
responses to his commitment to AA.  I found  Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 44-46;
GE 7)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  had  two  relapses  since  1996,  once  in  2015  and
another in 2018, as noted above. He has participated in AA since 1996. He believes he
has taken responsibility for his actions. Applicant attends two AA meetings a week.  He
had a sponsor, who passed away about nine years ago. He has an accountability partner
who he is in contact with every day. They inquire on how they are doing and they share
devotionals.  He  continues  to  participate  in  the  AA  12-step  program.  He  is  an  active
member of the musical group in his church. He believes he is a recovering alcoholic and
will be forever. (Tr. 62-64, 75
Applicant read  a  character letter from  his  wife. She  stated  that they  were brought
up  in very  strict Christian  homes that did not allow  smoking, drinking, dancing, or going
to  movies.  She  believes because  of their  background  that any  alcohol consumption  was
considered  heavy and  that this is why Applicant has referred in the past to his heavy use
of  alcohol. She  stated  that Applicant abstained  from  alcohol consumption  in the  1990s,
began  attending  AA,  and  the  family  went back to  church. He  has  been  a  deacon  in  the
church for 17  years, taught Sunday  school, and  was in charge  of  counting  and  depositing
the  church’s offerings. He plays in the  band  at church every  Sunday. He shares his faith
“even   to   people,   sometimes  therapists,  who   aren’t  receptive.”  She   acknowledges  he
made   a   reckless  mistake   in  2018   when   he  used  alcohol.   He  took   responsibility   for his
actions.  He is  a  great husband,  father, and  friend  who  is  trusted  by  his bosses. (Tr. 24-
25; AE A)
Applicant provided character letters from friends and coworkers. He is described
as  dependable,  trustworthy,  and  upbeat.  His  supervisor  described  him  as  a  positive
person  whose  skills  are  “top  notch.”  He  is  valued  and  appreciated  by  his  coworkers.
Applicant also provided copies of awards photographs of his work. (AE B-M)
