After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is 36 years old,  unmarried, and  with no  children. He served  on active
duty in the U.S. Navy from February 2009 until November 2018, when he was honorably
discharged. From December 2018, he has been employed by a defense contractor. (Item
2.) In his Answer, Applicant explained that when he left the Navy in November 2018 and
became employed by a defense contractor, he took a pay cut. In addition, his job required
long  periods  at  sea.  While  at  sea,  he  had  limited  Internet  connectivity  and  only  DSN
(Defense Switched Network) phone service. That made it difficult for him to contact his
creditors. When he is shipboard, he is able to save  money as his room and board are
paid.  His plan  is to  save  funds and  pay his debts in full, which he “was able to do  with
most.”  At  the  time  of  his  December  2021  Answer,  he  had  been  at  sea  since  mid-
September 2021. (Item 1A.)
In his October 15, 2019 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), he responded as follows
when asked about his financial situation:
[His]  financial  situation   is  good   but  [he]  is  not  meeting   all   of   his
financial obligations on time.  [He] took a pay cut when  he left the Navy and
he  is having  a  hard  time  paying  his debt. [He]  has  a  job  but  he  is only  able
to  pay  necessities as he  only  gets paid when  he  is at  sea  . . . .  [Applicant
then  discussed  three  credit card accounts  in default. He said that during  one
foreign  port call, he  tried  to  contact those  creditors but had  “a hard  time.”]
[He]  was asked if  he  had any other bills or debts turned over to  a collection
agency  and  [he] said yes but he  could  not recall  the  exact debts.  . .  . [He]
was confronted with  [other defaulted  debts].  (Item 3.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant has 10 delinquent debts totaling
$43,230. (Item 1S.) The Government’s credit reports support those allegations. The SOR
debts  were  incurred  between  2018  and  2020.  (Items  4  through  7.)  Applicant  admitted
those allegations, with explanations that are discussed below. (Item 1A.)
SOR ¶ 1.a. is a credit card account charged off for $14,267. (Item 1S.) Applicant
explained  that  this  account  is  being  paid  by  a  voluntary  wage  garnishment  that  has
reduced the balance to $10,959. The September 15, 2021 wage garnishment documents
show the  total balance  due  of  $14,410,  with  no  reduction  of  the balance  due.  He also
stated that he intends to contact the creditor to arrange a payment plan once he is off sea
duty. (Item 1A.) In his Response, he stated that this account was paid in full on May 24,
2022. His document supports that claim. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b. is a collection account charged off for $12,157. (Item 1S.)  Applicant
explained that he has a payment plan for $1,000 per month.  His document shows one
payment  of  $1,000  on  November  17,  2021. (Item  1A.)  In  his  Response,  his document
shows six monthly payments from November 2021 to March 2022 that total the amount
alleged in the SOR. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶  1.c.  is a  credit card account  charged  off  for $3,165. (Item  1S.) Applicant
explained  that he  “tried  contacting  via email  but was not given  the  option  to  do  so.”  He
intended  to  pay  in full  once  he  is off  sea  duty. (1A.) In  his  Response, his document  shows
a  payment in  full  on December  9, 2021. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.d.   is  a   credit   card  account  charged   off   for  $509.  (Item   1S.)  Applicant
explained  that he  “tried  contacting  via email  but was not given  the  option  to  do  so.”  He
intended  to  pay  in full  once  he  is  off  sea  duty. (1A.)  In  his Response, his document  shows
a payment in  full on December 9, 2021. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e. is cell phone account placed for collection for $503. (Item 1S.) Applicant
explained  that  he  contacted  the  collection  agency  and  was  told  it  no  longer  had  that
account. His document advised him that the account had been returned to the original
creditor. (Item 1A.) In his Response, he stated that the original creditor had no records of
this account and that the matter was closed. (Response.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f. is a judgment  charged off for $4,188. (Item 1S.) Applicant explained
that this judgment was paid in full. His documents show that this judgment was paid in full
on November 20. 2021. (Item1A.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g. is a bank account placed for collection for $4,082. (Item 1S.) Applicant
explained  that this account was  paid in full with  a  discount for a one-time  payment on
November 17, 2021. His documents support that claim. (Item 1A.) This debt has been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.h. is an account charged off for $1,602. (Item 1S.) Applicant explained
that  this  account  was  paid  in  full  on  November  20,  2021.  His  document  supports  that
claim. (Item 1A.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.i.  is  a  medical  account  delinquent  for  $1,541.  (Item  1S.)  Applicant
explained that this account was paid in full on November 22, 2021. His document supports
that claim. (Item 1A.) This debt has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.j. is a bank account charged off for $1,216. (Item 1S.) Applicant explained
that he emailed the creditor but has not received a response. He intends to contact the
creditor and pay in full once he is off sea duty. (Item 1A.)  In his Response, his document
shows that this debt was paid in full on June 24, 2022. (Response.)
Under  Guideline  E,  SOR  ¶  2.a.  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to
disclose in his SCA the delinquent accounts listed in SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.e. (Item 1S.)
Applicant did not disclose any of the SOR debts in his SCA. (Item 2.)  He admitted this
allegation as follows:
[T]his was uncharacteristic of  me. I was confronted  with  the  facts and
told my  investigator/interviewer. I know  I made  a  mistake  and  I deeply  regret
it. I believe  I  had  a  lapse  in  judgment  when  I  did  this.  I was overwhelmed,
embarrassed, and  scared  of what may  happen  if  I lost my  job.  I understand
that that   is not   grounds  to   hold  any   information   and   it’s no   excuse.   (Item
1A.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well   established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.  As  the
that   security
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly   consistent  standard
determinations should err, if  they  must,  on  the  side  of  denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
for  a   security   clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative   guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of  law  that apply  together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of  the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
