In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.o, and 1.r-1.s, and
denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.p-1.q  and  1.t.  Her  admissions  in  her answer  are  incorporated  in  my
findings of fact.
Applicant is 63 years old, earned an associate's degree in 2013, and has worked
as a human resource specialist for a federal contractor since January 2015. She has two
adult children and is divorced.
The SOR alleges twenty delinquent debts reflected in two credit reports from July
2020 (Item 5) and November 2019 (Item 6), and two civil court judgments. (Items 7 and
8.) Applicant, with the exception of SOR ¶¶ 1.p-1.q, and 1.t, admitted each allegation and
stated she did not have the funds to pay these accounts but was working on a plan. The
evidence concerning these debts is summarized below.
SOR ¶ 1.a: unpaid 2015 judgment against Applicant the amount of $13,349.
(Item 7.) Applicant admits the debt. In her Answer, she included a letter from her daughter
concerning SOR ¶1.a. Applicant’s daughter stated the debt was incurred when Applicant
cosigned on her apartment lease to help her “during a time of economic duress.” (Item 2
at 4.) Applicant states this debt is no longer on her credit report. (Item 2 at 1.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b-j, 1.l, and 1.n:  past-due federal student loan accounts with the
Department of Education, totaling a combined $58,920. Applicant admits each debt
and each debt remains delinquent. She states her financial situation changed when she
assisted her daughter financially in 2014. Her daughter defaulted on her lease and was
incarcerated  for  financial  crimes.  Paying  her  daughter’s  legal  expenses  impacted  her
ability to meet her own financial obligations. (Item 4 at 2.) She dropped out of college at
that time with 15 credits remaining for her bachelor's degree. Her student loans were in
collection status before the COVID-19 pandemic. (Item 4 at 2 and Item 5 at 2-4.) In 2020,
she  asserts  her  financial  status  had  improved,  and  she  planned  to  contact  the  loan
department and get the education loan amount reduced closer to the original amount and
make payment arrangements. However, the COVID-19 pandemic required her to move
back home to care for her elderly parents. Her parents are now deceased. She affirms
her  intention  to  continue  with  her  original  plan  to  contact  the  student  loan  office  for
payment  arrangements  and  begin  making  them.  (Item  4  at  2.)  She  provided  a  table
showing her student loan situation for each student loan allegation and the total amount
of interest accrued. (Item 2 at 5.)
SOR ¶ 1.s: credit card debt placed for collection for $55. (Item 5 at 5.) Applicant
admits the debt. She states she had not received notice of the debt, which was incurred
in 2019 during the time she was in transition from caring for her parents. She avows it will
be paid. (Item 2 at 3.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.k, 1.m, 1.o, and 1.r: past due credit card accounts totaling $8,157.
Applicant  admits  each  debt  and  each  debt  remains  delinquent.  (Item  5  at  4-5.)  She
provided  a second table  displaying her delinquent  credit  cards amounts.  (Item 2 at 6.)
She  states  these  accounts  were  opened  about  six  years  before  her  “financial  status
decreased.”  She  asserts  she  now  maintains  one  credit  card,  which  is  used  for
emergencies and “keep in good standing.” (Item 2 at 6.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.p-q: past due credit card accounts placed for collection and SOR
¶ 1.t is a judgment, all totaling $4,110. Applicant denies these debts on the basis they
are  no  longer  listed  on  her  credit  report.  (Item  5  at  5  and  Item  8.)  She  states  further
investigation will be done on her part. (Item 2 at 3.)
Applicant did not present any information that  shows  she has paid  or otherwise
addressed her debts. She has not consulted with a professional financial planner or debt
counselor to advise her on how best to rectify her financial difficulties.
