Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  mechanical  technician,  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  2020.  He  was  unemployed  from  October  2019  to  May  2020,  and  he
previously worked as a test conductor for the same company from July 2007 to October
2019.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2000  and  obtained  a  truck  driving  school
certification in 2007. He married in 2012 and divorced in 2017. He has three children with
whom he shares custody. He has held security clearances since 2008.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  has  seven  delinquent  debts
totaling  about  $76,826  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  - 1.g).  Under  Guideline  G,  The  SOR  alleges  that
Applicant was arrested in 2010, charged, and convicted of driving while intoxicated (DUI)
and  he  was  placed  on  probation  for  three  years, fined  and  required  to  participate  in  a
three-month alcohol treatment program (SOR ¶ 2.a); and that he was arrested, charged,
and convicted of DUI in 2018, sentenced to one-day confinement, probation for 11 months
and 29 days, fined, court costs, and was required to participate in an alcohol treatment
program  (SOR  ¶  2.b).  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  without  explanations.
Applicant’s admissions and the record evidence support the SOR allegations.
In  Applicant’s  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  by  a  Government  investigator  in
September 2020, he stated that his financial difficulties arose while he was traveling for
his employer and he turned over his finances to a live-in girlfriend suffering from bipolar
disorder. He claimed that once he discovered the delinquent accounts, he terminated his
relationship and began making payments on his past-due accounts. Applicant stated his
intent to resolve all of his debts. He has not sought financial counseling.
In Applicant’s SCA, he noted that his financial problems began in January 2018.
He was warned by his company in April 2020 that he had unresolved debts. He stated
that  he  “did  some  research  and  figured  these  charges  were  due  to  my  ex.”  (SCA)  He
completed a financial interrogatory in June 2021 wherein he responded to each debt listed
in the SOR. (GE 6) With one exception, he admitted that each account was unpaid, with
no payment arrangements or payments applied. He did not attach any documents related
to the accounts except one. The exception was an account with a collection agent (SOR
¶ 1.d) that he noted was a duplicate of an account listed by the original creditor, but not
alleged  in  the  SOR.  As explained  below, the  collection  account  remains  unresolved.  He
also provided  a  portion  of a  checking  account  summary  in which he  claimed  that  he  had
cashier’s  checks   issued   to   unlisted   creditors   totaling   over  $10,000,  and   employer  pay
stubs   showing   regular  pay   in   February   2021,  and   overtime   wages  in  May   2021.  The
summary  is of  little value  as it does not list the  creditors to  whom  payments were made.
Finally,  he   provided  a  personal financial  statement  showing   no   payments  toward  SOR
debts, no  bank savings, $5,000  in investments,  and  a  car.  He has $300  in net  monthly
remainder after paying  monthly  expenses.  He  noted  that  he  is  working  overtime  in order
to pay a lump sum on the collection  account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, as noted  below.
In response to the FORM, Applicant supplied a document from the creditor that
appears  to  correspond  to  SOR  ¶  1.a,  a  credit-card  company  debt  for  $22,005.  The
document shows the account is cancelled with an outstanding balance of $21,443, with
partial payments  of  varying  amounts made  from  March  to  July  2022.  Applicant’s  2020
credit bureau report (CBR) shows the account was charged off in July 2020 and closed
by the credit grantor. (GE 4) Applicant’s March 2021 CBR shows the last activity on the
account in April 2018.
Applicant  also  supplied  a  document from  a  creditor that  appears to  correspond  to
SOR ¶  1.b,  a  charged-off  credit-card account  for approximately  $16,746.  The  document
is an  account statement from  June  2021  for an  account by  the  same  creditor but with  a
partial account number that does not match  the  account in SOR ¶  1.b, as supported  by
CBRs in the  record. Applicant’s March  2021  CBR shows the  last  activity  on  the  account
was in April  2018. The  statement shows a  zero  balance  on  a  closed  account with  the  last
payment  of $1,766.93  in June  2020.  Applicant  partially  redacted  the full  account  number
on the  document  he  submitted,  and  it does  little to mitigate SOR ¶  1.b  as  it is  impossible
to  determine, without more information, whether it is the  same  account as alleged  in the
SOR.
SOR ¶ 1.d – Collection account for approximately $10,502. In Applicant’s response
to financial interrogatories,  he noted that he had a payment plan for this account. The
document he sent to support the payment plan was an offer to repay the account to the
collection agent in two separate payment plans. He noted on the document that he has
saved $2,500 so far, and intends to save $6,000 to apply to one of the offered options;
however, no documentation of payment was offered. The account is not resolved.
No  other documents  were  submitted  regarding  efforts to  resolve  the  SOR  debts,
payment plans, or financial counseling. Applicant stated  in  his  response  to  interrogatories
that  his  debts arose  from  his former  girlfriend  not  paying  bills and  maximizing  charges on
his credit  cards  while  he  was traveling  for ten  months  for his company  (he  did not  disclose
the  dates of travel). He noted  that  he  was previously  debt free  with  a  good  credit score.
He reiterated  that  he  has paid  over $10,000  toward debts,  but  did not disclose  to  whom
the   payments   were  made.   He   takes  responsibility   for  the   debts   and   is   determined   to
resolve  them,  but 2021  was a difficult  year because  of his  mother’s relocation  to another
state.
Applicant  was  arrested,  charged,  and  convicted  of  DUI  in  2010  and  2018.  He
disclosed  in  his  SCA  that  he  was  found  guilty  of  misdemeanor  DUI  in  2010,  and  was
sentenced  to  three-years’  probation,  fined,  and  required  to  attend  three  months  of
classes.  He  noted  “everything  has  been  taken  care  of  and  resolved,”  and  that  he
completed alcohol classes in January 2011. (SCA, GE 8) In his PSI, he stated that the
2018 incident resulted from him driving after “drinking some beers.” He did not recall the
results of his blood alcohol test. He pleaded guilty to misdemeanor (second degree) DUI,
and was sentenced to one-year probation, fined, and was to complete three months of
alcohol-abuse classes. He said he  completed  all  of  the  court’s requirements, including
completing the alcohol classes in January 2019. (SCA, GEs 7 and 8) He did not provide
documentary  information  on  the  status  of  his  probation,  the  type  or  frequency  of  the
alcohol  classes  he  attended  or  certifications  of  their  completion,  or  evidence  showing
completion of individual alcohol-related counseling or treatment program. Since 2018, he
continues to drink socially, about two drinks every two weeks.
