The SOR alleges under Guideline G (SOR ¶ 1), and cross-alleges under Guideline
J (SOR ¶ 3.a) and Guideline E (SOR ¶ 4.f), that Applicant was arrested for driving under
the influence (DUI) offenses in February 2014 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and September 2018 (SOR ¶
1.b), and for operating under the influence (hereafter DUI) in October 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.c).
Under Guideline H (SOR ¶ 2.a), and cross-alleged under Guideline J (SOR ¶ 3.a) and
Guideline E (SOR ¶ 4.a), Applicant is alleged to have been arrested in February 2014,
while granted access to classified information, and charged with possession of less than
one-half ounce of cannabis.
Under  Guideline  E,  Applicant  is  also  alleged  to  have  falsified  a  May  17,  2017
Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) by not disclosing the 2014
marijuana possession charge in response to the police record inquiries (SOR ¶ 4.a) and
by denying any illegal drug involvement in response to a question concerning any drug
use while possessing a security clearance (SOR ¶ 4.b). Applicant is also alleged to have
concealed the September 2018 and October 2018 DUI offenses and the 2014 marijuana
possession  charge  when  questioned  during  his  December  2019  PSI  (SOR  ¶  4.c).
Additionally, Applicant allegedly failed to self-report his September 2018 (SOR ¶ 4.d) and
October 2018 (SOR ¶ 4.e) DUIs to his FSO.
Applicant denied all of the allegations when he responded to the SOR, including
the  DUIs,  which  he  denied  on  the  basis  that  he  had  passed  the  outpatient  programs
without incident and no recurrence since the October 2018 offense. He explained about
the marijuana charge that he was ticketed $50, but that the marijuana was left in his car
by  a  former  colleague.  He  asserted  he  had  forgotten  about  the  ticket  for  marijuana
possession,  and  he  denied  any  intentional  concealment  of  his  DUIs  or  the  marijuana
charge.
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  high  school  graduate,  who  subsequently  completed
vocational  training  in  July  2005.  (GE  2.)  He  worked  as  a  technician  in  the  automotive
repair industry for over a decade before going to work in equipment repair for his current
employer, a defense contractor, in late May 2017. (AE A; Tr. 56.) He served honorably as
a wheeled vehicle mechanic with a clearance in the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) from May
2007 to June or July 2020. (GE 1; Tr. 49-50, 56-57.) He has never married and has no
children. (GE 1; Tr. 56.)
On November 14, 2006, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an e-QIP
in application for a secret clearance for his Army enlistment. He listed two speeding tickets
from September 2005 and September 2006, but no other issues. (GE 2.) He was granted
a secret clearance for his duties in the military. (GE 1.)
On February 23, 2014, Applicant was stopped by the police in the parking lot of a
local  convenience  store.  He  exhibited  signs  of  intoxication,  including  glassy  eyes  and
slurred  speech.  He  told  the  police  he  had  consumed  four  beers  at  a  local  pub  and
admitted that he was “inebriated.”  The police directed him to a dry portion of the sidewalk.
After failing field sobriety tests, he was arrested for DUI. During an inventory search of
Applicant’s vehicle, the police found marijuana and two glass pipes containing marijuana
under his driver’s seat; marijuana residue in his center console; and a marijuana grinder
in the pocket of his driver’s door. (GE 5.) Applicant was subsequently charged with DUI
and possession of less than one half ounce of cannabis, first offense. He was fined $50
for  the  marijuana  charge.  (GE  3;  Tr.  48.)  Applicant  asserts  that  he  was  told  by  the
prosecutor that “it was the equivalent of a parking ticket with a $50 fine.” (Tr. 48.) For the
DUI, he was required to attend 15 alcohol-education classes. On his completion of the
classes, the charge was dismissed and his record was sealed. (GE 3.) He asserts that
his command in the USAR was aware of his arrest. (Tr. 51.)
On May 17, 2017, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an e-QIP for the
security clearance needed for his current employment. In response to the police record
inquiries,  he  reported  his  2014  arrest  for  DUI  and  indicated  that  he  had  to  attend  15
classes for the offense. He did not disclose that he had also been charged with, and fined
for, marijuana possession, and responded negatively to questions regarding illegal use
of drugs or drug activity including the following:
Have  you  EVER  illegally  used  or otherwise  been  involved  with  a drug  or
controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  other  than
previously listed? (GE 1.)
Applicant’s clearance eligibility was renewed through the military about four or five months
after he submitted his e-QIP, and it was transferred for his work with a defense contractor.
(Tr. 60.)
On September 23, 2018, Applicant was on a business trip in another state for his
employer when he was pulled over for not having his headlights on. He told the police
that he had consumed three beers with dinner, but he had a strong odor of alcohol about
him and slurred speech. He failed field sobriety testing and was arrested for DUI. At the
police station, his blood alcohol content (BAC) tested at .14% by breathalyzer. (GE 4.)
Applicant  pled  guilty  to  DUI,  was  fined  $460,  and  ordered  to  attend  alcohol-education
classes  within  one  year.  As  of  December  4,  2019,  he  had  not  completed  the  required
alcohol-education classes as he was asking the court to accept classes taken as a result
of a subsequent DUI offense, committed in October 2018 in his state. (GE 3.)
Applicant consumed about four to five beers at a bar while out on a date in October
2018. He and his date drove separately, and he did not feel too impaired to drive safely.
He was pulled over while exiting a highway on suspicion of drunk driving. Applicant told
the  officer  that  he  had  consumed  some  alcohol  on  a  date,  and  he  failed  field  sobriety
tests. He was arrested for DUI and brought to the police station. Applicant recalls that his
breathalyzer result showed a .12% BAC. In April 2019, his driver’s license was suspended
pending the installation of an Interlock device  on his vehicle, which he had installed in
November 2019. He was placed on probation for 18 months, and was required to attend
eight  alcohol-education  classes,  and  complete  100  hours  of  community  service.  As  of
December 2019, he had attended seven alcohol-education classes but had yet to start
his  community  service  or  complete  the  alcohol-education  classes  required  for  his
September 2018 DUI in another state. (GE 3.)
On December 4, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator,
who  confirmed  that  Applicant  was  very  nervous.  (Tr.  26-27.)  When  asked  about  his
disclosed February 2014 DUI arrest, Applicant stated that he had consumed three to four
beers while playing video games in his home before driving to a local convenience store.
He claimed that he failed only one field sobriety test in that he could not walk a straight
line because of ice on the ground. He denied that any drugs were involved in that arrest;
that  he  ever  used  any  illegal  drugs;  and  that  he  had  an  additional criminal  charges  to
report since completing his e-QIP in May 2017. (GE 3; Tr. 19.) Additional questioning by
the investigator elicited an admission and details from Applicant about his October 2018
DUI, including that his BAC tested at .12% and that he was on 18 months of probation.
He  expressed  regret  for  the  incident,  but  asserted  that  he  did  not  believe  he  has  an
alcohol problem. (GE 3.)
When  asked  again  by  the  investigator  about  any  additional  arrests  or  any
association with drugs or drug-related arrests, Applicant responded negatively. (GE 3; Tr.
19-20.) He was then confronted about the February 2014 marijuana possession charge.
Applicant asserted that the marijuana found in his vehicle belonged to a former co-worker
who must have dropped it in his vehicle, although he also stated that he had never seen
this co-worker use or possess an illegal drug. Applicant expressed that he pled guilty to
possession  of  marijuana  because  the  drug  was  in  his  vehicle,  and  he  paid  a  fine.  He
denied  any  intention  to  conceal  the  drug  charge,  and  explained  that  he  had  forgotten
about it when he completed his e-QIP and when questioned during his PSI. (GE 3.)
After discussing the drug charge with the investigator, Applicant again denied any
additional arrests or charges involving drugs or alcohol before additional questioning by
the investigator disclosed his arrest for DUI while out of state on business in September
2018. (GE 3; Tr. 20-21.) He explained that he believed he passed field sobriety testing,
but  admitted  that  he  “blew  a  .12  failing  the  [breathalyzer]  test.”  He  admitted  that,  in
February 2019, he pled guilty to DUI, paid a $460 fine, and was sentenced to complete
alcohol-education classes within one year. He explained that he had not disclosed  the
arrest in response to previous questioning because he was scared that it would adversely
affect  his  security  clearance  eligibility.  He  stated  that  he  reported  the  incident  to  his
supervisor,  co-workers,  and military command,  but not  to his FSO because  he did not
know that it  was  required.  (GE 3.)  The investigator recalls  that  Applicant provided  him
with contact information for his military chain of command and for his civilian department
head, who could corroborate his self-report (Tr. 27), and that Applicant told him that he
did not know he had to notify his FSO. (Tr. 31-32.)
The  investigator  flagged  Applicant  as  having  questionable  integrity  because  he
had to question Applicant numerous times, and had to confront him with the evidence of
the  charges  before  Applicant  provided  the  information  about  his  2018  DUIs  and  2014
drug charge. (Tr. 22-23.) However, the investigator believes that, after Applicant admitted
that he  had  not  disclosed  his September 2018  DUI  because of  fear it  would  affect his
clearance, Applicant was “as transparent as possible with [him] after the fact in regards
to self-admitting.” (Tr. 23.)
Applicant testified about his PSI as follows:
As the  interview  went along, yes, I was very nervous. It  was an  interview
that randomly  came  up  with  no  knowledge  of  anything  that was occurring.
So   yes,  I  was  absolutely   nervous.  And   I  do   not  believe   I  was  asked   that
many   times   to   recollect.   From   my   memory   I   do   remember  Special   Agent
[name  omitted] asking  me  was there anything  else.  And  I stuttered  when  I
told him. And  told him  about the  DUIs.  And  my   verbiage  at the  end  was,
yes, I am  aware that  these  can  affect  your security  clearance  that’s why  that
makes  me  nervous. Not the  fact that I  was hiding  it made  me  nervous. So
that was also a  clear misinterpretation  of  what I was saying  or what I thought
I clearly  came  across with  towards him. And  still, I was very  nervous of  what
was going on, not knowing what was going on. Because this process has
also, the actual investigation is also, came up when it started in 2020. Has
also stopped me from reenlisting in the [USAR]. (Tr. 49-50.)
Applicant testified at his hearing that he never tried to hide his DUIs from anybody
and that he “clearly and openly” talked to his bosses and co-workers as a group. He also
testified  that  he  made  his  motor  sergeant,  platoon  sergeant,  first  sergeant,  and
commander in the USAR aware of his DUIs because he knew they could affect his career.
(Tr. 51.) He asserts that he was told by his co-workers to make sure he reported any DUIs
on  his  e-QIP.  (Tr.  52-53.)  As  for  his  alleged  concealment  of  the  marijuana  charge,
Applicant testified as follows:
And   [the   special  agent]   asked   me   several  times  about  the   marijuana.   I
honestly   didn’t  remember   that  charge.  Or  that  ticket.   Because   my
information was that it was a ticket so I could throw that out of  my memory.
The  thing  to  worry  about was the  DUI and  making  sure  that got  out  on  my
e-QIP. And  then  going  from my  DUIs,  making sure I don’t get another one.
(Tr. 53.)
When asked on cross-examination to explain why he did not tell the investigator
about  his  2018  DUIs  when  asked  about  any  additional  alcohol  offenses,  Applicant
responded that he did inform the investigator. As to why he had to be questioned so many
times,  Applicant  disputed  that  the  interview  went  as  the  investigator  reported  in  his
summary (GE 3) and testified. Applicant maintains he never denied any other arrests (Tr.
59), and provided the following account of the PSI:
I’m  saying  that’s not  what happened. The  way  he  was asking  the  questions
is not  the  way  that  that  is written  down. Because  the  way  he  was asking  me
the  questions  is, are you  sure, and  I  said,  I’m  sorry, let  me  correct that.  He
asked   me,  is   there  anything   else.   And   I   can   adamantly   say,  I  wasn’t
reluctant  but nervously saying  yes there is,  there was this, Okay, is there
anything  else.  Still  reluctantly  saying, yes. Because  I’m  nervous as hell. (Tr.
61.)
During his December 2019 PSI, Applicant expressed a belief that he does not have
an alcohol problem. He attributed his DUI arrests to bad luck. He initially described his
current  alcohol  consumption  as  four  to  five  12-ounce  beers  within  a  four  to  five-hour
period once weekly, usually on the weekends, and said that has been his drinking pattern
before and after his February 2014 DUI. Later during his PSI, Applicant reportedly said
that  he  was  drinking  four  to  five  beers  approximately  once  a  month.  (GE  3.)  Neither
Applicant nor the investigator was asked about the discrepancy. At his June 2022 hearing,
Applicant described his current consumption as “maybe one beer on a Friday.” (Tr. 68.)
He explained that he drank out of habit, and that once he resumed raising animals and
doing  his  community  service  and  other  activities  that  he  enjoys,  he  found  his  drinking
habit easy to break. (Tr. 71.)
The alcohol-education classes required for the October 2018 DUI were apparently
accepted in fulfillment of the alcohol-education required by the out-of-state court for his
September  2018  DUI.  (Tr.  72.)  Applicant  admitted  triggering  his  Interlock  device  in
December 2019, when he consumed some alcohol-laced egg nog. (Tr. 71-72.) He was
originally  ordered  to  have  an  Interlock  device  on  his  vehicle  for  two  years,  but  it  was
extended to five years  because he missed two calibrations, which each added a year,
and he  drove  a  vehicle  without  an Interlock device  in  July 2020,  which  added  another
year. (Tr. 74-75.)
In  October 2021, Applicant  was pulled  over while  driving  to  work in  a  new  car  for
him.  He did  not have  an  Interlock  device in  the  vehicle,  and  was charged  with  driving  on
a  suspended  license.  He testified  that he  thought he  was no  longer subject  to  the  Interlock
requirement based  on  paperwork that he  had  and  that he  did  not know  his license  had
been  suspended. He testified  there is  conflict  between  the  Interlock device provider and
the  state  as to  whether he  had  the  device removed. He paid a  fine  for  texting  while  driving
and   had   the   Interlock  device  installed   (Tr.  77-78),  but  he   is  having   problems  with   the
device.  He  has  been   reported   three   times,   most   recently   in  about   February   2022,   for
violating  the Interlock. He asserts it  is due  to faulty  installation  in that  if he  leaves the  car
with  the  lights on, the  Interlock is recorded  as  still  being  on  (“if  you  leave  the  lights on  and
walk away  the  machine  is still  going  and  it reported  him  as missing  a  breath.”). (Tr. 79-
80.) He explained  that he  has not had  the  wiring  of  the  device inspected  because  he  has
to take time  from work. (Tr. 80-81.) He does not want to be  accused  of tampering so  has
not tried  to  correct the issue. (Tr. 81.)  The driving  while license  suspended  charge  is still
pending, and he has appeared  four times in court on that charge. (Tr. 78.)
Applicant performed his community service for his October 2018 DUI by providing
assistance to a local Boy Scout troop starting in June 2020. He continued to volunteer
after completing his community service, and as of June 2022 he had provided over 250
hours. The scoutmaster attested to his completion of those hours. She has no knowledge
of  any  information  that  would  compromise  Applicant’s  status  with  the  scouting
organization. (AE B.) Applicant has been a registered den leader for a Cub Scout pack
for the past six months. (Tr. 54-55.)
Applicant denies any use of marijuana. He testified that he was subjected to drug
testing  by  urinalysis  primarily  once  a  month  during  his  13  years  in  the  USAR,  and  he
never  failed  a  drug  screen.  (Tr.  50-51.)  He  testified  to  recalling  that  the  police  found
marijuana  “hidden  underneath  the  passenger  seat”  of  his  vehicle.  (Tr.  64.)  When
confronted with the police report of marijuana being in a glass jar under the driver’s seat,
Applicant  responded,  “I  thought  it  was  under  the  passenger  seat,  but  it  was  not  my
marijuana.” As for the police finding glass pipes with burnt marijuana in the center console
of his vehicle, Applicant stated, “They weren’t mine, so they had to have been his.” (Tr.
65.) As for the grinder found in the pocket of the driver’s door, Applicant explained:
In the interview I stated that I gave [his former co-worker] a ride earlier and
dropped him off at a place called [pub name omitted] where he waited for a
ride. I waited with him, then I went home and played video games. I was
drinking at my house and then went to the [convenience store] to where i
got pulled over. (Tr. 65.)
Applicant maintains that he did not know any of the drug paraphernalia had been in his
car before he was provided a copy of the police report by DOHA Department Counsel as
he had only paid a $50 “ticket” in court. (Tr. 66.)
Character References
Applicant’s chief union steward authored a character reference letter for Applicant
(AE A) and also testified (Tr. 38-46.) The union steward has worked for their employer
since 1989 and has a secret clearance. He has been a union steward for 15 years, and
president  and  chief  steward  of  the  union  “going  on  seven  years  now.”  (Tr.  40-42.)  He
testified that he did not understand until a couple of months ago that employees have a
duty to self-report information that could affect security clearance eligibility. (Tr. 40.) The
chief steward previously understood that it is when individuals come up for the ten-year
review of their clearance that they are required to be forthcoming about everything that
has happened understood “within the first ten years and the second.” (Tr. 39.) The chief
steward recalled an issue involving an employee who had an incident  while intoxicated
that  the employee  reported  to  his supervisor  and not  the  FSO,  but he  could  not  recall
whether their employer took any steps to inform employees of a duty to self-report to the
FSO. (Tr. 43-44.) The chief steward believes that he is “probably not” required to report
a union member who informs him of a legal problem, but he would advise him or her to
inform  his or her  supervisor.  (Tr. 44-45.)  The  chief  steward  attests  that  Applicant  “has
been  a  model  employee  gaining  respect  of  management,  fellow  employees,  and  [his]
entire team of union officers.” (AE A.)
Applicant  provided  character  reference  letters  from  five  co-workers  (AEs  C-G),
who attest to it being common knowledge that Applicant was arrested for DUI while on a
road job for their employer in 2018. A co-worker who works with Applicant on a daily basis
recalled  hearing  in  2018  about  Applicant’s  arrest.  He  indicated  that  Applicant  was
forthright  about  the arrest  when  questioned  on  his  return,  and  that  Applicant  was  also
candid about his subsequent DUI. This co-worker stated that if it was common knowledge
to notify their FSO of arrests, he would have asked Applicant if he had self-reported and
encouraged  him  to do so.  He  asserts  that  Applicant has  taken  positive  steps  to  better
himself  in  the  last  five  years  and  requests  consideration  of  the  negative  impact  on
Applicant’s personal growth should he lose his clearance. (AE E.)
