The amended SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used (SOR ¶ 1.a) and
purchased (SOR ¶ 1.b) marijuana with varying frequency from August 2019 to present,
including after he completed an Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing
(hereafter  SF  86)  on  April  12,  2021  (SOR  ¶  1.c),  and  he  intends  to  continue  to  use
marijuana in the future (SOR ¶ 1.d). When Applicant responded to the SOR, he admitted
the allegations and stated that his uses and purchases were legal under state law. He
explained that he used marijuana recreationally, during non-working hours, and his drug
involvement was candidly disclosed.
Applicant’s  admissions  to  using  and  purchasing  marijuana,  including  since
completing his SF 86, and to intending to continue using marijuana, are accepted and
incorporated in my factual findings. After considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript,
I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  39-year-old principal technical-support engineer with  a  bachelor’s
degree earned in May 2005.  (GE 1; Tr. XX.) He has never married and has no children.
(GE 1; Tr. 15.)
Applicant worked as an implementation engineer after college from May 2005 to
January 2013, when he was laid off by his then employer during a reduction in force. (GE
1.) He held a DOD secret clearance from about 2007 to 2012. (Tr. 13.) He then worked
part time as a software support developer until January 2014. He did not need a clearance
in  that  position  so  his  clearance  eligibility  lapsed.  (Tr.  16.)  In  March  2014,  he  began
working for his current employer, a defense contractor. (GE 1; Tr.15.)
Needing  a  security  clearance  for  a  new  project  with  his  employer,  Applicant
completed an SF 86 on April 12, 2021. (GE 1; Tr. 13.) In response to an SF 86 inquiry
concerning any illegal drug use in the last seven years, Applicant reported that he engaged
in  recreational marijuana  use  between  August  2019  and  April 2021.  He  described  the
frequency of his use as “[d]aily partial smoking of a marijuana joint outside/after the work
day.” He responded “Yes” as to his intent regarding future use of the drug and explained
that adult recreational use is legal in his state. Applicant answered “No” to an SF 86 inquiry
into any illegal drug activity, including any involvement in the illegal purchase of a drug or
controlled substance in the last seven years. (GE 1.)
On  July  20,  2021,  Applicant  had  a  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with  an
authorized  investigator  for  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant
explained that he began using marijuana in August 2019, when it became legal to do so in
his state, and that he continued to use it daily since then. He used the drug to relax after
work either alone in his residence or with friends at social gatherings in the friends’ homes.
He stated that he planned to continue to use it, even if granted a security clearance, as he
did  not  want  to  alter his lifestyle and especially because it is legal in his state.  When
advised  that  use  of  marijuana  was  not  allowed  while  having  access  to  sensitive  or
classified information on a federal contract, Applicant stated that he would still continue to
use marijuana, as he had been candid about his use on his SF 86 and during his PSI.
Applicant reported that he had purchased marijuana three to five times, spending about
$100 per occasion, from legal dispensaries in his state since August 2019. He added that
he has been gifted some marijuana from a friend who grows the drug and “has so much of
it.” He accepted the drug from his friend only since his state legalized the possession and
use of marijuana. (GE 2.)
In response to DOHA drug interrogatories, Applicant disclosed on September 7,
2021, that he used marijuana daily from August 2019 to September 2021, and that he
intended to continue using marijuana. He admitted that he associates with persons who
use  marijuana  or frequents places where marijuana  is used  and  added, “when  visiting
some friends’ houses, (once a week or less) [and] concerts (3-4 times a year).” He stated
that he does not use any other illegal substance under federal law and would not do so. He
responded affirmatively regarding any purchases, and stated that he purchased cannabis
occasionally from state “recreational/adult-use facilities spending around $100.” He did not
recall  the  specific  date  of  his  last  purchase  other  than  that  it  was  in  2021.  Applicant
expressed his intention to continue to use cannabis in accord with state law; to purchase it
occasionally from licensed retailers; and to receive gifts of the drug, and added, “There
would be no purchase, sale, or use of any other drugs.” (GE 2.)
At his hearing, Applicant explained that he was first introduced to marijuana while
socializing with a friend who is in a reggae band. (Tr. 20.) He continues to “enjoy cannabis
in a very small way, off work, never during  work hours.”  (Tr. 13.)  His use of marijuana
occurred only in states where adult recreational use is legal. (Tr. 17.) He understands that
marijuana use and possession is illegal under federal law. When asked why he decided to
use marijuana knowing of its illegality under federal law, Applicant responded that, “at the
time, [he] had really no other reason not to.” It was decriminalized and then also legalized.
(Tr. 17-18.) He intends to continue to use marijuana, knowing that it remains the DOD’s
position that marijuana use is incompatible with holding a security clearance. (Tr. 19-21.)
He does not believe that his off-duty use of cannabis adversely affects his ability to handle
sensitive or classified information. (Tr. 14.) He asserted that he would never use marijuana
at work and not while working with classified information. (Tr. 14, 21-22.) He does not
perceive  his  drug  use  as  compromising  his  trustworthiness  and  ability  to  safeguard
sensitive information. (Tr. 22.) His manager is aware that he uses marijuana. The manager
told him it would be in his best interest to stop using marijuana but did not tell him that he
would be required to cease his marijuana use to obtain a clearance. (Tr. 22-23.)
