Applicant is a 65-year-old married man with three adult children. Three previous
marriages ended in divorce. (GE 1 at 30-31) He earned a high school diploma and has
earned  some  community  college  credits.  (Tr.  23)   He  has  been  supporting  the  military
as  an  information  technology  contractor  since  1984,  and  has  held  a  clearance  for
approximately 20 years. (Tr. 19, 22)
Applicant’s wife is a native of the People’s Republic of China. (PRC) Applicant is
her  third  husband.  Her  previous  marriages  ended  in  divorce.  Applicant’s  wife  has
permanent  legal  residence  status  in  the  United  States  and  lives  with  him.  (Tr.  37)  He
met her through an online dating app in 2014. (Tr. 25) She was a legal U.S. resident at
the  time.  (Tr.  25)  Applicant  and  his  wife  married  approximately  two  years  later  on
Valentine’s Day of 2016.
Currently,  Applicant’s  wife  splits  her  time  working  part-time  as  an  online
Mandarin  tutor  and  at  an  assisted  living  facility.  When  Applicant  met  her,  she  was
spending  the  majority  of  her  time  living  in  the  PRC  working  as  a  university  professor,
specializing  in  mental  wellness  for  the  elderly.  (Tr.  28)  Applicant’s  wife  continued  to
spend the majority of her time in the PRC after they married. (Tr. 29-30) Applicant’s wife
retired in March 2021 after she became eligible to receive a PRC-government pension.
(Tr. 30)
Applicant’s  wife  owns  a  condominium  in  PRC  worth  approximately  $140,000.
(Answer at 2)] She brought it shortly after she divorced her first husband. (Tr. 35) She
already owned the property when she married her second husband, with whom she was
married when she immigrated to the United States approximately ten years ago. When
they divorced in a U.S. state court, her second husband formally acknowledged that he
had no ownership right to the condominium. The PRC, however, will not allow her to sell
the  condominium  without  the  agreement  of  the  second  husband.  Applicant’s  wife  has
been  unable  to  locate  the  second  husband  and  suspects  he  is  deceased.  When  she
traveled to the PRC most recently in 2017, the PRC government agreed to allow her to
sell  the  condominium  if  she  obtained  a  certified  copy  of  the  divorce  decree.  (Tr.  46)
Applicant’s  wife  obtained  one,  but  has  been  unable  to  return  to  the  PRC  since  the
COVID crisis. (Tr. 39) While the sales process has been pending, Applicant’s wife has
been  renting  it.  Applicant  does  not  know  how  much  his  wife  is  receiving  in  rental
payments. (Tr. 36)
Applicant’s  wife  intends  to  become  a  United  States  citizen,  but  is  waiting  until
after  she  sells  the  condominium.  Per  Applicant,  if  she  became  a  U.S.  citizen,  it  would
complicate the sales process because PRC law discourages foreigners from engaging
in PRC real estate transactions. (Tr. 38)
Applicant’s  stepson  is  in  his  mid-twenties.  (GE  1  at  34)  He  is  a  citizen  of  the
PRC. He immigrated to the United States with his parents approximately ten years ago.
Subsequently,  he  graduated  from  high  school  and  college  in  the  United  States.
Currently,  he  lives  in  the  United  States  in  a  townhouse  owned  by  his  mother  and
Applicant, and pays them rent. (Tr. 80)
Applicant’s  parents-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the  PRC.  Applicant’s
father-in-law  worked  for  the  PRC’s  department  of  agriculture.  (Tr.  30)  He  is  retired.
Applicant  is  not  sure  what  his  mother-in-law  did  for  a  living.  Applicant’s  parents-in-law
are in extremely poor health. His wife talks to them approximately every other day and
uses her Chinese pension to pay their medical expenses. (Tr. 41, 43)
Applicant’s  wife  maintains  a  bank  account  in  PRC  to  help  her  parents.  (Tr.  31)
The  account  has  a  balance  of  approximately  $24,000.  (Tr.  31)  Her  PRC  pension  is
deposited into this account.
Applicant’s home is worth approximately $525,000.  (Tr. 48) He has $40,000 in a
checking account and $6,000 deposited in a savings account. (Tr. 49)
Administrative Notice
The PRC is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party. (HE I
at 1) is the paramount authority. (HE I at 1) The PRC is one of the most active collectors
of illicitly gained technology in the world. (HE 1 at 1) The PRC National Intelligence law
of 2017 forms the baseline of the modern data collection regime and compels all PRC
firms and entities to support, assist, and cooperate with the PRC intelligence services,
creating  a  legal  obligation  for  those  entities  to  turn  over  data  collected  abroad  and
domestically to the PRC. (HE IV at 6) The PRC government has the legal and physical
capability to compel any Chinese citizen to turn over information. (HE IV at 1) The PRC
has  expansive  efforts in  place to  acquire  U.S.  technology,  and  continues  to use  cyber
espionage to support its strategic development goals. (HE V at 1) Most cyber operations
against  U.S. private  industry that have  been  detected  are focused  on  cleared defense
contractors or information technology firms. (HE V at 40)
