Applicant, 39, is the co-owner of a federal contracting company that has been in
operation since 2011. As the Chief Operating Officer (COO), he is a key management
personnel  (KMP)  and  is  required  to  maintain  a  security  clearance  for  the  company’s
facility  security  clearance.  He  was  initially  granted  access  to  classified  information  in
2007  as  a  DOD  civilian  employee.  He  was  reinvestigated  again  in  2012  for  his
company’s facility clearance eligibility. In advance of his most recent security clearance
periodic  reinvestigation,  he  reported  to  his  FSO  that  he  used  marijuana/THC  products
on four occasions between 2015 and 2018. The FSO filed an incident report in the Joint
Personnel  Adjudication  System  (JPAS).  Applicant  completed  his  most  recent  security
clearance  application  in  March  2019,  disclosing  his  history  of  illegal  drug  use.
Applicant’s drug  use  serves as the  basis for  the  SOR allegation.  (Tr. 16-18, 39-40 46;
GE 1-2)
Applicant  lives  in  a  state  where  marijuana  is  legal.  In  2015,  his  wife,  in
preparation of a series of serious medical procedures, was investigating whether or not
to use THC as an aid as she recovered from her upcoming surgeries. The couple used
the  drug  together  in  December  2015.  Ultimately,  she  decided  against  marijuana  use
during  her  recovery.  Days  later  on  New  Year’s  Eve,  he  used  the  drug  with  friends.
Applicant  and  his  wife  used  the  drug  together  on  two  more  occasions,  once  in  June
2016 and again in March 2018. Although he was required to maintain national security
eligibility as a KMP for his company, he did not work directly for the company between
December  2013  and  October  2016.  When  he  returned  to  full-time  work  with  the
company in 2016, he did not work in support of any federal contracts or on client-facing
projects. (Tr. 20-23; GE 4; Answer)
When the  company  FSO  contacted  Applicant  in  December 2018 to  alert  him  to
his upcoming periodic reinvestigation,  Applicant decided to contact a lawyer for advice
on  how  to  handle  the  potentially  disqualifying  information  related  to  his  drug  use.
Following  the  advice  of  his  attorney,  Applicant  reported  his  drug  use  to  the  FSO,  the
company’s  CEO,  a  close  friend,  and  five  industry  colleagues,  all  of  whom  wrote
character letters on his behalf, citing his trustworthiness and integrity. Because he had
to travel to appear at the hearing, Applicant also explained the reason for his trip to his
young children  who  were  concerned about his impending absence  and  accompanying
stress level. He explained to them that he made a mistake and that he had to address it.
(Tr. 21-22, 27-29; GE 3; Answer)
On  his own,  Applicant procured  an  evaluation  from  a  certified  substance abuse
counselor. The counselor opined that Applicant did not meet the requirement under the
DSM-5  criteria  for  substance  use  disorder  and  did  not  recommend  any  course  of
treatment. Applicant also submitted to two urinalysis tests in January 2019, which were
negative for illegal substances. (Tr. 33-34; Answer)
Applicant  has  not  used  marijuana  since  March  2018.  He  submitted  a  signed
statement  of  intent  to  refrain  from  drug  use  in  the  future.  His  wife  witnessed  the
statement, indicating that she will support Applicant in his decision to abstain from future
use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 32-33)
