Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  four  children.  He  has  been
employed as a chief technical officer since August 2010. He reports no military service.
(Item 3) Applicant has held a security clearance for more than a decade. He completed
his latest security clearance application (SCA) on May 5, 2021.
The SOR alleged, under Guideline H, that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from  about January 2000,  to  the  present  (1.a);  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency from 2014 to the present, while granted access to classified information  1.b;
was arrested in about August 2005 and charged with possession of marijuana (1.c); and
intends to continue using marijuana in the future. (1.d) In his Answer, Applicant admitted
the  SOR  allegations  under  Guideline  H  with  explanations.  The  SOR  alleged,  under
Guideline  E,  that  Applicant  falsified  his  March  9,  2011  SCA  by failing  to  report  his  full
illegal  drug  usage  in  the  last  seven  years  in  response  to  Section  23.  (2.a);  and  his
January  26,  2010  SCA  by  stating  that  his  2005  arrest  was  the  only  time  that  he  had
used marijuana  (2.b); and  it  also  cross alleged  the information from  SOR  1.b and  1.d.
Applicant admitted the Guideline E allegations with explanations. (Item 1)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations ¶¶1.a through
1.d,  as  stated  above.  He  stated  that  his  occasional  use  of  marijuana  did  not
compromise his reliability, trustworthiness, integrity, or dedication to the United States.
He  emphasized  that  he  never  used  or  had  been  under  the  influence  during  work  or
while  accessing  classified  information.  He  claimed  that  he  stopped  using  marijuana
completely  from  about  2011  to  2014,  while  working  for  the  Federal  Government.  He
stated that he stopped due to agency regulations. Applicant emphasized that his arrest
occurred over 15 years ago and that the record was expunged over ten years ago. He
further  noted  that  this was  the  only incident  he  ever  had  with  law  enforcement.  In  the
final part of his answer, he stated that his expected use will be “consistent with past use,
which  will be  occasional and  limited.”  Applicant stated that  “his openness and honesty
about his past, present, and future use of marijuana should prove that he is trustworthy
and deserving of a favorable determination.” (Item 2)
As  to  the  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  2.a  through  2.c,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  only
disclosed  on  his  2011  SCA  the  2005  arrest  for  marijuana  but  not  the  other  times  he
used marijuana. It was his understanding that the use of marijuana would always result
in an unfavorable adjudication. He was “worried that if he answered “Yes”, he would not
receive  a  clearance  and  lose  his  job,  not  be  able  to  take  care  of  his family  or pay  his
mortgage. (Item 2)
Applicant completed his most recent SCA on May 5, 2021. (Item 3) He disclosed
two  decades  of  marijuana  use  and  indicated  his  intent  to  cease  his  further  use  of
marijuana” on an unspecified date in  the  future, as  he  values his clearance above  the
occasional use of marijuana. (Government Response to Applicant’s  FORM Response);
(Item 6) He admitted on his own  volition  that  he  was  not candid  in describing his past
marijuana use on his latest SCA. He asserted that he was forthcoming and honest in his
answer to the May 2022 SOR issued to him, aware that his doing so may result in his
loss of a security clearance. (Item 2)
In Applicant’s response to his first SCA in 2010, he disclosed his 2005 arrest for
possession of marijuana and resisting arrest, as required. (Item 5). Ultimately dismissed
and expunged from Applicant’s record, he expressed embarrassment over this incident
in his answer. He stated that he was hanging out with the wrong people and committed
to staying away from marijuana. “I have not and will not make the bad decisions that put
me  in  that  situation  again.”  In  Applicant’s  March  2011  SCA  he  reiterated  the  same
concerning his marijuana use on the 2010 SCA.  (Items 4, 5)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  FORM  through  counsel,  he admitted  that  he felt  sick
and  disappointed  with  himself  for  using  marijuana  again  after  he  decide  to  stay  away
from  marijuana.  On  the  January  2010  SCA,  he  only  reported  the  2005  arrest  for
possession  of  marijuana  and  not  the  total  use.  (Item  6);  and  that  he  again  reported
inaccurately on his March 2011  SCA; and that he was granted a secret clearance and
stated that he did not use marijuana at that time. He also indicated that he did not use
marijuana for a period but then resumed use in mid-2014. He noted that his clearance
was  deactivated  from  February  2018  through  April  2020.  On  his  May  5,  2021,  SCA,
Applicant  characterized  all  of  his  marijuana  use  as  recreational  and  asserted  that  he
ceased use from 2010 through 2014. (Item 3 and Item 6)
Applicant  noted  that  he  is  the  primary  earner  in  his  family  and  is  engaged  with
the community. He coaches his son’s baseball team and volunteers. (Item 6)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on his
2010  and  2011  SCA by  deliberately failing  to  disclose  the  full use  of  his illegal  use  of
marijuana that he illegally used for 20 years. SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b. The SOR also cross
alleged  the  information  set  forth  in  SOR  1.b  and  1.d.  Applicant  admitted  the  E
allegations  and  that  he  was  intending  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  (Item  2)  He
believes it does not affect his judgment or reliability and that the Government should not
be concerned.
