Applicant  admitted  SOR ¶¶  1.a  to  1.r in his Answer, and  he  denied  SOR ¶¶  1.s  to
1.z   in  his  response   to   the   FORM.  He   is  66   years  old.  He  was  previously   married,  the
dates   of  which   are  not  in   the   record,  and   he   remarried   in   2018.  He   has   two   adult
children.  As of his  September 2021  background interview,  he worked  for his employer, a
DOD  contractor,  since   June   2018.   He  does  not  recall   if   he   was  granted   a   security
clearance  in  2010.  As of  his June  2021  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  and  since
December 2017, he  lived  in a  home owned  by  his spouse.  He previously  owned  a  home
from June 2006  to October 2016. (Items  1, 2, 3, 4; AE A)
The SOR and amended SOR alleged that Applicant had 18 delinquent consumer
debts, totaling $32,479  (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f, 1.n-1.v, 1.x-1.z). It also alleged that he had  8
delinquent  medical  debts,  totaling  $1,826  (SOR  ¶¶  1.g-1.m,  1.w).  In  addition  to  his
admissions  in  his  Answer,  Applicant  acknowledged  in  his  SCA  that  he  had  financial
issues.  He  also  discussed  his  delinquent  debts  during  his  background  interview.  SOR
¶¶ 1.a through 1.r, 1.w, and 1.z are reported on a June 2018 credit bureau report, and
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.e, 1.l, 1.n, 1.o, 1.p, and 1.s through 1.z are reported on a July 2021
credit bureau report. (Items 1-6)
Applicant attributed his delinquent debts to his separation and divorce; his period
of  unemployment  from September 2017  to May  2018;  and health issues.  As  indicated
above,  the  dates  of  Applicant’s  marriage,  separation,  and  divorce  were  not  in  the
record. He indicated during his background interview that he was required, through the
divorce, to pay the joint debts incurred during the marriage and provide $30,000 to his
former spouse so that he could keep the family home. He learned, after the divorce, that
his  former  spouse  had  obtained  a  $25,000  second  mortgage  on  the  home.  He  was
unable  to  pay  the  mortgages,  and  the  home  was  foreclosed.  During  his  period  of
unemployment,  he  supported  himself  with  personal  loans  and  withdrawals  from  his
401(k) retirement account. He stated in his SCA that he was working with his creditors
to  resolve  his  “credit  issues.”  In  his  Answer  and  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant
charted  the  status  of  his  efforts  to  resolve  his  delinquent  debts,  but  provided  minimal
documentation to corroborate his claims of payment. (Items 2, 3, 4; AE A)
Consumer debts
SOR ¶ 1.a is for a $618 personal loan in collection.  Applicant obtained this loan
after his divorce and during his period of unemployment to assist with living expenses.
He  was  unable  to  pay  the  loan  and  then  forgot  about  it.  He  indicated  during  his
background  interview  that  he  intended  to  contact  the  creditor  to  resolve  this  debt.  He
contacted the creditor in September 2021 in an attempt to resolve this debt. He did not
provide  documentation  to  show  that  he  reached  a  resolution  with  the  creditor  and
resolved, or was making efforts to resolve, this debt. (Items 4, 5, 6; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.b is for a $2,499 charged-off account. Applicant paid this debt in March
2022. (Item 5; AE A)
SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.t are for two charged-off loans, in the amounts of  $1,516 and
$1,759,  respectively.  Applicant  obtained  these  loans  after  his  divorce  and  during  his
period of unemployment to assist with living expenses. He was unable to pay the loans
and then forgot about them. He indicated during his background interview that a law firm
handling  both  debts  contacted  him,  and  he  entered  into  a  payment  arrangement  with
the law firm of $235 monthly to resolve these debts. He did not provide documentation
to corroborate his claim. He stated in his response to the FORM that he paid SOR ¶ 1.c.
Documentation  reflects  that  he  entered  into  a  payment  plan  of  $100  monthly  in  April
2022 to resolve SOR ¶ 1.c, and he made one payment of $100 in accordance with that
plan. He did not provide documentation to show that he had made any further payments
toward resolving SOR ¶ 1.c. (Items 4, 5, 6; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.d is for a $536 account in collection. Applicant stated in his response to
the FORM that he requested a settlement with the creditor, but he did not indicate when
he  did  so.  He  did  not  provide  documentation  to  show  that  he  settled  or  otherwise
resolved this debt. (Item 5; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.e  is  for  a  $1,483  retail  account  in  collection,  and  SOR  ¶  1.y  is  for
another  account  with  the  same  retailer,  in  collection  for  $1,483.  While  Applicant
indicated  during  his  background  interview  that  these  are  duplicate  accounts,  they  are
reported on the 2021 credit bureau report with different account numbers. He indicated
that  these  debts  belonged  to  his  former  spouse,  and  she  was  supposed  to  pay  them
after their divorce. He indicated that he contacted the collection agency for  SOR ¶ 1.e,
and  the  collection  agency  informed  him  that  it  did  not  have  a  record  of  any  open
accounts associated with him. As such, he did not intend to pay these debts. In March
2022, the creditor for SOR ¶ 1.e offered him a payment plan of $123 monthly to resolve
this  debt.  He  did  not  provide  documentation  to  show  that  he  made  any  payments  in
accordance with a payment plan for SOR  ¶ 1.e, or of his efforts to resolve  SOR ¶ 1.y.
(Items 4, 6; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.f is for a $1,283 account in collection. Applicant stated in his response
to  the  FORM  that  he  was  making  payments  of  $100  monthly  to  resolve  this  debt.  In
March  2022,  the  creditor  offered  him  a  payment  plan  of  $100  monthly  to  resolve  this
debt.  He  did  not  provide  documentation  to  show  that  he  made  any  payments  in
accordance with a payment plan for this debt. (Item 5; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.n  is  for  a  $7,993  charged-off  account.  Applicant  indicated  during  his
background  interview  that  his  former  spouse  obtained  this  personal  loan  for  her  use,
and  was  responsible  for  repaying  it  after  their  divorce.  He  indicated  during  his
background  interview  that  he  disputed  the  debt  with  the  creditor  when  the  creditor
contacted  him  about  it.  He  stated  in  his  response  to  the  FORM  that  he  repeatedly
contacted the creditor to discuss options to resolve this debt, but the creditor was non-
responsive. He intended to continue to try to reach the creditor to resolve this debt.  He
did not provide documentation to corroborate his claimed efforts of resolving this debt.
(Items 4, 5, 6; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.o  is  for  a  $1,427  retail  credit  card  in  collection.  Applicant  indicated
during  his  background  interview  that  his  former  spouse  obtained  this  card  for  her
personal use, and she was supposed  to pay it after their divorce. He indicated that he
initially disputed the debt with the creditor when the creditor contacted him about it, and
then he later contacted the creditor to try to resolve it if his former spouse had not yet
done  so. He  stated  in his response to  the  FORM that he paid this debt.  He contacted
the  creditor  in  September  2021  to  “bring  to  [the  creditor’s]  attention  the  issue  with
clearing  up  an  item  on  your  credit  report,”  and  the  creditor  requested  that  he  provide
additional information. He did not provide documentation to show that he responded to
the creditor’s request for additional information or that he resolved this debt. (Items 4, 5,
6; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.p  is for  a  $366  charged-off  department  store  card.  Applicant  obtained
this card for personal purchases. He indicated during his background interview that he
contacted the creditor and resolved this debt through a payment plan.  He stated in his
response to the FORM that he paid this debt.  In September 2021, the creditor offered
him a settlement of $113 to resolve this debt, and he paid $113 in October 2021. (Items
4, 5, 6; AE A)
SOR ¶¶ 1.q and 1.r are for two accounts in collection with the same creditor, for
$1,373 and $2,773, respectively. Applicant stated in his response to the FORM that he
was  awaiting a  response from the creditor.  He  did not provide  documentation to  show
that he was in the process of resolving, or that he resolved these debts. (Items 4, 5; AE
A)
SOR  ¶  1.s  is  for  a  $4,106  account  in  collection.  Applicant  indicated  during  his
background  interview  that  he  was  unaware  of  this  debt.  He  intended  to  contact  the
creditor  to  determine  whether  this  debt  belonged  to  him,  and  to  enter  into  a  payment
arrangement  to  resolve  it.  In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  he  provided  undated
documentation reflecting that the creditor was awaiting receipt of his bank information to
set up a payment arrangement for this debt. He did not provide documentation to show
that he  responded  to  the  creditor’s request for his bank information  or that he resolved
this debt. (Items 4, 6; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.u is for a $527 cable service account in collection. Applicant indicated
during  his  background  interview  that  he  paid  this  debt  when  he  closed  his  previous
home  in  2016.  He  was  unaware  of  this  debt,  as  he  had  not  received  any
correspondence  from  the  creditor  regarding  this  debt.  He  indicated  that  he  contacted
the creditor and disputed this debt. He did not provide documentation to corroborate his
claim that he disputed this debt. (Items 3, 4, 6)
SOR ¶ 1.v is for a $490  car insurance account in collection. Applicant indicated
during  his  background  interview  that  he  left  this  company  for  another  car  insurer.  He
was unaware of a delinquent balance as he had not received any correspondence from
the creditor regarding this debt. He intended to contact the creditor to resolve this debt.
He did not provide documentation to corroborate his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items
4, 6)
SOR ¶ 1.x is for a $1,757 charged-off personal loan. Applicant obtained this loan
after his divorce and during his period of unemployment  to assist with living expenses.
He  was  unable  to  pay  the  loan  and  then  forgot  about  it.  He  indicated  during  his
background interview that he intended to contact the creditor to resolve this debt. He did
not provide documentation to corroborate his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items 4, 6)
SOR  ¶  1.z  is  for  a  $479  charged-off  auto  account.  Applicant  obtained  an  auto
loan  to purchase  a  car in  2010.  His  car was  repossessed  in  2018, when  he  could not
afford  to  make  the  monthly  payments.  Applicant  indicated  during  his  background
interview that his outstanding balance was satisfied when the car was auctioned, and he
was unaware of a delinquent balance. As he had not received any correspondence from
the creditor regarding this debt, he did not intend to contact the creditor. (Items 4, 5, 6)
Medical debts
Applicant stated that he was unaware he had any outstanding medical debts, and
he was contacting the medical provider in an attempt to settle these debts. He stated in
his  response  to  the  FORM  that  SOR  ¶  1.l  had  a  zero  balance.  He  provided
documentation  reflecting  that  as  of  September  2021,  he  had  a  zero  balance  for  two
medical  accounts  that  he  indicated  were  for  SOR  ¶¶  1.l  and  1.m,  but  no  account
numbers  were  reflected  to  corroborate  his  claim.  He  also  indicated  during  his
background  interview  that  he  contacted  the  creditor  for  SOR  ¶  1.w,  a  $100  medical
account  in  collection,  and  he  settled  this  debt.  He  did  not  provide  documentation  to
corroborate to show that he resolved his medical debts. (Items 4, 5, 6; AE A)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  had  poor  credit  but  stated  that  his  financial
status  was  improving.  He  indicated  during  his  background  interview  that  although  he
relied on his spouse’s income to assist him with repaying his outstanding debts, he and
his spouse kept their finances separate, and they used a joint account for their monthly
household  expenses.  He  estimated  that  they  had  a  net  monthly  remainder  of
approximately $2,336 after expenses. He stated, in his response to the FORM, that he
intended to continue resolving his debts. He requested an appointment with a financial
counselor through his employee assistance program (EAP). (Item 4; AE A)
