Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. He married in 2006 and divorced in 2015. He has two
children with his ex-wife. He also has two children with a former girlfriend. He currently
cohabits with his new girlfriend. His children’s ages are 16, 10, 8, and 7. He pays $600 a
month for the two older children and $880 a month for the younger children. (Item 3)
Applicant served on active duty in the military from 2000 to 2014 and received an
honorable discharge. He chose to leave the service and accept a year of severance pay
when the military was reducing its ranks during a drawdown. After his discharge, he was
unemployed for about eight months. He decided to use his military educational benefits
and go back to school for a period. He then held several jobs for short periods of time. He
has worked for his current employer, a federal contractor, since October 2020. (Item 3)
The SOR alleges 11 delinquent debts totaling approximately $49,234, which are
charged-off or in collection status. They are corroborated by Applicant’s admissions in his
answer to the SOR,  disclosure in his security clearance application (SCA), statements
made to the government investigator, and credit reports from July 2021 and December
2020. Many of the debts became delinquent in 2018. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6,)
Applicant attributes his financial problems to being underemployed. He states that
because he changed careers, he has had to start at the bottom of the pay scale, and he
does not earn enough to pay his bills and his child support. He also stated that he moved
in  2015  to  an  area  with  a higher cost of  living.  He  is living paycheck  to  paycheck.  His
current annual salary is approximately $70,000, but he was previously earning only about
$49,000. He stated in his SCA that he got behind in paying some of his bills because of
his child support payments, but intended to get back on track. (Items 3, 4)
During  Applicant’s  January  2021  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator, he stated that he cannot pay all of his creditors at the same time. He said he
was working on paying some of his small debts. He did not provide evidence of payments
he  may  have  made  to  these  creditors.  He  said  that  although  he  would  like  to  pay  the
larger debts, he is unable to do so with the amount of his salary and his child support
obligations. He plans to settle his delinquent accounts eventually. He provided no other
evidence or documents to corroborate resolution of his delinquent debts. (Item 4)
