Under  Guideline  E  (personal  conduct),  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  May  2019,
Applicant was disciplined for violating the terms of agreement for the travel credit card
issued  to  him  by  his  former  employer  (SOR  1.a).  Under  Guideline  F  (financial
considerations),  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  owes  $23,774  for  14  past-due  or
delinquent debts (SOR 2.a – 2.n). In response to the SOR, he admitted with explanation
all of the allegations except for SOR 2.j. (FORM, Items 1 and 2) In addition to the facts
established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following relevant findings of fact.
Applicant is 51 years old and requires a security clearance in connection with his
employment  with  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  he  has  worked  since  June  2020.  He
served in the U.S. Navy on active duty and as a reservist between August 1993 and May
2001, when he received an honorable discharge. He was married from June 1996 until
divorcing in August 2019. With his ex-wife, he raised two children and one stepchild. In
March 1993, he earned an associate’s degree from a technical school, and he has worked
in  information  technology  (IT)  and  related  jobs  since  then.  He  first  received  a  security
clearance in 1994. (FORM, Item 2)
Between  1995  and  2017,  Applicant  worked  as  a  project  manager  for  a  federal
contractor. In February 2017, his company lost the contract to which he was assigned
and laid him off as part of a reduction in force. Thereafter, he worked a series of full and
part-time IT jobs until he started working for his current employer in 2020. One of those
jobs was a part-time, on-call position with a federal agency. In that position, he deployed
in 2018 and 2019 to areas of the United States in response to natural disasters. To pay
for  lodging,  meals,  and  other  costs  incurred  while  traveling  for  that  work,  the  agency
provided him with a government travel credit card (GTC). The card was in his name and
he was responsible for paying any balances using reimbursements from the sponsoring
agency.
When Applicant submitted his e-QIP in August 2020, he disclosed in Section 26
(Financial Record) that he had been disciplined for failing to pay about $6,000 that was
past due on his GTC. He explained that his failure to pay was due  to a combination of
excessive and disputed  charges on the card, financial problems related to his divorce,
and  his  inability  to  find  full-time  employment  that  would  pay  him  enough  to  meet  his
financial obligations. (Answer; GX 1)
SOR  2.e   alleged   the   GTC  debt  as  a   $2,599   charged-off   account.  Additionally,
available information  in  the  form  of  credit bureau  reports and  Applicant’s statements about
his finances he  made  in  a  personal subject  interview  on  September 30, 2020,  supports
all  of  the  SOR allegations. The  credit  reports p  roduced by  the  Government show  that he
accrued  delinquencies between  October 2015  and  October 2020. (Answer; FORM, Items
1 –  7)
In response to the SOR, Applicant provided copies of emails between him and a
financial management specialist at the federal agency for whom he worked regarding the
GTC debt. That person helped administer the agency’s travel card program. According to
those  emails,  the  agency  suspended  his  GTC  for  non-payment  in  May  2019  after  the
agency had warned him about his failure to pay off the card. It also advised him that the
card would remain suspended until he satisfied the debt and that he risked termination if
he did not do so. Applicant explained that he was having trouble finding work that paid a
sufficient salary for him to pay the card and the expenses of his divorce, which had been
going on for about a year at that point. He also wanted to have his pay garnished to satisfy
the debt, but was told he would have to arrange that directly with the credit card company.
During  his  PSI,  he  alluded  to  those  same  circumstances  as  the  cause  of  his  financial
problems.  He  also  stated  his  belief  that  his  ex-wife  was  spending  too  much  money
towards the end of their marriage. (Answer; FORM, Item 2)
With his Answer, Applicant also provided a copy of a repayment plan, dated April
14, 2022, with the SOR  2.d creditor. According to that agreement, he would pay $200
each  month  for  12  months  between  May  2022  and  April  2023  to  satisfy  that  debt.
Applicant  averred  he  has  started  making  those  payments  but  he  did  not  provide  any
corroborating information. (Answer)
Applicant did not provide any information showing he has acted to resolve any of
the other debts alleged in the SOR. He also did not provide any information  about his
current monthly finances, or about any efforts to dispute the debts alleged. Finally, he has
not sought or obtained any professional financial counseling or assistance to resolve his
debts or to improve the way he manages his personal finances.
