After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 41 years old, married (September 2007), with three daughters ages
19,  13,  and  7.  He  earned  an  Associate’s  degree  in  December  2010.  He  has  taken
additional college courses beyond that degree. Since April 2020, he has been employed
by a defense contractor. (Item 3.)
Applicant  reported  two  periods  of  unemployment.  The  latest  period  was  from
October  2019  to  December  2019.  The  reason  was:  “Job  offer  internally.”  The  longest
period  was  from  June  2017  to  May  2018.  His  stated  reason  was:  “Left  by  mutual
agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance.” (Item 3.)
The  SOR  alleged  three  delinquent  debts  totaling  $27,163.  (Item  1.)  Applicant
admitted those three allegations, without explanations or any documents. (Item 2.) More
specifically, the SOR debts and Applicant’s Answers are as follow:
SOR ¶ 1.a. is an account for delinquent federal taxes of $17,748 for tax year (TY)
2013. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted this allegation. (Item 2.) In his latest SCA, he stated:
“Job loss and trying to catch up on everything on one income  . . . Payment Plan.” (Item
3.)  In his Response to Interrogatories, he stated: “I wasn’t aware that my taxes were not
being paid. My wife does the taxes with HR Block. I have reached out to the IRS and the
state . . . to get tis [sic] resolved in a timely manner via payment plan.” (Item 5.) This debt
is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b. is an unpaid state tax lien for $7,466. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted this
allegation. (Item 2.) (See Items 3 and 5.) This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c. is a bank account in collection for $1,949. (Item 1.)  Applicant admitted
this allegation. (Item 2.)  This debt is not resolved.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
for  a   security   clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative   guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of  law  that apply  together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of  the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
