Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d, 2.a, 2.b, and 3.a. He
denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 2.c through 2.e. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old. He served on active duty in the Army from 2002 until he
was honorably discharged in 2009. He has served in the Army National Guard since 2010.
He married in 2016 and does not have children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2020.
Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) in April
2009. He pleaded guilty and was fined. He was ordered by his command to attend an
alcohol education class.
In  April  2014,  Applicant  was  charged  with  possession  of  alcohol  and  careless
driving. Apparently, he was arrested in a dry county and a bottle of whiskey was found
open  in  his  vehicle.  He  paid  a  fine  for  the  possession  charge,  pleaded  guilty  to  the
careless driving charge, and paid another fine. (Item 6)
In April 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving under the influence
of alcohol (DUI). He pleaded guilty and received a fine.
In  September 2019,  Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with  DUI.  He was given
a  breathalyzer and  recorded  a  .17% alcohol reading. He was represented  by  an  attorney
who   requested   a   continuance   for  his  trial  because   he   was  on   military   orders.  He  was
granted  the  continuance  until April 6, 2021. He failed  to  appear for  his trial on  that date.
He was found  guilty  in  absence, charged  with  contempt of  court for failing  to  appear for
trial, and  issued  a  bench  warrant.  As of  the  date  of  the  SOR, the  bench  warrant remained
active. In  his answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  the  facts,  stated  he  had  a  lawyer
and  offered  no  other information.  In  his response  to  the  FORM, he  provided  a  receipt  to
show  he paid  a  fine  associated  with  a  sentence  for  the  offense  of DUI 2nd  offense  on  the
alleged  dated,  and  he  was participating  in  an  alcohol substance  course for the  next four
weeks. (Item  1)
In November 2020, Applicant completed a security clearance application  (SCA).
Section 22-Police Record of the SCA, asked Applicant if in the past seven years he had
been  issued  a  summons,  citation,  or  ticket  to  appear  in  court  in  a  criminal proceeding
against him; if in the last seven years if he had been arrested by any police officer, sheriff,
marshal or any other type of law enforcement official; in the last seven years if he had
been charged, convicted, or sentenced to a crime in any court; and in the last seven years
if  he  had  been  or  was  currently  on  probation  or  parole.  Applicant  answered  no  to  the
above  questions  and  did  not  disclose  his  April  2014  charge  for  careless  driving  and
possession of alcohol; his April 2015 arrest, charge, and conviction of DUI, to which he
pleaded  guilty;  and  his  September  2019  arrest  and  charge  for  DUI,  contempt  of  court
charge for failing to appear, and his bench warrant, which were pending at the time. (SOR
¶ 1.c)
Applicant’s SCA also asked under Section 22-Police Record, if other than offenses
already listed, if he EVER had been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs.
He  answered  no and failed  to disclose  those offenses  listed  above  and his April 2009
DWI conviction. (SOR ¶ 1.d)
In December 2020, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He
was  asked  if  he  had  ever  been  arrested,  charged,  or  convicted  of  any  alcohol-related
offenses. He disclosed to the investigator that he had been arrested twice for DWI: 2009
and 2015. He disclosed to the investigator that he was arrested in April 2009 after drinking
at a pool hall. He was stopped by the police, failed a field sobriety test, and placed under
arrest for DWI. He was given a breathalyzer test and was over the legal limit. He plead
guilty to DWI in court and was ordered to pay a fine. (Item 3)
Applicant also disclosed to the investigator during his December 2020 interview
that  in  April  2015  he  was  driving  and  came  upon  a  DUI  checkpoint.  He  had  an  open
container of alcohol in his vehicle. Applicant said he passed both the field sobriety and
breathalyzer tests. He could not recall what he was initially charged with. He could not
recall going to court. He possibly recalled receiving a letter from the court ordering him to
pay a fine and attend an alcohol education class. Documents from the FBI database and
state court records reflect Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI in April 2015 and
was found guilty of DUI and fined. (Items 4-5)
Applicant’s  explanation  to  the  investigator  for  failing  to  disclose  the  required
information on his SCA that specifically asked about his past arrests and those for alcohol-
related incidents was that he misread the question regarding alcohol-related arrests and
thought the question was referring to felony offenses only. Applicant did not disclose to
the investigator during this interview that he had been arrested in April 2014 and charged
with  possession  of  alcohol and  careless  driving,  and  his most  recent  September 2019
arrest and charge for DUI. (Item 3)
In  February  2021,  Applicant  was  interviewed  a  second  time  by  a  government
investigator. He told the investigator that he failed to disclose his alcohol-related arrests
due  to  overlooking  the  alcohol-related  questions  on  his  SCA.  He  said  he  was  not
intentionally trying to conceal his alcohol-related arrests. No explanation was provided as
to  why  he  did  not  disclose  his  April  2014  and  September  2019  arrests  during  his  first
interview. He disclosed that he had obtained an attorney and pleaded not guilty to the
September 2019 charge and the case was pending. (Item 3)
In April 2019, Applicant was accused of shoplifting at a big box store. During the
February 2021 interview, he told the investigator that he was at a big box store and had
purchased  groceries  totaling  about  $200,  which  included  a  bag  of  shrimp  and  some
steaks. After paying for the groceries, he was stopped by the loss prevention employee
and asked to come to the office. Applicant said he was informed by the employee that he
had two steaks and a bag of shrimp that he did not register at the checkout. He questioned
the employee about why he would purchase $200 worth of groceries and not pay for the
steak and shrimp that cost about $20. He was released and informed his name would be
entered into the store’s database and if  a similar incident occurred again, he would be
arrested. (Item 3)
The SOR (¶ 2.c) alleged Applicant deliberately failed to disclose on his SCA his
April 2014, April 2015 and September 2019 arrests. In his answer to the SOR, he stated,
“I  deny.  I  did  not  fully  read  the  question,  upon  being  asked  I  answered  honestly  and
truthfully.”  (Item  1)  The  SOR  also  alleged  (¶  2.d)  that  in  his  SCA,  Applicant  was
specifically  asked  about  alcohol-related  offenses  and  he  denied  ever  having  been
arrested  or  charged  with  any.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation.  The  SOR  alleged  he
falsified  material  facts  when  he  was  questioned  by  the  government  investigator  in
December 2020 about alcohol-related offenses and failed to disclose his April 2014 and
September 2019 offenses (SOR ¶ 2.e). Applicant’s SOR answer stated: “I misunderstood
the question but when asked an answer was given.” (Item 2)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he provided a receipt from July 2022 to show
he completed a payment towards a fine associated with his September 2019 DUI offense.
The receipt reflects that the DUI is a second offense. No other information was provided
regarding this charge, the sentence, and whether he is on probation. He stated that he
was “doing an alcohol substance” that required him to attend weekly for four weeks. He
also stated, “I admitted to what I have done but I did misread the questions.” (AE A)
I find Applicant deliberately falsified material facts on his SCA when he failed to
disclose any of his arrests. The SCA asked if he had any arrests in the past seven years.
He answered no. It asked if he had EVER had any alcohol-related arrests, charges, or
convictions. He answered no. In December 2020, he was questioned by a government
investigator, and when asked if he had any alcohol-related arrests, he disclosed two and
did not disclose his most recent DUI arrest of September 2019, which was pending, and
his 2014 arrest. He did not disclose these previously because he thought he only had to
disclose  felonies.  I  do  not  believe  he  misread  the  SCA  or  overlooked  the  questions
because  when  he  had an  opportunity to  disclose  all of  his past  alcohol-related  arrests
during his first interview, he failed to do so. At that point, he was on notice to report all
criminal and alcohol-related offenses and he did not. It was only after the investigator did
a second interview that he disclosed his 2014 and 2019 arrests. His explanations are not
believable. (Item 3)
