Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.j  and  denied  the
allegation  in  1.k.  In  her  FORM  response,  she  amended  her  answer  and  admitted  the
allegation in SOR ¶ 1.k. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated into the findings of facts.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. She has cohabitated since 2010 and has a 10-year-old
child.  She  served  on  active  duty  in  the  military  from  2007  to  2011,  and  received  an
honorable discharge. She then served in the  Army National Guard from 2012 to 2016,
and was honorably discharged. Applicant attended technical school  from 2011 to 2012
and earned an associate’s degree. She attended community college  from 2013 to 2015
and  earned  two  additional associate’s degrees. She  was unemployed  while  she  was a
student. She has been employed by a federal contractor since February 2017. (Item 4)
The SOR alleges 11 delinquent debts. Nine of  the delinquent debts are student
loans  totaling  approximately  $40,851  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.j)  and  the  two  remaining
debts are for a repossessed vehicle (SOR  ¶ 1.a - $8,538) and a collection account for
unpaid rent and carpet cleaning services. (SOR ¶ 1.k - $1,436).
In November 2017, Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator. She
told the investigator that she owed about $12,000 for her student loans as of June 2013.
She had failed to defer the student loans in a timely manner so they went into collection.
She said she subsequently deferred them as of June 2013, and will keep them in that
status  until  she  can  manage  monthly  payments  with  a  stable  job.  She  was,  however,
considering an income-based repayment plan to start paying the loans soon. (Item 9)
Applicant discussed with the investigator the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a and explained the
debt was a car loan that she signed for her brother. At the time, she believed she was
cosigning for the loan, but later found out the loan is solely in her name. Her brother was
supposed  to  make  the  monthly  payments  and  failed  to  do  so.  She  said  the  car  was
repossessed in approximately 2015. At the time of her interview, she did not know the
current status of the account, but was going to contact the creditor.  She said this debt
was beyond her control. (Item 9)
Applicant told the investigator that she intended to pay all of her debts as soon as
possible and  would  contact the  creditors as soon as  possible  to  resolve  the  accounts.
She said she had learned her lesson. She was not financially stable before the beginning
of  the  year,  but  now  has  a  stable  job  and  better  income.  She  has  become  financially
responsible and capable of meeting her financial obligations. (Item 9)
In Applicant’s January 2020 SCA, she disclosed her student loans and said they
were deferred and she would address them when she had a sufficient salary. (Item 4)
In June 2020, Applicant was interviewed again by a Government investigator. She
confirmed during the interview that she had previously told the investigator that she had
planned to setup a payment plan and attempted to resolve the delinquent debts previously
discussed. She was asked if she had made payment arrangements and said she had not.
She  initially said  she did  not  have  an explanation  and  then  said  she  knew she  should
have made it a priority, but chose not to. She told the investigator that the interview has
opened her eyes as to the importance of resolving her debts and she now realizes she
should have followed through with the actions she previously told the investigator that she
said she would do. She believed she owed around $12,000 for her delinquent student
loans. She has never made a payment on her student loans. She received letters saying
the student loans were in default and would be sent to collection if payment was not made.
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  she  thought  she  had  ten  years  after  opening  the
accounts before she was required to make a payment. She believed that since the ten-
year period had not passed, she was not required to make a payment. She made no effort
to  contact  the  creditor  or  make  payment  arrangements.  She  said  she  had  no  other
explanation for why she did not pay her student loans.
Regarding  the  repossessed  vehicle,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  she
confronted her brother regarding the debt when she learned she was solely responsible
for it. She told her brother as long as he made the payments, he could keep the car. She
told  the  investigator  that  sometime  in  2015  or  2016,  she  was  notified  the  car  was
repossessed. From 2015 to 2019, she received calls and letters from the creditor about
the remaining balance owed on the car. She ignored them until 2019 when she decided
to address the delinquent debt. She setup a payment plan of $100 a month. (Item 9)
During  her June  2020  interview, Applicant was confronted  with  the debt in SOR ¶
1.k. She  explained she had a dispute with the creditor. The debt was for her last  month’s
rent on  a  residence  she  leased  and  an  additional $500  for carpet cleaning. She  had  the
carpets cleaned, but did  not retain  the  receipt  to  prove  it and  was charged  the  cleaning
fee. At the time, she was unwilling to make the  final payment on  the  amount she  felt was
wrongfully  charged. This debt was placed  for collection  in December  2015. She  did not
explain  why  she  failed  to  pay  her last  month’s rent.  She  told  the  investigator that she  now
agrees with  the  debt and  will contact the  creditor and  setup  a  payment plan  or settlement
agreement. (Items  8,  9; AE  E)
Applicant  disclosed  to  the  investigator  that  after  she  paid  her  bills  she  had
approximately $128 remaining each month. She had about $2,000 in saving. She said
she lives within her means. She did not have a budget. She advised the investigator that
she  would  make  changes  and  start  to  consider  what  she  needed  instead  of  what  she
wanted, and eliminate unnecessary expenses. (Item 9)
The debts alleged in the SOR are corroborated by Applicant’s admissions in her
SCA, SOR answer, response to the FORM, statements to the Government investigator,
and credit reports from May 2020, June 2021, and March 2022. (Items 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9)
In response to the FORM, Applicant stated she is a trustworthy and reliable person
and has been given responsibilities at work and assisted fellow employees. She said that
financial allegations have not had a negative impact on her work performance. (AE A)
Applicant provided a document to show that she began making $100 payments in
February 2019 on the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. It shows a current balance of $8,184 as of June
2022. This debt is being resolved. (AE A, B)
Applicant provided  a  receipt  from  June  2020  showing  she  paid the  debt  in  SOR  ¶
1.k in June 2020, and it is resolved. (AE  E)
Regarding Applicant’s delinquent student loans, she stated that she was under a
“Consolidation  of  Rehabilitation” program  and  the accounts were no  longer in a  default
status. She did not provide evidence of the terms of this program, a payment plan, or that
the  debts  are  no  longer  in  a  default  status.  She  provided  a  document  showing  recent
payments  she  has  made  towards  the  loans.  The  document  shows  she  made  her  first
payment on April 8, 2022 for $100, and three more payments in April of $50, $100, and
$155. She then made three payments in May 2022 of $200, $150 and $150. In June 2022
she  made  two  payments  of  $50  and  $100.  The  document  also  reflects  two  “treasury
offsets” from June 2019 for $886 and $111. These are presumably tax refunds that were
involuntarily captured and applied to the delinquent balances. (AE D)
