Applicant  is  48  years  old,  and  is  divorced  with  three  children.  He  has  an
Associate’s degree and  military training.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a
Marine  Painter.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR, as amended,  alleged that Applicant incurred eleven delinquent  debts
or  financial  concerns  owed  to  creditors  on  accounts  including  auto,  utility,  consumer
debt, and a mortgage that went into foreclosure, among other debts that were charged
off  or placed for collection, totaling approximately $40,000.  Applicant filed for Chapter
13  bankruptcy in  2016,  that  was  dismissed.  In his  answer,  Applicant admits  all of  the
allegations under this guideline  except 1.b. and 1.g.  Those two allegations he denies,
but  only to  provide  that  he  owes  an  amount  less  than  what  was  initially  alleged.  The
Government  does  not  dispute  the  reduced  balances  and  the  corrections  have  been
made.  Credit reports of  the Applicant dated  June 16, 2020; March 2, 2021; and June
16, 2022, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7 and 8.)
Applicant served in the United States Navy from 1993 to 2006.  After receiving an
honorable discharge, he was granted a security clearance in 2008.  He began working
for his current employer in 2013.  Since then, there have been no noted interruptions in
his  employment.  Applicant  has  known  about  his  delinquent  debt  since  at  least  2020
when he underwent his security clearance reinvestigation.  There is no evidence in the
record that Applicant has made any effort to pay or resolve the accounts alleged in the
SOR.  Most  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  continue  to  appear  on  Applicant’s  credit
reports.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $11,462.  Credit reports of Applicant indicate that the debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7, and  8.)  Accordingly, this  allegation  is found
against  Applicant.
b.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  the  Navy  Federal Credit Union  for an  account that was
charged   off   in  the   approximate   amount  of   $6,662.15.     Credit  reports  of   Applicant
indicate  that  the  debt remains owing.  (Government  Exhibits 6, 7, and  8.)   Accordingly,
this allegation in  found  against  Applicant.
c.  A  delinquent  debt  is owed  to  a  creditor  for an  account that was placed  for collection
in the  approximate  amount of  $1,160.  Credit  reports of  Applicant indicate  that the  debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7, and  8.)  Accordingly, this  allegation  is found
against  Applicant.
d.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for collection
in the  approximate  amount of  $1,011.  Credit  reports  of  Applicant indicate  that the  debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7, and  8.)  Accordingly, this  allegation  is found
against  Applicant.
e.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account  that was placed  for collection
in  the   approximate   amount  of   $555.    Credit  reports  of   Applicant  indicate   that  the   debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7,  and  8.)  Accordingly, this allegation  is found
against  the Applicant.
f.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account that was placed  for collection
in  the   approximate   amount   of   $488.    Credit  reports of   the   Applicant  indicate   that  the
debt  remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7  and  8.)  Accordingly, this allegation  is
found against the Applicant.
g.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account  that was placed  for collection
in  the   approximate   amount  of   $16,707,  for  the   balance   due   on   a   vehicle   that  was
repossessed.     Credit  reports  of  the   Applicant  indicate   that   the   debt   remains   owing.
(Government   Exhibits   6,  7   and   8.)     Accordingly,  this  allegation   is  found   against   the
Applicant.
h.  A delinquent mortgage account was foreclosed  upon in  2016.  (Government Exhibits
3 and 5.)
i.    A   delinquent  debt   is  owed   for  an   account  that  was  placed   for  collection   in  the
approximate   amount  of   $954.    Credit  reports  of   the   Applicant  indicate   that  the   debt
remains owing.   (Government Exhibits 6, 7  /and  8.)  Accordingly, this allegation  is found
against the Applicant.
j.  Applicant  filed  for Chapter 13  Bankruptcy  in about September 2016.  This Bankruptcy
was dismissed in  about June 2017.   (Government Exhibits 3 and 5.)
l.    A   delinquent  debt  is  owed   to   a   creditor  for  an   account  that  was  charged-off   in  the
approximate   amount   of   $1,185.    Credit  reports  of   the   Applicant  indicate   that  the   debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7, and  8.)  Accordingly, this  allegation  is found
against  Applicant.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant completed a security clearance application (e-QIP) dated May 5, 2020.
In response to Section 26, Financial, he was asked, “In the past seven years have you
had any possessions or property voluntarily or involuntarily repossessed or foreclosed?
.  .  .  In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  defaulted  on  any  type  of  loan?  .  .  .  In  the  past
seven years have  you had bills or debt turned over to a collection agency?  . . . In the
past seven years, have you had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or
cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed?  .  .  .  In  the  last  seven  years,  have  you  been
evicted  for  nonpayment?  .  .  .  or  were  your  wages,  benefits,  or  assets  garnished  or
In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  been  over  120  days
attached  for  any  reason?
delinquent  on  any  debt  not  previously  entered?  .  .  .  Are  you  currently  over  120  days
delinquent on any debt?”  Applicant answered, “NO,” and failed to list that he had been
delinquent on debts in the past seven years, as noted in Guideline F above.
On  the  same  application,  dated  May 5,  2020,  Applicant,  in  response  to  Section
26 concerning his financial record, was asked, “In the past seven years have you filed a
petition  under  any  chapter  of  the  bankruptcy  code.  Applicant  answered,  “NO,”  and
failed to disclose his Chapter 13 Bankruptcy filing in 2016.
Applicant  intentionally  omitted  information  about  certain  debts  on  his  security
clearance application.  He  states  that  he failed  to disclose his 2016  bankruptcy based
on  advice  he  received
in  his  company’s  security  department.
(Government Exhibit 5.)  This information is not controverted.
from  someone
