Applicant is a 33-year-old flight scheduler for a defense contractor, employed since
February 2020. She served as an aviation resource manager in the Air National Guard
from  2009  to  2021,  and  currently  serves  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Reserve  as  a  joint
operations center non-commissioned officer since 2021. Applicant earned an associate’s
degree in 2013 and completed some credits toward a bachelor’s degree. She married in
2013  and  has  two  children,  ages  eight  and  eleven.  She  has  held  a  secret  security
clearance since 2009.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  has  ten  delinquent  debts,
including  seven  delinquent  student  loans,  two  small  medical  debts  and  a  small  phone
utility  debt,  totaling  about  $31,000.  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  with
explanations, and submitted documentary evidence with her Answer to the SOR.
Applicant explained in testimony that she fell behind on debts when she left college
in 2015 with a toddler and a baby, and her husband was medically discharged from the
military. She was unable to finish her education, and instead began working to support
her family. Her husband was unable to maintain regular work and started an unsuccessful
business  in  2020.  He  secured  reliable,  full-time  work  in  July  2021,  and  consistently
contributes toward the family income.
Applicant did not pay on her student loans since 2015 because of a lack of income,
and  did  not  understand  the  availability  of  income-driven  payment  plans.  During  her
interview  with  a  Government  investigator  in  May  2020,  she  learned  how  to  set  up  a
student-loan repayment plan, but understood the COVID-19 related Federal student loan
repayment freeze provided her with more time to arrange a repayment plan. During that
time, she paid other debts and switched to a higher paying job, however; her husband
started  his  unsuccessful  business  that  did  not  assist  in  supplementing  the  household
income.
Applicant paid  the  two  small  medical  debts  (SOR ¶¶  1.h  and  1.i), and  the  phone
utility  interest  charge  for turning  in equipment late  four years ago  (SOR ¶  1.j). Applicant
contacted  the  Department of  Education  regarding  consolidating  her student loans.  All  of
the  loans were consolidated  into  one  direct student loan  in March  2022. Once  the  COVID-
19 loan repayment freeze is lifted, she  has budgeted to pay  $214.30 per month, and has
agreed   to   an   automatic  debit  from   her  account.   In   good   faith,  she   has  made   several
payments toward her loans to take  advantage of  the interest-free  period.
Applicant and her husband now earn nearly $140,000 per year, have about $7,400
in  savings,  and  a  retirement  account. They own  a  home  with  about  $87,000  in equity.
They  are  current  on  all  debts  and  comfortably  meet  monthly  expenses.  Applicant  has
excellent military evaluations and earned an Air Force Commendation Medal for her work
while on deployment. Her colleagues and friends describe her as trustworthy, loyal, and
a  team  player.  She  completed  formal  financial  counseling  in  November  2022,  and
prepared a monthly budget.
