Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 39 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2011 and is pursuing
another  degree.  He  works  part-time  for  a  company  and  has  worked  for  a  federal
contractor since May 2021. He has never married and has no children.
Applicant disclosed on his June 2021 security clearance application (SCA) that he
began using marijuana sporadically in high school in 1997, and used it more habitually in
his 20s, smoking it on a daily basis and several times a day. During his 30s his usage
declined and be took longer breaks from using marijuana. In the past four years, he has
stopped  seeking  it  out  to  purchase,  and  he  reduced  his  usage.  He  disclosed  that  his
current  usage  was  once  every  couple  of  weeks  while  golfing  with  friends  when  they
provide the marijuana. (Item 2)
Applicant further disclosed in his SCA that he uses marijuana as a way to relax
and enjoy time with his friends and while golfing when he has no responsibilities. He had
no  intention  of  using  marijuana  regularly  or  in  the  evenings.  If  it  were  legalized  at  the
federal level he may consider more regular use, but it was not worth seeking it out at that
point. (Item 2)
Applicant disclosed that he purchased marijuana from September 2000 to August
2017.  He  regularly  purchased  marijuana  from  2014  to  2017.  He  said  he  purchased  it
about every few weeks for a few months, and then there would  be times that he would
not purchase any for a few months. He stated that the reason he purchased marijuana
was  because:  “If  an  individual  wants  their  own  supply  of  marijuana  to  smoke  at  their
leisure,  for any  period  of  time,  they  must  seek  out  an  individual  [who]  sells  it  and  buy
some.” (Item 2) He did not intend to purchase marijuana in the future. (Item 2)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  July 2021.  Applicant
told  the  investigator that  he  did  not have  any intentions to stop  using  marijuana as  he
enjoyed how it makes him feel, and he planned to continue to socialize with his friends
who use marijuana. He further stated he has reduced his marijuana use, but did not plan
to  stop  using  marijuana.  He  said  that  he  purchased  marijuana  once  a  week  from
September 2000 to August 2017. He had no intention of purchasing it in the future. He
has never attended drug counseling, treatment, or drug education classes and has not
had his drug use assessed professionally. He has not been diagnosed as drug dependent
or with drug abuse. (Item 3)
In  Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR, he  admitted  that from  October 1997  to  May  2021
he   used   marijuana   with   varying   frequency;  from   September   2000   to   August  2017,   he
purchased  marijuana  on  various occasions; and  he  intended  to  continue  using  marijuana
in the  future. (Item 1)
In his SOR answer, Applicant stated:
My use during this time was done with no malice or desire to intentionally
disobey or not comply with any laws, rules, or regulations. I used it simply
from  the  standpoint  that  I  enjoyed  the  sensation  that  consumption  of
marijuana provided along with the social interaction of my friends who were
also experimenting at the time.
* * *
As  I’ve  gotten  older,  my  desire  for  the  sensation  alongside  all  the  other
mitigating factors of acquiring marijuana have waned and discouraged me
from using on any type of regular basis. Those mitigating factors would be
the  people  that  I  would  have  to  associate  with  to  acquire  marijuana,  any
possible  legal  ramifications  that  may  occur  if  I  would  get  caught  with  the
substance, and any negative circumstances that may affect my job or career
due to the previous two factors. (Item 1)
Applicant explained  in  his answer that his use  of  marijuana  did  not impact his ability
to  be  responsible  and  show  up  for  work and  perform  his assigned  tasks. He  further stated
that “I think it would be  ignorant to  deny  it didn’t have  any  effect, but it is reasonable to
say that effect has been  minimal.” (Item 1)  He stated that his use of marijuana  has never
had   any   negative   repercussions  with   law   enforcement  and   he   has never received   any
citations with regard to his use and possession of  marijuana. (Item 1)
Applicant  stated   in  his  SOR  answer  that  he   purchased   marijuana   because   he
“wanted  to  enjoy  that  sensation  on  my  own  terms with  a  frequency  that was determined
by me.” (Item  1) He  further explained:
When  a person  reaches a  point where they  decide  to  enjoy  a  substance at
their   own   leisure,  at  their   own   pace,  they   must  seek  out  a   source  to
purchase  it from. Because  these  substances are illegal, it creates a  black
market  where individuals can  acquire  their  desired  substance. If  a  person
desires  a   substance,  they   are  going   to   find  a   way  to   get  it  and   it doesn’t
matter what  the  substance  is  and  in many  cases it  doesn’t  matter what  the
consequences are.  I have  never sought  out any  other substances beyond
marijuana because  of the  mitigating factors I  mentioned [previously].
I have  not purchased  any  marijuana  in  several years and  the  primary  reason
for  that  is  because   everything   around   the   hassle  of  finding   and   buying   it
became  more than  I wanted  to  deal with, and  it didn’t  seem  worth  it to  me
anymore.   I   didn’t   like   the  people   I would   have  to  interact   with, and  it was
difficult to  find  a  good  reliable source that also  had  good  product.  It reached
a  point  that the  sensation  I felt from  marijuana  wasn’t worth  the  things I had
to go through to acquire it.  (Item  1)
Regarding Applicant’s intent to continue to use marijuana, he stated in his
answer to the SOR the following:
I  admit  to  expressing  at  least  a  desire  or  intention  to  continue  to  use
marijuana in the future. My intention to use marijuana in the future is not
meant to be done with any malice or with the intention to defy laws, rules,
or  regulations.  My  use  currently  is  sporadic.  I  play  golf  a  couple  times  a
month with friends and if one of them happens to offer some, I will partake.
I enjoy the feeling and being able to relax while I’m out having fun with my
friends. I only do it when I have no responsibilities to worry about during my
free  time.  I  have  no  intention  to  use  with  any  regularity  or  purchase  any
marijuana at any point in the future.
If I had a job that tested regularly or required me to not use, I would have
no  problem  adhering  to  that  policy. Which  is  an  example  of  my  ability  to
follow laws, rules, and regulations, if need be, as well as be responsible.
(Item 1)
Applicant also stated that he was told by his bosses and colleagues the importance
of being honest during the security clearance process and he has been honest and he is
trustworthy.  He  chose  to  be  forthcoming  about  his  illegal  drug  use  in  his  SCA  and
investigation.
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he stated that a lot of time had passed since
he  indicated  his  intent  to  continue  using  marijuana.  His  SOR  answer  was  in  February
2022  and  his  FORM  response  was  in  July  2022.  He  then  stated  that  he  was  not
completely sure of what his statement meant when he made it. He reiterated that he was
told to be honest and he was. He stated he had expressed a willingness to discontinue
his marijuana use in the future if it was worth it and his present job is worth it. He said his
job  is  too  important  to  him  to  jeopardize  it  by  continuing  to  use  marijuana.  Applicant’s
response continued with an analysis of the decriminalization of marijuana in many states
and  proposals  in  Congress  to  decriminalize  it  federally  and  a  bill  to  forbid  the  use  of
marijuana to be used to determine eligibility for a security clearance. (AE A)
Applicant further stated that because he disclosed his marijuana use it shows his
overall  trustworthiness  and  honesty.  He  reiterated  he  has  had  no  interaction  with  law
enforcement or history of arrests. He has no intention of disobeying any laws, rules, or
regulations he must adhere to in order to hold a security clearance. He further stated that
ld  not bring  his marijuana activity  to  court
a  high  percentage  of people  in  the  country wou
and   this  indicates  that   they   do   not  see   his  conduct  as  a   risk  to   national  security.  He
believes his willingness to  disclose  his  past and  be  honest  should  outweigh  his past drug
involvement. He  said he  does  his  job,  pays his bills and  taxes,  goes home and enjoys “a
few of  the liberties I still have.” (AE A)
