Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b and denied the cross-allegation SOR ¶ 2.a. His
admissions in his answer are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 39-year old senior systems administrator with a federal contractor.
He  currently  holds  a  top  secret  clearance  and  eligibility  for  access  to  sensitive
compartmented information, granted in 2014, and he has held various clearances dating
back to 2008. He received a bachelor's degree in 2008. He has been married for 15 years
and has three children from the marriage. (FORM Item 3.)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  Army  National  Guard  from  2004  through
2015.  He  deployed  overseas  in  the  late  summer  of  2010.  In  early  2011,  he  sustained
injuries while deployed in a combat zone and was medically evacuated to Europe. The
medical staffed determined he was unable to return to combat. He returned to the United
States to undergo surgery. He returned to duty, without a medical board in July 2012. In
September 2013, a medical board was held, and he was subsequently medically retired
in 2015. Since sustaining his injuries, he has undergone over 30 surgeries. (FORM Item
4 at 2.) The last surgery was in 2016. (FORM Item 2 at 4.)
Because  of  the  constant  pain  associated  with  his  injuries  and  the  numerous
surgeries, Applicant was entered as a patient in a pain management clinic in 2012. He
sought assistance from behavioral health at a military base in 2013. (FORM Item 6 at 3.)
In 2014, a psychologist diagnosed him with a number things. This diagnosis is alleged in
SOR  ¶  1.b:  Somatic  Symptom  Disorder  (complex  with  predominant  pain);  Major
depressive  disorder,  recurrent  (severe  without  psychotic  features);  Anxiety  (Not
Otherwise  Specified);  Opioid  Dependence;  ADHA  (primarily  inattentive  type);  and
Antisocial personality traits. (FORM Item 6 at 11.) The evaluating psychologist identified
a number of prognostic indicators, antisocial personality disorder (ASPD), multiple Axis 1
disorders,  chronic  pain,  medically  unexplained  symptoms,  poor  sleep,  and  possible
tendency towards somatization. (FORM Item 6 at 10.) The 2014 psychologist noted his
social support network and encouraged him to seek therapy. (FORM Item 6 at 10.)
In 2021, at the CAF’s request, a psychologist evaluated Applicant. This diagnosis
is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a: Features of Antisocial Personality Disorder (prominent lack of
empathy, history of aggression); Unspecified Trauma-Related Disorder (minimal intrusive
symptoms,  no  avoidance);  Depressive  Disorder  Due  to  Another  Medical  Condition
(chronic  pain);  and  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  mild  (binges).  (FORM  Item  4  at  7.)  The
psychologist speculated  that the positive prognostic indicators  she found,  stable family
life and quarterly visits with a psychiatrist, may be outweighed by his opioid dependence,
episodic alcohol abuse, and indications of an unscrupulous attitude toward truthfulness.
(FORM Item 4 at 7.) She noted he responded to her emails politely and promptly and took
the first available appointment. She identified no signs of anxiety and  he responded to
questions in a relaxed manner with a clear and logical thought process, often providing
more detail than necessary to answer a particular question. (FORM Item 4 at 3.)
Applicant has been under the care of his current psychiatrist, Doctor T, since 2018.
He notes she is treating him for “ASPD, PTSD, ADHD, and Chronic Pain Syndrome with
associated  wave  of  depression.”  (FORM  Item  2  at  5.)  Doctor  T  states  she  has  been
treating  him  for  persistent  issues  of  anxiety,  insomnia,  and  inattention.  She  states  his
diagnosis  is  Attention  Deficit  Hyperactivity  Disorder,  Inattentive  type  (F90.0),  and
Unspecified  Anxiety  Disorder  (F41.9).  She  concludes  she  does  not  believe  he  has  a
personality disorder or an alcohol use disorder. (AE2 at 1.)
Doctor  T  addresses  each  diagnosis  from  the  2021  evaluation.  (AE2  at  1.)  She
states  Applicant  lacks  all  the  criteria  for  an  antisocial  personality  disorder.  She  notes,
while  he  does  have  a  sense  of  detachment  from  others,  these  are  skills  necessary  to
carry out military orders and to keep himself and others safe. Doctor T cites his support
network of family and the feelings of warmth towards his wife and children, as well as the
value  he  places  on  his  professionalism  and  being  part  of  a  team.  She  identifies  as  a
strength, his ability to detach from his own life and focus on his work and cites favorably
the absence of evidence that this trait has ever been brought up as a professional liability.
Doctor T noted based on her professional experience people working in technical fields,
such  as  engineering  or  other  professions  involving  computer  programing  or  job
descriptions  that  require  an  analytic  over  an  emotional  skill  set,  may  demonstrate  as
“lower in warmth than others.” (AE 2 at 1.)
Doctor T addressed the alcohol abuse diagnosis. She cited his medical record and
her  four  years  of  treatment  observation.  She  highlighted  the  fact  that  any  excessive
alcohol use was several years ago, when he was experiencing severe insomnia and used
excessive  alcohol  in  order  to  sleep.  She  found  no  pattern  of  problematic  alcohol  use,
other than this specific time period. (AE2 at 1.) She explained he has been on a stable
combination of prescription medication, which allows him to sleep well and consistently
function. She concludes his statements about limited use of alcohol are accurate because
he  has  no  alcohol-related  arrests  or  medical  issues  that  would  cause  alcohol  to  be
diagnosed as a clinical concern. Additionally, she notes he has never failed a drug screen
and has been taking controlled medications as part of his regimen for many years. (AE2
at 1.)
Doctor T concluded Applicant's “presenting complaints have been worked out with
a  combination  of  appropriate  pharmacotherapy  and  supportive  psychotherapy.”  She
notes he has been fully compliant with his treatment plan, including taking his medications
as prescribed, passing urine drug screens, and allowing her to share his medical records
and to communicate with all of his other providers. (AE 2 at 2.)
Applicant denied the alcohol allegation, SOR ¶ 2.a. He acknowledged during the
2012-2014  time-period  he  had  “used  alcohol  as  a  crutch  to  numb  the  effects  of  [his]
chronic pain, but never while on duty and in the confinements of [his] home.” (FORM Item
2 at 5.) Given his injuries, he has been treated by an advanced pain therapy clinic and
required  to  enter  into  an  opioid  contract.  His  pain  management  doctor,  Doctor  S,  has
treated him for 10 years. Doctor S noted he had been compliant with the clinic’s opioid
therapy policies and had not demonstrated aberrant behaviors. His urine drug screens
have been normal, as have his prescription monitoring reports. (AE3.)
Applicant emphasizes the fact that the record reflects he has never been accused
or charged with any violent crimes or any crimes at all. (AE1.) He states the main reason
he sought therapy was to make his family happy and safe. (FORM Item 2 at 5 and FORM
Item 6 at 10.)
