The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  approximately  December
2020  to  about  February  2021,  while  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  in  a  sensitive
position (SOR ¶ 1.a), and that he intends to use marijuana in the future (SOR ¶ 1.b). In
Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a and responded
to SOR ¶ 1.b by saying, “Possibly, I admit.” His admissions are incorporated in my findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  machinist  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since
March  2015.  He  was  employed  in  the  civilian  sector  before  being  hired  by  his  current
employer. He has held a security clearance since about 2017. (Tr. 16.)
Applicant  married  in  May  2003  and  has  three  children,  ages  12,  8,  and  5.  He
attended  a  community college from  August 1999  to  May 2013 and  received  a  general
studies  degree  in  May  2014.  He  attended  a  technical  school from  June  to  September
2014 and received a certificate in September 2014.
When Applicant submitted his SCA, he disclosed that he used marijuana twice, in
January  and  February  2021.  (GX  1  at  30-31.)  During  an  interview  with  a  security
investigator in July 2021, he told the investigator that he obtained marijuana from a friend
and used it on one occasion with his wife and a second occasion with  his brother and
sister-in-law. When asked about his motivation for using it, he explained that he knew that
marijuana use was about to be decriminalized in July 2021 in the state where he resides,
and he “just wanted to try it out.” He told the investigator that future use of marijuana was
“probable,” but that he felt no need to use it. He told the investigator that he wanted to
keep his options open because marijuana was legal in the state where he resides. (GX 2
at  5.)  In  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories  about  his  intention  to use  marijuana  in  the
future, he responded, “Maybe, no real plans to.” (GX 2 at 11.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that when he used marijuana on two occasions,
he  was  not  aware  that  it  might  affect  his  security  clearance.  His  employer’s  policy
regarding marijuana use is to send an employee to rehabilitation classes for the first use,
and any subsequent use is grounds for termination. He believed that his employer’s policy
was a “gray area,” similar to alcohol abuse. (Tr. 17-19.)
Applicant testified that he obtained the marijuana from a friend, that he had used
all of it, and that he is “too cheap” to buy any more. (Tr. 21.) He unequivocally stated that
he would not use illegal drugs again, because “it just wasn’t worth it.” He explained that
he likes his job, is not addicted to marijuana, and does not wish to risk losing his job by
smoking  it.  (Tr.  21-22.)  He  was  asked,  “If  you  have  a  choice  between  your  job  and
marijuana, which one are you going to take?” He responded, “Absolutely my job.” (Tr. 26.)
After the hearing, he submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from all illegal drug
use, acknowledging that any future involvement would result in revocation of his security
clearance. His statement was admitted without objection as Applicant’s Exhibit A.
