Applicant  is  37  years  old.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  some  college
courses.  He  currently  holds  the  position  of  Systems  Administrator.  He  is  seeking  to
obtain a security clearance for a NATO Direct Hire position with the NCIA, in connection
with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the  Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
The SOR alleged that Applicant has used and purchased marijuana with varying
frequency from about July 2006 to at least February 2022; that he has been arrested in
May  2018  for  Possession  of  Marijuana,  among  other  things;  and  that  he  intends  to
continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  with
explanations.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant explained that he has used marijuana over the years to treat symptoms
of back pain and depression.  This use has occurred on a weekly basis over the years.
He  also  stated  that  he  plans  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  (Government
Exhibit 6.)  He stated that he would be willing to discontinue his marijuana use if that is
a  requirement  of  his  security  clearance  process.  He  does  not  believe  that  his  use  of
marijuana constitutes “drug abuse,” and notes that marijuana is legal in the state where
he resides.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
In  May  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Hashish-Possession
(felony), Possession of Controlled Substance (felony), Marijuana Possession with Intent
(felony),  Marijuana  Possession  - More  than  1  oz,  less  than  1  lb,  Narcotic  Equipment-
Possession.  Applicant admits the allegation.  On this occasion, Applicant believes that
the  search  of  his  vehicle  was  illegal  under  the  4th  amendment.  He  contends  that  his
purchase  of  the  substance  was  legal,  and  his use  of  the  substance  was  personal and
medicinal.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
Applicant further notes that his purchases of marijuana have all been legal.  He
stated  that  he  has  always  paid  taxes  on  the  marijuana  he  purchased.  He  has  never
been involved in any criminal distribution networks.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
