In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b,
and SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.c, but denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3..a, regarding falsification of
his October 2017 and February 2, 2021 SCAs in response to Section 23 –Illegal Use of
Drugs or Drug Activity and Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances in the last seven
years,  and  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  have  you  ever  illegally  used  or
otherwise been involved with a drug or controlled substance by answering “No”; and SOR
¶ 3.b. as cross-alleged under SOR ¶ 2.a through 2.c. His admissions are incorporated in
my findings of fact (Item 1)
Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  systems  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since  November  2015.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  obtained  an
undergraduate degree in 2014. He reported no military service.  Applicant has worked for
defense  contractors  since  2014,  with  short  periods  of  unemployment  when  he  was
working  on  personal  projects  from  November  2014  until  June  2015.  He  obtained  a
security clearance in 2017. (Item 2)
Guideline J: Criminal Conduct
The allegation in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b involved an arrest in November 2014, with a
charge of possession of marijuana, and the alleged arrest in May 2019, with a charge of
possession  of  marijuana.  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations,  but  noted  that  the
marijuana  was  obtained  through  dispensaries  and  used  for  sleep  assistance  and  to
increase his appetite. For his 2014 marijuana possession offense, he was charged with
a misdemeanor, first offense, received a ticket, probation, and a fine. (Items 1, 4)
In  Applicant’s  2021,  personal  subject  interview  (PSI),  he  volunteered  to  the
investigator that he was offered marijuana by his cousin, and purchased some marijuana
from him in 2014. (Item 4) He put some marijuana in his vehicle trunk on the way home,
and was stopped for speeding by a police officer. Applicant was  taken to jail, and was
able to bail himself out. The PSI report states that he went to court at some point and he
“was told to submit dismissal paperwork.” (Item 4) Applicant told the investigator that later
he found out the case was dismissed.
Guideline H: Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
In  his  answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  three  SOR  allegations  that  he  used
marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  2012  to  about  July  2021  (2.a);  that  he
purchased  and  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  2012  to  about  July
2021 2.b; and 2.c, that he purchased and used marijuana with varying frequency from
about July 2018 to about July 2021, while granted access to classified information. (Item
1)
However, in that same answer, he  stated that the  “time  span was persuaded by
the investigator during the interview as a general from and to date.”  During his 2018 PSI,
he stated that “estimated months and dates noted are fairly accurate.”
Applicant volunteered information about the May 2019 arrest for purchase and use
of marijuana from his cousin. He told the investigator that it was an open case because
he  did  not  know  that  his  case  had  been  fully  dismissed.  (Item  4)  It  is  not  clear  what
Applicant meant by that statement.
Applicant used marijuana in college from 2012 to 2014. He also used marijuana
perhaps once a year over the next couple of years for recreational use. He stated that he
purchased from vendors in states where marijuana was legal from 2019 to the present
when he was on vacation.  Applicant was drug tested when he was hired and stated that
he understood the employer  policy on illegal drug use, and that it is against policy to use
marijuana while in federal employment. He believes that the legalization of marijuana is
coming  and that it should not be an issue. (Item 4)
Applicant stated that he used the marijuana also to assist with his anxiety and to
make  him  feel  relaxed  and  creative.  He  emphasized  that  he  has  not  developed  any
dependency  on  marijuana  and  has  had  no  counseling  or  treatment.  He  compares  his
marijuana use to alcohol. His future intent does not include the use of marijuana, so that
he  can  keep  his  job  and  security  clearance.  Applicant  would  use  it  if  marijuana  was
legalized. However, currently he will refrain from marijuana use, although he could not
rule out using marijuana in the future if it is legalized. He stressed that his use of marijuana
has “no criminal intent.” (Item 4)
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct
The SOR alleged in SOR 3.a and 3.b that Applicant falsified material facts on his
October  17,  2017  and  February  2,  2021  SCAs  by  answering  “NO”  to  the  questions  in
Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs of Drug Activity as set forth in subparagraph 1.a and
1.b, and 2.a through 2.c above. It further alleged that had he denied ever using drugs or
otherwise being involved with a drug substance while possessing a security clearance
and he answered “NO.”
Applicant  denied  the  falsification  allegations  because  he  believes  he  made  a
mistake in assuming the other sections correlated. He claimed he answered the question
incorrectly by an honest mistake. He believes the process to be very difficult. He added
that due to having previously submitted SCAs and having pre-populated information the
resubmission had an error in it. He added that he would be willing to discuss any items
with the investigator if needed. He stated that he did not report the use because he did
not believe it was serious. (Item 4) He has held a security clearance since 2017. On both
SCAs,  he  answered  “NO.”  to  have  you  ever  illegally  used  or  otherwise  been  illegally
involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security clearance other
than previously listed? He did not add any information concerning this issue in his 2022
DOHA interrogatories. He insisted in his subject interview that he was never going to list
the information concerning use of marijuana on his SCA because he wanted to tell an
investigator whenever he was interviewed. He admitted that he was properly trained on
reporting of  such issues, but just did not think about it when he recertified his security
clearance  application.  (Item  4)  Applicant  made  no  clarifications  to  his  reasons  for
omission except that he would disclose to the investigator.
`
