Applicant,  32,  has  worked for a federal contractor  as  an  information  technology
professional  since  March  2012.  He  was  promoted  to  a  management  position  in
February 2022. He previously applied for and was granted public trust eligibility in 2018
to support a specific federal contract. He completed a security clearance application in
January 2020, seeking access to classified information. He does not require a security
clearance  for  his  current  position,  but  obtaining  eligibility  allows  his  employer  more
flexibility  in  staffing  him  on  other  contracts.  On  his  security  clearance  application,
Applicant  disclosed  marijuana  use  between  October  2007  and  January  2020  several
times a week to help with his anxiety and depression. He also indicated that he intended
to continue using the drug in the future. (GE 1-2, Tr. 12-15, 18)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  recreationally  in  college.  He  continued  to  use
marijuana  after  he  graduated  from  college  in  February  2011.  His  frequency  of  use
varied based on the availability of the drug in social settings. He explained that he also
engaged  in  periods  of  abstinence  from  marijuana,  but  would  resume  use.  When  he
applied  for  public  trust  eligibility  in  2018,  he  had  not  used  marijuana  in  the  preceding
year.  However,  he  resumed  use  after  the  contract  he  was  supporting  ended  and  he
believed he no longer maintained public trust eligibility.  (Tr. 16, 18-9, 25-26, 31)
At  the  time  he  completed  his  security  clearance  application  in  January  2020,
Applicant disclosed that he continued to use marijuana on a regular basis. In a February
2020  subject  interview  with  a  background  investigator,  Applicant  stated  that  he
continued  to  use  marijuana  on  a  daily  basis  with  friends  and  to  self-medicate  anxiety
and depressed moods. He denied seeking help for the underlying mental-health issues,
and reiterated his intent to use marijuana in the future. Over a year later, in April 2021,
Applicant  answered  a  set  of  interrogatories  from  DOD  regarding  his  drug  use.  He
reported  that  he  continued  to  use  marijuana  several  times  each  week  with  intent  to
continue use the future. Applicant admitted that he purchased the drug on occasion, but
had not done so  since at least 2018 or 2019. He reported using the drug  when it  was
provided by friends. He disclosed that he still associated with friends who used the drug
on  a  regular  basis.  He  also  admitted  that  he  had  not  made  any  changes  to  his  life  to
support abstinence to include substance abuse counseling or seeking treatment for his
anxiety and depression.  (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 20, 26)
Applicant used marijuana daily until he received the SOR in April 2021, when he
stopped.  In  his response  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  would  not use  the  drug in  the
future. One witness, a close friend, testified that he was aware of Applicant’s marijuana
use,  but  had  not  seen  him  use  the  drug  in  social  settings  over  the  past  year.  He  also
stated that Applicant expressed his desire to stop smoking marijuana. Applicant testified
that marijuana use is no longer compatible with his lifestyle and that the demands of his
career are paramount. He reinforced his intention to abstain from drug use in the future.
However,  Applicant’s  two  roommates,  one  of  whom  is  his  girlfriend,  continue  to  use
marijuana. His girlfriend, who has a medicinal marijuana card, uses the drug regularly.
Applicant testified that he has asked her not to use the drug  in the same room as him.
His social circle still consists of regular marijuana users. He stated that he does not use
the drug when his friends use it in his presence. (Answer; Tr. 29. 37-43, 47-52)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted that he had not made any specific changes to
his lifestyle to support abstinence. He testified that at an unspecified time before 2019,
he attended therapy to work through some personal issues. Although he touched on his
anxiety and depression issues, they were not the focus of the sessions. He continued to
use marijuana while he was in therapy. He did not make any connections between his
history of marijuana use and his feelings. He concluded that he was not using the drug
to self-medicate but because he enjoyed the effects of it. (Tr. 31-37)
Applicant explained that he understood  that even though  recreational marijuana
use has been decriminalized in his state of residence, that marijuana use remains illegal
there and that it is illegal under federal law. (GE 3, 21)
