Applicant,  33,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contracting
company,  since  February  2016.  He  completed  his  first  application  for  access  to
classified  information  in  March  2021.  He  disclosed  a  history  of  marijuana  use  and
purchase  between  May  2007  and  March  2021,  a  history  of  cocaine  use  between
January 2008 and February 2021, and counseling for marijuana use between July and
August 2009. Applicant confirmed the details of his past illegal drug use and history in a
March 2021 background interview with an OPM agent and in August 2021 responses to
DOHA  interrogatories.  These  admissions  serve  as  the  basis  for  the  SOR  allegations.
(GE 4-5)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  and  cocaine  recreationally  while  in  college
between  2007  and  2011.  He  reports  using  cocaine  recreationally  no  more  than  five
times. He denied ever purchasing the drug, but only used it as was provided by friends
in social settings. Applicant does not foresee using cocaine in the future because he is
prescribed  a  stimulant  medication  for  another  medical  condition  and  does  not  want  to
mix the two drugs. He reported his last use as being in February 2021. (GE 4-5)
In 2009, Applicant’s parents took him to see a substance abuse counselor about
his marijuana use. Through those sessions, which took place between July and August
2009,  Applicant  was  not  diagnosed with  a  substance abuse  disorder, but  realized  that
he  used  the drug to  address  anxiety and  pain.  Since  then,  Applicant  has continued  to
use marijuana to self-medicate. (GE 4-5)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  background  investigator  in  March  2021.  In  his
response to DOHA interrogatories in August 2021, Applicant reviewed and made minor
changes  to  the  report  of  investigation  prepared  by  the  background  investigator.  The
changes included corrections to misspelled names of family members and a correction
to  information  about  his  employment  history.  He  did  not  make  any  corrections  to  the
disclosures  he  made  about  his  history  of  illegal  drug  use  or  his  statements  of  intent
regarding his future use of marijuana. Applicant reported to the background investigator
that  he  used  marijuana  eight  to  twelve  times  a  week  and  that  he  purchased  the  drug
monthly at a local dispensary. He conveyed his intent to use marijuana in the future to
alleviate  his ongoing issues  with  pain and anxiety. While he  stated  that he would  stop
using the drug if it were necessary to obtain a security clearance, he  admitted that he
would resume use if federal policy on the issue changed. Applicant told the investigator
that  he  continued  to  associate  with  friends  who  used  marijuana  and  admitted  that  he
had not made any changes to his lifestyle to encourage abstinence. (GE 5)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant reported his last use of marijuana as being in
March  2021,  the  month  he  completed  his  security  clearance  application.  He  also
provided a drug screen report dated January 2022, showing that he tested negative for
both  cocaine  and  marijuana.  Applicant  did  not  offer  any  current  information  either  in
response to the SOR or the FORM about an alternate treatment for his pain and anxiety
issues  or  changes  in  his  life  to  support  abstinence  from  illegal  drug  use.  He  did  not
provide  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  illegal  drug  use  in  the  future.
However, he volunteered to submit to random drug testing. (GE 3)
