In Applicant’s Answer, he denied all the SOR allegations, with explanations. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  60  years  old.  He  is  married  for  the  second  time.  His  first  marriage
was  from 1984 until 2011  when he  divorced.  He married the second  time in  2015.  He
has  two  adult  children  from  his  first  marriage  and  two  adult  stepchildren  from  his
second.  He  currently  works  for  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has  worked  since
2006.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  engineering.  He  was  first  granted  a  security
clearance  2012.  In  2019,  he  was  denied  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI)
access  by  an  other  government  agency  (OGA)  after  two  days  of  polygraph  interviews
and tests in April 2017. The information from the OGA led to the issuance of the SOR
here. (Tr. 26-27; GE 3-5)
Under Guideline D, the SOR alleged that Applicant, from 1985 to February 2017,
on at least nine occasions, paid women for sexual acts, including after being granted a
security  clearance  in  2012.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  This  allegation  was  also  cross-alleged  under
Guideline E. (SOR ¶ 2.a) It was also alleged under Guideline E that Applicant provided
material  false  information  during  an  interview  with  the  OGA  on  April  25,  2017,  by
denying he paid for sexual acts during a recent trip to another state. (SOR ¶ 2.b)
In approximately 2017, Applicant was being considered by the OGA for access to
SCI  information.  As  a  requirement  for  that  access,  Applicant  was  required  to  undergo
interviews  and  polygraph  examinations.  These  interviews  and  polygraph  examinations
with agents from the OGA took place on April 25-26, 2017. As a result of the information
compiled by the OGA from the interviews, Applicant was initially denied access to SCI in
March  2018,  and  that  decision  was  finalized  in  March  2019.  The  OGA’s  investigative
report  and  the  SCI  denial  decisions  are  contained  in  GE  5.  Applicant  participated  in
interviews  with  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  agents  in  August  2019  and
April  2020,  as  part  of  his  background  investigation  for  this  clearance  action.
Summarized reports were prepared of those interviews. In January 2021, Applicant was
given  the  opportunity  to  review  the  summarized  statements  and  make  corrections
and/or  additions  to  them,  which  he  did.  Those  summarized  OPM  statements  and
Applicant’s responses are contained in GE 4. (Tr. 35-36; GE 4-5)
I  have   examined   all   the   evidence   needed   for  resolution   of  this   case.   Several
pieces of evidence require examination in detail and are set forth below.
Applicant’s Hearing Testimony
Applicant  admitted  that  when  he  was  in  his  20s  (mid-1980s)  he  went  to  two
modeling studios in the state where he was living and received manual stimulation from
females on both occasions. He admitted these acts during his April 25, 2017 polygraph
interview.  He  also  admitted  that  a  third  similar  incident  happened  in  another  state.  He
was not arrested for these acts and he did not hold a security clearance at the time. He
stated that when he disclosed this information to the OGA agents in April 2017, they told
him he was failing the polygraph because of his breathing. (Tr. 24-26)
Applicant’s  divorce  from  his first  wife  was  finalized  in  November 2011.  In  2012,
he  went  to  Germany  on  a  work  trip.  He  had  relatives  there  so  he  also  incorporated
some personal time during that trip. He was feeling lonely because of his recent divorce
so he visited a brothel on four occasions while in Germany. He believed prostitution was
legal in Germany at that time. He had never been to a brothel before then and has not
been back to one. He held a security clearance at the time. He stated that he was not
briefed or instructed on disclosing this information to a security officer since he believed
his  actions  were  legal.  He  disclosed  this foreign  travel  on  his  2013  security  clearance
application (SCA). (Tr. 26-29; GE 2, p. 64)
Applicant  regularly  exercised  and  to  relieve  muscle  pain  from  his  workouts  he
has  also  regularly  got  massages  afterwards.  He  has  probably  had  approximately  60
massages  over  the  years.  At  one  time  he  had  a  membership  to  a  national  massage
chain.  Sometime  after  2013,  he  sought  a  massage  after  a  workout  and  went  to  a
massage parlor. While being massaged, the masseuse began manually stimulating his
genitals. Applicant did not seek out this treatment. He did not say yes to this stimulation,
but he also did not fight her off. No pay was offered or solicited for this “service.” He did
pay  the  massage  fee  and  provided  a  tip,  which  is  customary  in  this  service  business.
Applicant never returned to this massage parlor. (Tr. 29-31; SOR Answer)
The  second  occasion  where  Applicant  experienced  an  unsolicited  sexual
advance  by  a  masseuse  occurred  in  late  2016  or  early  2017.  Applicant  was  in  a
different state and was waiting to pick up his wife at the airport. He had several hours
before  she  arrived  and  decided  to  get  a  massage.  He  randomly  selected  a  massage
parlor  and  went  there  for  a  massage.  While  getting  the  massage,  the  masseuse
grabbed his genitals and asked him if he liked it, to which he responded “no.” She then
exposed her breasts to him, which caused him to ejaculate. He did not solicit this action
by the masseuse. He paid for the massage and left a customary tip. He later picked up
his wife at the airport and told her what happened at the massage parlor. Since this last
incident,  he  has  never  been  back  to  a  massage  parlor.  He  now  treats  his  workout
muscle fatigue with regular trips to a chiropractor. (Tr. 31-34, 43-44)
Applicant testified that he did not have to volunteer to take the polygraph in 2017.
He  held  a  top  secret  clearance  before  the  polygraph  and  his  job  at  that  time  did  not
require that he take one. He took the polygraph because passing it would allow him to
be  involved  in  new  roles  for  the  company.  He  fully  cooperated  with  the  polygraphers
and  when  they  questioned  his  truthfulness,  he  told  them  about  every  embarrassing
incident  in  his  past.  This  was  the  first  time  he  took  a  polygraph.  Ironically,  after  the
polygraph  and  the  denial  of  his  SCI  access  by  the  OGA,  he  continued  to  support that
agency on other projects as recently as a week before this hearing. (Tr. 35-36, 40; SOR
Answer)
Applicant has continued to do classified work for his company in the intervening
five years since the polygraph test. He continues to have access to top secret material.
He has been his company’s facility security officer (FSO) for the past five years and was
most  recently  appointed  by  his  CEO  in  2020.  He  is  also  a  member  of  the  company’s
insider threat team. (Tr. 40-41; AE A-C)
2017 Report of Polygraph Interviews of Applicant on April 25-26, 2017  (GE5)
It  is unclear if  the  report that is reflected  in GE  5  (pp.1-24) is the  complete  report
of  Applicant’s investigation  by  the  OGA. The  handwritten  page  numbers appear to  have
been made  by  Department Counsel and  not by  the  author(s) of the report.  The  author(s)
of  the  report  are  not  identified. No  person  identified  with  creating  the  report was called
as a witness by the Government at hearing.
The report described an interview with Applicant on April 25, 2017. Under a topic
heading  of  “Crime,”  the  report  indicated  that  in  1985  to  1990,  Applicant  stated  that  he
was with two females on two different occasions at two different massage parlors where
he  paid  $50 for manual  stimulation.  The  report  does  not  describe or  cite  to  what  laws
were violated on these occasions. In his response to the OGA’s SCI denial action, and
while admitting to the conduct, Applicant disputed that these acts occurred at massage
parlors,  but  rather  at  nude  modeling  establishments,  otherwise  known  as  strip-clubs.
The report also described a 1990 trip to a nude modeling place where Applicant paid for
and received manual stimulation. He admitted this conduct in his response to the denial
action. (GE 5, pp. 20, (Applicant’s April 2018, response  to  the  OGA’s clearance  action
comprises pp.29-42 of GE 5))
The  report  further  described  the  following  incidents  purportedly  disclosed  by
Applicant during his post-polygraph interview on April 25, 2017:
From  2011  to  2015,  on  four  different  occasions at  four different  brothels, S
(subject) paid 50  Euros for vaginal  and  oral intercourse  with  nude  females
appearing in their 20s to 40s.  (Incident 1)
In  2015, S  was in [State] and  went to  a  massage  parlor. S  paid $60  for a
massage   and   received   manual  stimulation   of   his  penis  to   the   point   of
ejaculation.   S   reported   the   female   appeared   to   be   in   her  30s   and   was
topless.  (Incident 2)
In  2016, S  was in [another state]  and  went with  his  wife  to  get a  massage.
During   the   massage   S   became   aroused   and   the   masseuse   grabbed   S’s
penis and lifted her shirt. S reported that he  felt  uncomfortable and told her
to stop. S paid $60  for the  massage. (Incident 3)(GE 5, p. 20)
Regarding  Incident  1  above,  Applicant’s  April  2018  clearance  denial  response
admitted  that  he  visited  the  same  German  brothel  four  times  in  2012.  He  did  not  visit
multiple  brothels  over  multiple  years  as  described  in  the  report.  He  described  why  he
visited  the  brothel  (recent  divorce),  that  he  believed  his  actions  were  lawful  because
brothels are legal in Germany, and that he has never been back to a brothel since those
actions in 2012. He also was unaware of any security reporting requirement because of
his actions. (GE 5, pp. 29-30)
Regarding   Incidents   2   and   3   above,  Applicant’s  April  2018   clearance   denial
response   admitted   that  he   visited   massage   parlors  in   2013,  not   2015,   as   described   in
the  report and  in 2016. He stated  that he  has visited  massage  parlors 50-60  times over
the  years to  help him  with  severe leg  and  back pain. He did not frequent these  places
for the purpose  of receiving  “paid or  unpaid  sexual favors.”  He always paid the  massage
fee  and the customary tip.  (GE 5, p. 30)
The  report  described  the  follow-up  questioning  purportedly  disclosed  by
Applicant during his pre-polygraph interview on April 26, 2017:
During   the   pre-test   interview,  S   advised   that   the   information   that  he
provided   during   the   previous  polygraph   interview   on   25   April  2017
regarding   going   to   a   massage   parlor  was  not  correct.   S   clarified   that  he
traveled   to   [an   out   of  state   city]  for  work  related   purposes  in   February
2017  and  he  went to  a  local massage  parlor for a  massage  in his free  time
knowing  that the  massage  could  end  in  some  form  of sexual gratification.
Towards the  end  of the  massage,  the  masseuse, who  was a  30  to  40  year
old female  of  Asian  decent  [sic], started  to  brush  his  penis with  her hand
and   arm.  She   asked   S   if   he   liked   it  and   he   responded   “yes.”  The
masseuse  then  started  “flashing” or showing  her chest to  him  which made
S  become  sexually  aroused. She  then  “grabbed” S’s penis  with  her hand
and  he  received  manual stimulation  to  the  point  of  ejaculation.  At  no  time
did S  resist this touching. S  paid  approximately  $60  for the  massage  and
gave the masseuse a  $30  to  $40 “tip” for her service.
S  previously  reported  that  he  went with  his wife  to  get  a  massage  during
this  incident,   however,   he   stated   during   this  interview   that  he   did  not  go
with  his wife. He did, however, tell  his wife  that the  masseuse  touched  his
penis,  but that  nothing  else happened  because  he  did  not want to  hurt her
in anyway….
During Applicant’s hearing  cross examination by Department Counsel, Applicant
denied  that  he  told  the  polygraphers  that  he  went  to  the  massage  parlors  for  sexual
gratification  during  his  April  26,  2017  interview.  Applicant  believes  the  polygrapher
skewed his answer when Applicant responded to the repeated question of  whether he
was  thinking  about  being  sexually  gratified  when  he  went  to  the  massage  parlor  by
maybe  subconsciously  wanting  it  to  happen.  Applicant  also  denied  that  he  told  the
polygrapher that he  liked  what was  happening  when  asked by the masseuse. He also
denied his purported statement that he did not resist the touching. (Tr. 50-53)
Applicant’s   Background  Investigation  Interview   Conducted  in  April   2020   and
Applicant’s   Correction,  Additions,   and  Deletions  to   that  Interview   submitted  in
January 2021 (GE 4)
During  his  April  2020  background  interview,  Applicant  was  asked  about  the
incidents  that  led  to  his  SCI  access  denial  by  the  OGA.  The  interviewer  summarized
that information as follows:
In   2017,   Subject   was  in  [another  city   and   state]  and   went  to   a   local
[massage  chain]  in  order to  get  a  massage  for pain related  to  working  out.
During   the   massage,  Subject   became   aroused   and   the   masseuse   [sic]
while   he   was  falling   asleep.   The   masseuse   grabbed   his  genitals  and
began   to   lift  her  shirt.   Subject  told  her  to   stop.  Subject  admitted   that  he
subconsciously   might  have   wanted   her  to   continue   but  he   felt  very
uncomfortable.   Subject  paid   for  the   massage   and   left  immediately.  He
never returned  to  that massage  parlor. Immediately  following, Subject  told
his wife  about this incident because  she  was the  one  who  recommended
that  he   go   to   [massage   chain].  However,   she   was  not  present  as
previously  indicated   in   past  interviews.  When   asked   about  this  incident-
during
that
subconsciously   [sic]  might  have   wanted   manual  stimulation   to   be
performed,  but  consciously   he   did  not  and   to   him   the   question   did  not
make  sense.  He was asked  by  the  polygrapher if he  had  noticed  a  sign  on
the   wall   that  said   it  was  illegal  and/or  did  he   report   it  to   anyone   in  the
establishment or to  the  police, to  which he  did  not.  (GE 4, p. 9  (pagination
at bottom right of each  page))
the   polygraph,   he   admitted   during
the   polygraph
Applicant  made  several  additions  and  corrections  to  the  above  summarized
information  when  he was  first  allowed  to  review it  in  January 2021.  Those  corrections
are stated verbatim below:
I did  not  state  “[name  of  massage  chain]” but rather had  told them  at one
time  I had  maintained  a  membership  at  [massage  chain]  over the  years. I
volunteered  that information to show that I had gotten countless massages
over the  years  that did  not involve  an  incident.  I was on  travel and  do  not
remember the name of the  massage parlor I visited in  2017.
I  never  stated   that   my   wife   was  present   at   any   time   during   any   of  the
events listed  in  the  interviews. My  wife  was flying  into  [the  state] that  day
and  I  was on  my  way  to  pick  her up  at  the  airport.  In  my  interview, I stated
that  I  told  my  wife  what happened  at  the  massage  parlor  (and  not  that she
was  present  at   the   parlor).  I  have   reiterated   this  fact  several  times  and   I
am  not sure why  the  topic keeps  coming  up  as I  have  provided  the  same
correction every time.
After I told the  polygrapher that I did not go  to  the  parlor with  the  intent of
receiving   manual   stimulation,  and   that  I   told   her  no   and   to   stop.  [sic]  He
then   repeatedly   asked   me   if  I  was  thinking   it.  I  then   said,  “maybe
subconsciously?” He smiled  at me  and  said yes. I then  mentioned  the  fact
that  I  saw   the   sign   at  the   entrance   when   I  came   into   the   facility   so
obviously  thinking  it subconsciously  seemed  out of  place.  This is when  the
polygrapher became visibly and verbally angry  with me.  (GE 4, p. 12)
Applicant  explained  his  answers  to  the  polygraphers  by  pointing  out  that  the
polygraphers  repeatedly  insinuated  that  he  had  committed  serious  crimes  such  as
murder and rape when they told him after his day one polygraph that his breathing was
not  right  and  he  was  failing  the  test.  In  an  effort  to  cooperate,  Applicant  revealed  this
personal information that was quite embarrassing. (GE 4, P. 14)
Character Evidence
During  his  clearance  review  with  the  OGA,  Applicant  provided  a  number  of
character statements from work colleagues and personal friends. Included among those
statements  were  two  from  his  current  CEO.  He  stated  that  Applicant  is  honest,
trustworthy,  forthright,  and  that  his  character  is  beyond  reproach.  He  strongly
recommends  that  he  retain  his  clearance.  Two  other  coworkers  attest  to  Applicant’s
loyalty, reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. A retired Navy captain who has
known  Applicant  for  over  40  years  also  noted  his  traits  for  reliability,  honesty,  and
trustworthiness. Two neighbors, who have known Applicant for over 20 years described
his honesty, trustworthiness, and reliability. (GE 5, pp. 34-42)
