After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleges that Applicant was arrested in February 2017
for theft of mail, found guilty of that offense, and that his sentence included restitution and
five years’ probation (SOR ¶ 1.a). Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges that he resigned
in lieu of being fired as a mail carrier after it was discovered that he opened U.S. mail and
stole gift cards (SOR ¶  2.a), that he received a written warning from a federal contractor
for  using  a  company  prepaid  mailing  label  to  mail  personal  mail  (SOR  ¶  2.b),  that  his
employment with that federal contractor was terminated for not being forthcoming about
his criminal history (SOR ¶ 2.d), and that he falsified material facts regarding his criminal
history on his March 2017 e-QIP (SOR ¶ 2.c). He admitted the allegations at SOR ¶¶ 1.a.,
2.a., 2.b., and 2.d, without explanation. He denied the allegation at SOR ¶ 2.c, stating that
his  failure  to  disclose  that  he  had  been  arrested  and  was  pending  trial  was  due  to  an
unintentional oversight. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant is 42 years old. He graduated from high school in 1999 and earned an
associate’s degree in 2000. He served on active duty in the Army from 1999 to 2014 and
was  honorably  discharged.  He  has  been  married  since  2005  and  has  one  child.  He
worked for a federal contractor from October 2016 to May 2018. (Items 2, 3)
From September 2014 to September 2016  Applicant was employed by the U.S.
Postal Service  (USPS)  as  a  mail  carrier.  From  about  April  2016  to  August  9,  2016  he
opened  mail  entrusted  to  him  for  delivery  and  stole  items  he  found  inside.  On  about
August 9, 2016, USPS agents approached his mail carrier vehicle, observed that he had
opened an envelope containing cash, and informed him that they had surveillance video
of  him  opening  mail  and  removing  items.  He  then  admitted  that  he  had  been  stealing
pieces of mail from his assigned carrier routes since about April 2016. He estimated that
he had opened approximately 100 pieces of mail per week  and removed gift cards  he
found therein. He said that he had no reason for taking the gift cards other than he had
made poor decisions and exercised bad judgement. He resigned from the USPS in lieu
of being fired in September 2016. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5).
In   October  2016,  Applicant  was  hired   by   a   federal  contractor.  In   approximately
January   2017,  he  received   a   written   warning   for   improperly   using   a   mailing   label
purchased   by   his  employer  for  personal  mail.  He  said   that  he   intended   to   pay   for  the
personal mail, and  thought he  had  erased  the  company  account number from  the  pre-
paid USPS  label before  he  printed  it out so  that the  company  would not be  charged  for
shipping. He said that he was unaware the company had been charged for the shipment
until his supervisor showed him the receipt because his spouse had mailed the package.
He told his supervisor that he would pay, and the $53 shipping cost was deducted from
his pay. He also said that he had no other employment difficulties with that employer, and
that there was no likelihood of recurrence. (Items 3, 4)
On February 3, 2017, Applicant voluntarily surrendered to federal authorities and
was  arrested.  He was  arraigned by a  Magistrate  Judge  on one count of  “Theft of  Mail
Matter by [USPS] Officer or Employee,” a felony under 18 U.S.C. §1709. The Magistrate
Judge also scheduled trial on the Theft of Mail charge for April 3, 2017. (Items 4, 5)
On March 2, 2017, Applicant completed an e-QIP. In Section 22 of the e-QIP titled
“Police  Record,” he denied that he had been charged with any crime in the past seven
years,  and  denied  that  he  was  then  awaiting  trial  on  criminal  charges.  In  response  to
questions about “Employment Activities,” he disclosed that he resigned from the USPS in
September 2016, but denied that he quit after being told he would be fired and denied
that he left by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct. He also
denied that he had received a written warning from his then federal contractor employer.
(Item 3)
On April 17, 2017, Applicant pled guilty to Theft of Mail by a USPS employee. On
August 14, 2017, he was sentenced to five years’  probation, ordered to pay restitution
totaling $75, and fined $2,000. (Items 4, 5)
During  an  August  21,  2017  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant
discussed his March 2017 e-QIP. He said that his failure to disclose  that he had been
charged with a crime was due to an oversight. He also attributed his failure to disclose
that  he  had  resigned  from  the  USPS  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or
allegations  of  misconduct  to  an  oversight.  He  noted  that  he  had  no  other  employment
difficulties with the USPS, that there was no likelihood of recurrence, and that his federal
contractor employer was aware of the USPS incident. He reported that the only difficulty
he  had  experienced  with  his  federal  contractor  employer  was  the  written  warning  for
improperly  using  a  company  purchased  mailing  label  for  personal mail,  and  that  there
was no likelihood of recurrence of that behavior. (Item 4)
An incident report dated February 13, 2018 and prepared by security personnel for
his federal contractor employer notes that  Applicant: “was found  guilty  of two  separate
charges  in  two  separate  incidents  .  .  .  is  not  forthcoming  regarding  his  convictions  for
criminal activity [and] has not reported any of  this data.” The incident report  references
two  criminal convictions  and  sentences.  First,  the  conviction and  sentence for Theft of
Mail Matter by a USPS employee (SOR ¶ 1.a). Second, “Charge – Make Utter Issue 150
[Dollars] or over Plea Agreement Filed. Sentence imposed – [February 13, 2018] 2 years’
probation.” He subsequently admitted that in May 2018, his federal contractor employer
terminated  his  employment  because  he  “was  not  .  .  .  forthcoming  regarding  [his]
convictions for criminal activity” (SOR ¶ 2.a). (Items 2, 6)
On  February  12,  2020  a  federal  Judge  granted  Applicant’s  Motion  for  Early
Termination  of  Probation,  and  discharged  him  from  supervised  release  for  the  federal
Theft of Mail offense. (Item 5)
Applicant’s response to the SOR included a brief explanation regarding his failure
to  disclose  any  criminal  history  in  his  March  2017  e-QIP.  He  acknowledged  that  his
responses were inaccurate and noted that if he had gone back and reviewed his answers,
he would have corrected his responses. Applicant did not submit any other documents or
evidence with his answer, and did not submit a response to the FORM. (Item 2)
