Applicant is 29 years old. He graduated from high school in 2010. He enlisted in
the Army in 2012, and served on active duty four years. He was a sergeant (E-5) at the
time of his honorable discharge in February 2016. He married in 2015, and he has two
children ages seven and four. He attended college, on and off, between 2016 and August
2020, but he has not earned a degree.
Following his discharge, Applicant was unemployed for about two weeks. He then
worked for two different employers for short periods. His current employer and security
clearance  sponsor  hired  him  in  November  2016.  He  has  not  had  any  periods  of
unemployment or underemployment since. The Department of Defense (DOD) granted
him eligibility for a clearance in 2012. He stated that he never had any security issues or
concerns, except for those in the SOR.
When he started working with his current employer in 2016, Applicant was making
about $50,000 a year. Shortly thereafter, he was promoted and his earnings increased to
$75,000, and then to $100,000. He and his wife each have been making $100,000 a year
since at least 2019. Their combined income is $200,000 annually. (Tr. 41-42) He has a
monthly net remainder of over $1,700. (Tr.45)
Applicant  submitted  his  most  recent  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  on
August 3, 2020, seeking the continuation of his clearance eligibility required for his job. In
Section 26 (Financial Record) of his 2020 SCA, he disclosed he “had issues after he took
out  a  loan”  in  2017,  and  defaulted  on  it.  He  claimed  he  was  working  to  resolve  his
delinquent debt.
The  subsequent  background  investigation  revealed  the  12  delinquent  accounts
alleged in the SOR (four charged-off and eight in collection), totaling about $43,000. In
his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.d,  1.e,  1.h,  1.j,  and  1.k.  He
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.f, 1.g, 1.i, and 1.i. He stated that he had been resolving his
delinquent debts and promised that if he had not resolved some of them, he was willing
to  do  so.  All of  the SOR  allegations  are  established by his admissions  and  the  record
evidence.
At his hearing, Applicant testified that he started to contact his creditors and sought
to settle or pay his delinquent debts, after he received the SOR. He claimed he paid SOR
¶¶ 1.g, 1.k, and 1.l, and disputed 1.h. Applicant presented no documentary evidence of
any  disputes  filed,  contacts  with  his  creditors,  any  settlements  made,  payment
agreements established, or of any payments made after he acquired the obligations. He
took no action to resolve his debts after he  submitted his 2020 SCA, received the July
2021  SOR,  or  after  his  hearing.  He  presented  no  evidence  to  establish  that  he  has
participated in any recent financial counseling.
Applicant explained that his financial problems were the result of him being young
and immature. He accrued most of the SOR debts when he was in the service. It was his
first time away from home, and he did not know how to handle his finances. He did not
take his financial responsibilities seriously, did not pay his debts, and he let the accounts
become  delinquent.  He  stated  he  was  careless  and  irresponsible  because  he  did  not
address his delinquent debts. (Tr. 48) He claimed that he now understands the severity
of  the  consequences  caused  by  his  financial  irresponsibility,  and  how  his  financial
irresponsibility could be a concern to the Government.
Applicant described his current financial situation as good. He and his wife were
considering  buying  a  home.  He  believes  that  he  should  be  able  to  pay  his  delinquent
accounts in the near future by using the services of a debt consolidation company. He
stated he has never been the type to shy away from hard work or to make excuses. He
takes responsibility for his financial problems, promised to fix them and not to allow it to
happen again in the future.
In July 2021, Applicant contacted a debt relief company and requested information
about  the  process  to  retain  their  services.  (AE  1)  His  documentary evidence  does  not
show that he retained the services of the debt relief company. There is no documentary
evidence that he signed a contract, or of any payments made to the debt relief company
from July 2021 to present. He averred he and his wife are in the process of establishing
a new budget including his delinquent accounts.
Applicant testified that he takes his responsibilities as a security clearance holder
very seriously. He noted that he has had a clearance since  2012, when he was  in the
service.  He  considers  himself  to  be  trustworthy,  reliable,  and  honest.  His  references
speak highly about him. They consider him to be efficient, detail-oriented, competent, and
possessing  a  strong  drive  to  succeed.  He  is  among  the  top  five  employees  within  his
company and has received numerous performance awards. His references endorsed his
eligibility for a clearance without reservations.
