Applicant is a 29-year-old engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  (Items  3-4)  He  currently
cohabitates  with  his  girlfriend.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May  2011  and
bachelor’s degrees in aerospace and electrical engineering in December 2017. (Item 4)
He reported no military service and has never held a security clearance.
Since  March  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  employer.  (Item  4)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other  employers  in  various
research positions. He reported intermittent periods of  unemployment between  August
2011 and March 2018. (Item 4)
Applicant’s drug history
Throughout his college years (2014-2017), Applicant used and purchased illegal
drugs  for his personal use.  Records document  that he purchased and used marijuana
with varying frequency, from about May 2011 to at least July 2017; purchased and used
LSD with  varying  frequency from  2015  to  about  2016;  purchased and  used  Psilocybin
Mushrooms  and  other  hallucinogens  (inclusive  of  LSD)  with  varying  frequency,  from
about  August  2014  to  about  2017;  purchased  and  used  cocaine  on  at  least  one
occasion in July 2014, and purchased and used MDA on at least one occasion in July
2014. (Items 2-4)
In  a  personal subject  interview  (PSI) conducted  by  an  investigator from  the  Office
of   Personnel  Management  (OPM)   in  October  2018,  Applicant  acknowledged   frequent
smoking  of  marijuana  in college  between  2014  and  2017.  (Item  3) Explaining  in further
detail  the  frequency  of his marijuana  use  and  experimenting  with  other illegal drugs,  he
told  the   OPM   investigator  he   smoked   marijuana   daily   (sometimes   with   friends   but
mostly   alone)  to   calm   himself  from   being   depressed   and   avert  his  relying   on   anti-
depressant   medications.  (Item   3)   When   asked   by   the   investigator  about  his  future
intentions for marijuana use, he expressed uncertainty about  any recurrent use  he  might
consider   in  the   future.     (Item   3)   Based   on   his  OPM   interview   responses,   no   clear and
reliable  inferences   can   be   drawn   about   Applicant’s  risks  of  recurrent  involvement   with
illegal drugs.
Applicant’s psychological assessments
Applicant presents with a history of  recurrent depression that is traceable to his
years  in  high  school.  (Items  3-5)  While  in  high  school,  he  met  with  a  therapist  and
psychiatrist for experienced depression symptoms. (Items 3 and 5) Based on the advice
of  his therapist, he voluntarily admitted himself to an inpatient mental health center for
treatment to address his recurrent suicidal ideation and increased depression. (Items 3
and  5)  Following  his  six-day  inpatient  hospitalization,  he  received  outpatient  treatment
for  an  additional  30  days  and  was  thereafter  referred  to  psychiatrists  for  follow-up
treatment. (Items 3 and 5)
In  college  (2014-2017),  Applicant  continued  with  his  mental  health  treatments.
(Items  3  and  5)  Records  document  that  Applicant  engaged  in  recurrent  self-harm
behaviors  between  2011  and  2015.  (Items  3  and  5)  In  October  2020,  Applicant  was
referred  by  DOHA  to  a  psychological  evaluator.  (Item  5)  After  meeting  with  Applicant
and reviewing his investigative results and medical records from his 2015 mental health
treatment,  the  retained  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant  met  the  criteria  for  the
following  disorders:  major  depressive  disorder  (moderate,  recurrent);  alcohol  use
disorder  (moderate),  cannabis  use  disorder  (moderate,  in  sustained  remission);  and
other hallucinogen use disorder (moderate, in sustained remission). (Item 5)
intervention
In  her  conclusions,  the  retained  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant’s  diagnosed
major mental depressive disorder tends to be a chronic and highly recurrent condition.
(Item 5) In her professional opinion, Applicant’s cited tendency to self-medicate, coupled
with  his  ambivalence  regarding  future  use  of  illegal  drugs,  pointed  to  a  guarded
prognosis.  In  turn,  she  recommended  individual  substance  abuse  treatment  and
psychiatric
for  Applicant.  (Item  5)  Additionally,  she  recommended
that Applicant begin individual therapy with a licensed mental health provider to address
“the  cognitive  and  behavioral  aspects  of  his  conditions  (citing  insight,  impulse  control,
coping skills, and negative self-talk.).” (Item 5) Wrapping up her evaluation of Applicant,
the  evaluating  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant’s  diagnoses  posed  a  risk  to  his
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness concerning his access to classified information.
(Item  5)  Whether  Applicant  ever  followed  up  with  individual  therapy  with  a  licensed
mental health provider is unknown from the developed record.
