Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  single.  He  has  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  and
master’s degree from American universities. Applicant has been employed by a defense
contractor  since  February  2018.  He  seeks  to  retain  national  security  eligibility  and  a
security clearance in connection with his employment. He has also been a member of the
Navy Reserve since 2016, with the rank of petty officer second class (E-5). (Government
Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, and 15; Tr. 6-7, 23-24.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct)
The  Government alleges in this paragraph  that Applicant is ineligible  for  clearance
because   he   has  engaged   in  criminal  conduct  that  creates  doubt  about   a   person’s
this  allegation   with
judgment,   reliability,  and
explanations.
trustworthiness.  Applicant  denied
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  activities  that  show  questionable  judgment,  which  raises
questions about his reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified or sensitive
information. Applicant denied this allegation with explanations.
The Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 2 allegations concern the same event:
On August 20, 2019, Applicant was involved in a road-rage incident with another
driver. Applicant and the other driver acted in provocative ways towards each other on
the highway. When they got off the highway, Applicant stopped at a stop light with the
other driver behind him. At this point, the other driver got out of his car and approached
Applicant. Applicant became concerned that the other driver would attack him or his car.
He then got out of his car holding a clasp knife for protection. He also stated that his intent
was to scare the other driver off. The other driver charged Applicant and they got into a
mutual fight during which Applicant was hit in the head at least once. During this fight, the
other  driver  was  cut  on  his  leg  by  Applicant’s  knife.  Applicant  stated  that  this  was  an
accident, and there is no evidence that it was intentional. After the other driver was cut, a
third  party  separated  them  until  police  arrived  and  took  statements  from  everyone
concerned. Applicant was fully cooperative with the police. He was arrested on a charge
of Assault with a Deadly Weapon. The district attorney elected not to move forward with
any charges against Applicant. (Government Exhibit 2 at pages 5-6; Government Exhibit
3; Tr. 13-15, 24-36, 39-41.)
Applicant  received  a head  injury during the fight  with  the  other driver. Applicant
Exhibit A is the medical report from his provider concerning this injury. (Tr. 38-39.)
Applicant informed his employer of the arrest as soon as possible after the arrest,
and of the disposition. He also informed his military supervisor of the incident the evening
it happened, which her testimony confirmed. (Government Exhibits 4 and 5; Tr. 45.)
Applicant stated he had never been involved in any other incident like this one. He
further stated his intention was not to hurt anyone but to protect himself and his car. He
regrets the incident, (Tr. 39-42.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline B,  Foreign Influence)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has foreign connections that may create a security concern. Applicant denied
this allegation with explanations.
Applicant is a native-born American citizen. From  1992 through 2011, Applicant
lived with his parents in Taiwan. He returned to the United States in 2011 to attend school
and has lived in the United States continually since then. Applicant’s mother lives in the
United States and is a recently naturalized American citizen. His sister is also a native-
born  American  citizen  who  also  lives  in  the  United  States.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at
Sections 11 and 17; Tr. 17-18.)
Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident of Taiwan. He and Applicant’s mother
are  divorced.  He  works  as  an  accountant  in  Taiwan.  Other  than  Taiwan’s  mandatory
military service when he was a young man, Applicant’s father has no connection to the
Taiwanese government. Applicant talks to his father every one or two weeks. His father
came to the United States after the incident in 2019 to support Applicant. Applicant last
visited Taiwan in 2016, before he joined the Navy. Applicant’s father knows very little of
what he does for a living. (Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 16-17, 36-37, 41.)
Taiwan
Applicant  has  contacts  with  Taiwan.  Accordingly,  it  is  appropriate  to  look  at  the
current situation concerning Taiwan. Taiwan is a multiparty democracy; whose authorities
generally respect the human rights of its citizens. Taiwan is an active collector of industrial
information and engages in industrial espionage, as shown by the administrative notice
documents in the record. However, the record does not demonstrate that the Taiwanese
government  seeks  to exert pressure  on  U.S.  citizens  to  collect  information from family
members  residing  in  country  or  abroad.  Finally,  it  is  worth  noting  that  the  U.S.
Government,  and  the  Defense  Department  in  particular,  have  a  close  and  continuing
relationship with Taiwan and its military, in accordance with the Taiwan Relations Act of
1979, which has governed policy in the absence of diplomatic relations or a defense treaty
with Taiwan.
China
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  set  forth  in  the  Administrative  Notice
documents  concerning  China,  which  are  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  China  is  a
large and economically powerful country, with a population of more than a billion people
and an economy growing at about 10% per year. China has an authoritarian government,
dominated by the Chinese Communist Party. It has a poor record with respect to human
rights,  suppresses  political  dissent,  and  engages  in  arbitrary  arrests  and  detentions,
forced  confessions,  torture,  and  mistreatment  of  prisoners. China  is  one  of  the  most
aggressive countries in seeking sensitive and protected U.S. technology and economic
intelligence. It targets the United States with active intelligence gathering programs, both
legal and illegal. As a result, it is a growing threat to U.S. national security.  In addition,
China  views  Taiwan  as  part  of  China.  China  has  engaged  in  many  different  coercive
diplomatic and military activities, seeking to isolate and intimidate Taiwan into unification
on China’s terms.
Mitigation
Applicant’s military supervisor, a senior chief petty officer (E-8), testified. She has
known  Applicant for six or seven  years. She  testified  that he  is a  “good  guy,” and also
stated that he is “a man of integrity.” (Tr. 43-49.)
