Applicant is 48 years old. He is married and has two children, a 7-year old daughter
and a 15-year old son. Applicant has a bachelor’s degree (2002). From March 1991 until
March  1999,  he  served  in  the  Army  Inactive  Reserve  and  was  honorably  discharged.
Since August 2019, Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor. (Item 3.)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  (1)  used  marijuana  with
varying  frequency  from  about  February  1994  to  present;  (2)  currently  uses  marijuana
daily;  (3)  has  grown  marijuana  from  about  2002  to  present;  (4)  used  marijuana  after
completing his SCA on June 9, 2020; (5) purchased marijuana from about February 1994
to at least 2002; (6) was arrested in about August 1998 for possession of marijuana and
charged  with  violating  the  Uniform  Controlled  Substances  Act  and  possessing
instruments of a crime. (Item 1.)
Applicant admitted the Guideline H allegations, noting that his use was primarily
medicinal and personal, which is legal in his home state. He also corrected the year he
began growing marijuana to 2012, not 2002, as alleged. Finally, Applicant answered that
he did not recall the exact charges of his 1998 arrest. (Item 3.)  The record supports the
SOR offenses charged in Applicant’s 1998 arrest. (Item 6.) In his SCA, Applicant stated
that he grows his own marijuana in quantities that are within his home state’s legal limits.
He has not sold or purchased marijuana in a decade. (Item 4.)
Applicant uses marijuana daily, because it helps relax him and controls his anxiety.
He only uses it in the evening after his children have been put to bed. Applicant has never
engaged in drug trafficking or the misuse of prescription drugs. His use has not affected
his  personal,  professional,  emotional  health,  reputation,
financial
responsibility.  Applicant  could  stop  his  use  at  any  time,  if  it  were  required  by  his
employment. (Item 5 at Personal Subject Interview (PSI).) He intends to use marijuana in
the future, unless he is actively holding a security clearance. (Item 4.)
judgment,  or
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  cross-alleged  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.d.  Applicant
answered that he “was completely honest and forthcoming … and did not attempt to hide
anything.” (Item 3.)  The SOR did not allege any falsification issues. (Item 1.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well   established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
indicates
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
A2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified  information  will  be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG
¶ 24 sets forth the concern, as follows:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance means any "controlled substance"  as defined  in 21  U.S.C.§  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG  ¶  25(c)  illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  .  .  .
cultivation . . . ; and
including
AG ¶ 25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
abuse . . . .
The only potentially applicable mitigating factor here is quoted below:
AG  ¶  26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment.
Applicant admitted  that he  has been  using  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
about  February   1994   to   present,  including   daily   use   currently,  that  he   has  grown
marijuana  from  about  2012  to  present  for his personal use,  and  purchased  marijuana  from
about  February   1994   to   at  least  2002.  He  was  arrested   in  about  August  1998   in
possession  of marijuana  and  charged  with  violating  the  Uniform  Controlled  Substances
Act  and   possessing   instruments  of   a   crime.   He  also  admitted   he   intended   to   continue
using   marijuana   in   the   future,   unless  it   is  prohibited   by   his  employer  or  he   is  actively
holding a security clearance.  Facts admitted  by an applicant in an SCA, an  answer to an
SOR,  or in  an  interview  require no  further proof  from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.
94-1159   at  4   (App.  Bd.  Dec.   4,  1995)  (“any   admissions  [applicant]   made   to   the   SOR
allegations . . . relieve  Department Counsel of  its burden  of  proof”); ISCR  Case  No.  94-
0569   at   4   and   n.1   (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n   applicant’s  admissions,  whether
testimonial or written, can provide  a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by  the  federal government under the  Controlled  Substances Act.  21  U.S.C. §  811  et seq.
The  knowing  or intentional possession  and  use  of  any  such  substance  is unlawful and
punishable  by   imprisonment,   a   fine   or  both.  21   U.S.C.  §   844.   In   an   October  25,  2014
memorandum, the  Director of  National Intelligence  affirmed  that the  use  of  marijuana  is
a  security  concern.  James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence   to   Federal   Laws  Prohibiting   Marijuana   Use  (October  25,  2014).  See   also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal, or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Because of Applicant’s past use of marijuana and his expressed intent to use in the
future, disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (g) apply here. The next inquiry is
whether any mitigating factors apply.
I  have  considered  mitigating  factor  AG  ¶  26(a).  Applicant  began  using  marijuana
almost 30 years ago.  Therefore, the inception of his use was long ago. He has, however,
continued his regular use to the present day. And Applicant intends to continue to use
marijuana. His use has been frequent, and Applicant plans to continue using marijuana
in the future, unless it conflicts with his employment or his security clearance. His use is
not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(a).
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
In assessing an allegation of detrimental personal conduct, I consider not only the
allegation and applicant’s answer but all relevant circumstances. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and
2(f)(1)-(6) (explaining the whole person concept). Under Guideline E for personal conduct,
the  concern  is  that  “[c]onduct  involving  questionable  judgment  …  or  unwillingness  to
comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,
trustworthiness, and ability classified or sensitive information.” Guideline E and Guideline
H  have  common  concerns  relevant  to  an  applicant’s  care  in  handling  classified  or
sensitive information. Those concerns must be carefully observed in the national security
arena. Therefore, Applicant’s conduct has not been mitigated.
Whole Person Concept
The record raises doubts about  Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a.- 1.f:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
