After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  51  years  old,  has  been  married  since  January  2001,  and  has  a
daughter 15 years old. He became unemployed in July 2019, when his employer went
out of business. He subsisted on state unemployment benefits until he found a new job
in  October  2019.  The  record  does  not  show  that  his  unemployment  contributed  to  his
SOR debts. Since August 2020, he has been employed by a defense contractor. (Items
3 and 4.)
The  SOR  alleged  seven  delinquent  debts  totaling  $28,019.  (Item  1.)  Applicant
admitted four of those allegations, SOR ¶¶ 1.a., c., f., and g., totaling $11,096. He denied
three  of  those  allegations,  SOR  ¶¶  1.b.,d.,  and  e.,  totaling  $16,923.  (Item  2.)  More
specifically, the SOR debts and Applicant’s Answers are as follow:
SOR ¶  1.a. is an account past due for $599 with a total balance of $642. (Item 1.)
Applicant admitted this allegation.  (Item 2.) This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶  1.b. is an account charged off for $16,431. (Item 1.) Applicant denied this
allegation, saying: “I deny. I am  in  a  class action  lawsuit over this.”  (Item 2.) Applicant
provided no documents in support. This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶  1.c. is an account in collection for $2,166. (Item 1.)  Applicant admitted this
allegation. (Item 2.)
SOR  ¶   1.d.  is  an  account  in  collection  for  $395.  (Item  1.)  Applicant  denied  this
allegation, saying: “I deny. They were given 1 weeks notice to pick up a cable box and
never showed up. Box was left with property manager.”  (Item 2.) Applicant provided no
documents in support. This debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.e.  is  an  account  in  collection  for  $187.  (Item  1.)  Applicant  denied  this
allegation,  saying:  “I  deny.  First  I  am  hearing  of  this.”  (Item  2.)  Applicant  provided  no
documents in support. This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶  1.f. is an account in collection for $133. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted this
allegation,  saying:  “I  admit,  though  I  believe  I  have  paid  this  off.”  (Item  2.)  Applicant
provided no documents in support. This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶  1.g. is an account charged off for $8,155. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted this
allegation. (Item 2.)
Each SOR allegation is supported by the September 10, 2020 credit report. (Item
5.) Only SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and c. are reported delinquent on the April 26, 2022 credit report.
The other SOR debts are not reported at all. (Item 6.) Six of the seven SOR debts were
reported in collections in August 2020. (Item 5.) In his Personal Subject Interview (PSI),
he said that he was unaware that the accounts in question were delinquent. (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well   established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.  As  the
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly   consistent  standard
that   security
determinations should err, if  they  must,  on  the  side  of  denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
for  a   security   clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative   guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of  law  that apply  together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of  the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
