Applicant is 26 years old. He graduated from high school in 2014 and enlisted in
the U.S. Navy later that year. He received non-judicial punishment in 2016 for his drug
use and was reduced in rank to Fireman (E-3). He was discharged from the Navy under
other than honorable conditions in July 2017. He has not used marijuana since testing
positive in 2016. In July 2019 he began working for a Defense Department contractor as
an instructor. He held a Secret security clearance during his service in the Navy.  He is
now  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  relation  to  his  employment.  Applicant  is
unmarried. He has cohabitated with a woman for the last three years, and they have a
young  child.  His  girlfriend  also  has  a  child  from  a  prior  relationship.  Applicant  and  his
girlfriend intend to marry at some point in the future. (Tr. at 23-28, 66; GE 1 at 20-21, 34.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he is
financially  overextended  with  delinquent  debts  and  therefore  is  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
The  SOR  identifies  ten  charged-off  or  past-due  debts  in  collection,  owed  by
Applicant and totaling about $27,000. The SOR also alleges that Applicant failed to file
his Federal income tax return for tax year (TY) 2017 in a timely manner. In his Answer,
Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. The existence and amounts of these debts
are also supported by credit reports in the record dated August 2, 2022; January 22, 2020;
and August 6, 2019. (GE 2-4.)
The status of the matters set forth in the SOR is as follows:
1.a.  Unfiled  TY  2017  Federal  tax  return.  Applicant did not  receive  a  copy  of  his W-
2   for  TY   2017,   following   his  discharge   from   the   Navy   during   that   tax   year.  After  his
discharge, he  no  longer had  access to  an  electronic copy  of  his W-2. He made  several
attempts   to   obtain  the   tax   documentation   from   the   Defense   Finance   and   Accounting
Service, but  was unsuccessful.  As a  result,  he  testified  that  he  was unable to  file  his tax
return for that year.  Applicant  believed  that  he  was owed  a  refund  for TY  2017  because
his  only   income   that  year   was  his  Navy   pay  for  seven   months.  After  the   hearing,  he
obtained   from   the   IRS   his   “Form    W-2    Wage    and    Tax    Statement”    for  TY   2017.   He
submitted  the  Statement,  which  reflects  that Applicant’s gross income   for that year  was
about $12,000  and  that  he  had  paid withholding  taxes of  about  $1,000. Applicant advised
that  he  used  the  information  from  the  Statement to  prepare and  file  his  tax  return  for TY
2017. This tax filing delinquency has been  resolved. (Tr. at 30-34;  AE M; AE N.)
1.b. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $727. Applicant failed
to pay this internet and cable account in 2015 while he was serving in the Navy and had
relocated to a new apartment. The debt was referred to a  collection agency. Applicant
worked  with  his  mother  to  address  debts  on his  credit  report.  His mother testified  that
Applicant paid a settlement of this debt. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 34-38, 73; GE 4 at
3; GE 5 at 4.)
1.c. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $623. Applicant failed
to pay this electric bill after he relocated in 2015. Applicant’s mother believes that she and
her son paid this debt. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 38-39, 74; GE 4 at 3; GE 5 at 4-5.)
1.d.  Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,089.  Applicant
failed to pay this account for a cellphone and cellular service in about 2015 or early 2016.
Applicant and his mother settled this account in 2020 for less than the full amount. This
debt is resolved. (Tr. at 39-41, 72; GE 2; GE 4 at 3; GE 5 at 4.)
1.e.  Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,010.  Applicant
failed to pay this account for a cellphone service in about 2016. Applicant does not recall
if he paid this debt, but his mother testified that Applicant paid a settlement of this debt.
This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 42-44, 73; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 4.)
1.f.  Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $7,936.  Applicant
defaulted on this auto-loan account with a credit union in 2017. He purchased the car in
late 2015 after returning from a deployment. His girlfriend at the time damaged the car in
an accident. She did not have a driver’s license. Applicant believed that a claim to repair
the car would not be covered by insurance. The car needed a safety inspection, and it
would  have  cost  Applicant  about  $3,000  to  repair  the  car  so  that  it  would  pass  the
inspection. He stopped paying the car loan because he could not drive the car.  He did
not return the vehicle to the dealer. He abandoned it and drove across the country with a
friend who had also been discharged from the Navy. Prior to the hearing Applicant had
not taken any steps to address this debt. After the hearing he contacted the creditor with
the guidance of his mother. Applicant entered into a payment plan with the creditor under
which he agreed to pay this debt with 310 bi-weekly payments of $25. Under the terms of
this plan, the final payment is due September 18, 2034. He submitted a letter from the
creditor confirming the terms of the payment plan.  Applicant has begun the process of
resolving this debt. (Tr. at 45-51; GE 2 at 5; GE 3 at 1; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 3; AE L.)
1.g.   Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,108.  Applicant
defaulted on this credit-card account with the same credit union as the lender referred to
in 1.f, above. He opened this account when he was in Navy boot camp. He stopped paying
this account after his separation from the Navy. Applicant explained that he was in bad
shape after leaving the Navy. His girlfriend had left him and his father had died in 2016.
He  admitted  that  he  acted  immaturely  by  just  ignoring  his  debts.  After  the  hearing,
Applicant  entered  into  a  payment  plan  with  the  creditor  to  begin  making  17  bi-weekly
payments  of  $100.  He  submitted  a  letter from  the  creditor  confirming  the  terms  of  the
payment plan. Applicant has begun the process of resolving this debt. (Tr. at 51-52; GE
2 at 4; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 4; AE J.)
1.h.  Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,415.  After  his
separation from the Navy and his loss of income, Applicant defaulted on this unsecured
personal loan account with the same credit union referred  to above. After the hearing,
Applicant entered into a payment plan with the creditor to repay this debt with 13 bi-weekly
payments of $100. He submitted a letter from the letter from the creditor confirming the
terms of the payment plan. Applicant has begun the process of resolving this debt. (Tr. at
55-57; GE 2 at 5; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 4; AE K.)
1.i.   Debt  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,954.  In  2017
Applicant also defaulted on this unsecured personal loan account with the same credit
union. After the hearing, Applicant entered into a payment plan with the creditor to repay
this  debt  with  111  bi-weekly  payments  of  $25.  Under  the  terms  of  this  plan,  the  final
payment is due February 1, 2027. He submitted a letter from the creditor confirming the
terms of the payment plan. Applicant has begun the process of resolving this debt. (Tr. at
55-57; GE 2 at 5; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 4; GE 5 at 4; AE M.)
1.j. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $7,579. Applicant took
out this personal loan at a time he was living with his prior girlfriend, and they were living
beyond their means. He acknowledged that he was young and immature and did not know
how to manage his finances. He could not pay the loan payments and defaulted. After
defaulting, he chose to ignore this debt. Applicant’s mother testified that she believes that
she and her son resolved this debt. Applicant may have paid this debt, but there is limited
evidence that it is in fact resolved. (Tr. at 57-58, 74; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 5; GE 5 at 4.)
1.k. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $502. This debt is for
a store credit card account that Applicant could not pay. In 2018 or 20219 he received a
call from the collection agency and was offered a settlement of one-half of the debt. He
vaguely recalls paying the settlement either at the time or at a later date. Applicant may
have paid this debt, but there is limited evidence that it is in fact resolved. (Tr. at 58-59;
GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 5; GE 5 at 4.)
Mitigation
Applicant and  his  girl friend  jointly  have  one  credit card  and  a  car  loan.  They  pay
both   accounts  monthly.  They   use   the   credit   card  to   purchase   gas   and   repay   the   debt
promptly.  They   do   not   carry   a   balance   on   the   credit-card   account.   Now   that   he   has  a
family  to  support, he  takes his financial obligations seriously. He and  his girlfriend  budget
their   money   every   week  and   track   their   spending.  They   work  hard  to   live   within  their
means.  His  girlfriend  works as a  caretaker for a family  member.  They  save  money  every
month  and  now  have  about  $6,000  or $7,000  in savings for emergencies.  Applicant  has
received   financial  counseling   from   his   mother.  He  also  receives  advice  from  his  co-
workers who are financially successful. (Tr. at 59-69.)
Applicant’s  mother  also  testified  about  her  son’s  change  in  maturity  as  he  has
become responsible for his girlfriend, their child, and the girlfriend’s other child. He has
“stepped  up  his  game.”  His  mother  said  that  he  loves  his  job  and  is  trying  to  get  his
finances resolved so that he can “move forward in life.” She believes he took a big step
by admitting to her that he had been irresponsible with his finances and asking for her
advice. She testified that they reviewed his credit report carefully. She then insisted that
Applicant call each of his creditors in front of her and work out settlements, which she
then paid. She paid about $4,000 in total for the settlements Applicant was able to reach
with his creditors. In return for funding the settlements, she demanded that Applicant turn
over his paychecks to her, and she gave him a small amount of spending money. She
said that she was “very rough on him” and did not “sugar coat” anything. They addressed
the debts with the creditors that said the debts could still be paid and were told by some
creditors that the accounts were closed and were not payable at this time. The four credit
union  debts  discussed  above  were  in  this  category.  She  concluded  her  testimony  by
saying that she was very proud of her son and the mature man he has become.  (Tr. at
69-76.)
After  the  hearing,  Applicant  advised  that  he  contacted  certain  unidentified
collection  agencies  to  make  payment  arrangements  to  resolve  some  of  his  remaining
debts. Other than the four credit union debts, he was unable to receive any documentation
regarding these settlements prior to the extended record closure date. He also wrote that
he  is  applying  for  a  second  job  to  earn  additional  income  to  enable  him  to  pay  his
delinquent debts and to improve his overall finances. (AE O.)
In addition, Applicant submitted eight character letters in support of his case for
mitigation.  Several  of  the  Navy  leaders  involved  in  the  educational  program  on  which
Applicant works wrote to praise the effectiveness of the program. They also praised his
valuable contribution as an instructor. Applicant’s manager wrote a detailed statement in
which he noted Applicant’s “tireless work ethic, high level of integrity, steadfast reliability,
uncompromising  standards,  heartfelt  values,  and  strict  adherence  to  the  Navy’s  core
values of Honor, Courage, and Commitment.” Two colleagues also wrote letters praising
Applicant’s professional expertise and character. (AE A through G.)
