Applicant is 29 years old.  He is married with  no  children.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to
obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline M –  Use of Information Technology
Prior to his current employment, Applicant worked for another defense contractor
from  May  2015  to  July  2018  at  which  time,  due  to  his  misconduct  and  violations  of
company  policies,  Applicant  agreed  to  resign  in  lieu  of  termination.  Applicant  began
working for his current employer in August 2019.
The SOR alleged the following misconduct:
1.a.  On multiple occasions between November 2017 and July 2018 Applicant used his
company  computer  (laptop)  to  stream  and  view  pornographic  videos  and/or  images
(sexually  explicit  material)  in  violation  of  company  policy.  (See  Applicant’s  Answer  to
the SOR.)
1.b.  Applicant  used  the  “InPrivate  Browsing”  mode  while  using  the  internet  explorer
browser  to  stream  and  view  the  explicit  pornographic  videos  and  images  to  evade
detection of websites he visited while surfing the internet.  The InPrivate Browsing mode
allowed him to surf the internet without leaving a digital footprint such as the browsing
history, temporary internet files, form data and cookies, which are not retained when the
browser is exited.  By using this InPrivate Brower mode, Applicant attempted to conceal
his behavior knowing it was in violation of company policy.
1.c.  Applicant introduced malware computer viruses onto the company’s IT System by
using his company assigned computer to stream and view pornographic videos and/or
images via his YouTube and Instagram accounts.  Applicant explained that he realized
that he had identified a loophole of sorts where his identity was not associated  with his
internet  browsing.  He  states  that  he  removed  his  own  access  to  the  resources  in  a
voluntary  attempt  to  end  his  misconduct  on  his  own,  however  his  misconduct  was
identified  by  his  employer  when  he  began  accessing  sexual  content  through  his
personal  computer’s  direct  network  connection  and  inadvertently  introduced  malware.
He states that it was through the remote server and desktop emulator that he was able
to access sexually explicit content at work without discovery dating back to 2017.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
2.a.  See the discussion set forth in subparagraphs 1.a. and 1.c. above.
In  July  2018  Applicant  provided  false  or  misleading  statements  to  company
2.b.
officials  who  were
in
subparagraphs  1.a,  and  1.c.  Applicant  changed  his  response  only  after  being
confronted with evidence substantiating his misconduct.
investigating  his  acts  of  misconduct  described  above
2.c.  At the conclusion of the company’s investigation, Applicant was given an option to
resign in lieu of being terminated form employment for his acts of misconduct described
above.  Applicant opted to resign.  He is not eligible for rehire.
2.d.  Applicant  provided  false  or  misleading  statements  to  the  Department  of  Defense
investigators  during  his  interviews  in  February  and  March  2020,  by  stating  that  he
thought  because  the  site  was  not  blocked,  it  was  acceptable  to  view  content from  the
site; when in fact he knew viewing explicit content of this sort was not acceptable and
that others had gotten into trouble for viewing similar content.
2.e.  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  March  29,  2019,  and
December  6,  2019.
In  response  to  Section  13A,  which  asked  him  about  his
“Employment  Activities,”  Applicant  provided  the  reason  for  leaving  his  previous
employment as there being no long-term career path following an incident involving an
inadvertent  accessing  of  malware  embedded  in  a  YouTube  video  while  at  work.  He
stated  that  he  had  no  knowledge  that  the  YouTube  video  had  malware  embedded,  or
that  one  could  embed  malware  in  a  YouTube  video.  Applicant  was  not  truthful  in  his
response.  Applicant  failed  to  state  the  true  reason  he  left.  He  left  in  lieu  being
terminated.  Applicant took the option to resign in lieu of being terminated for cause by
his company for acts of misconduct described in paragraph 1, above.
2.f.   The  same  questionnaire,  also  asked  Applicant  under  Section  13A,  entitled,
“Received  Discipline  or  Warning”,  about  the  particulars  of  the  discipline  he  received.
Applicant stated that he was suspended with pay for roughly two weeks for the incident,
and that the investigation into the incident  with malware  was accessed via a YouTube
video.  Applicant claims that the suspension was with pay, and that it was therefore not
considered to be an action of formal discipline by the company.  He further stated that
he wanted to be honest and forthcoming with his answer.  Applicant was not truthful in
his  response.  Applicant’s  misconduct  instigated  a  formal  investigation  that  concluded
that he violated company policy, resulting in his job termination.  In lieu  of termination,
Applicant was suspended without pay during the investigation period, and the company
would have fired him for cause had he not taken the option they gave him to resign.
Applicant now acknowledges his sexual addiction, which he believes stems from
his  childhood trauma  of  being molested.  He  admits that he  initially attempted to  deny
his  behavior  and  tried  to  maintain  secrecy  until  he  could  no  longer  keep  his  problem
secret.  He admits now that he always knew his actions were wrong, and in violation of
company  policy.  He  lied  to  investigators  not  only  to  avoid  the  consequences  of  his
actions,  but  to  avoid  the  shame,  pain,  and  embarrassment  of  being  in  front  of  others
and having them know his situation.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
He  states  that  he  currently attends bi-weekly therapy sessions  with  his certified
sexual  addiction  therapist/counselor,  who  helps  him  to  actively  pursue  health  and
freedom.  He is a member of a sexual addiction support group, is working the program,
and  is  accountable  to  other  group  members.  After  living  with  his  addiction  for  many
years, he believes he has successfully broken the addictive cycle thanks to the help and
support of his counselors, support group, and personal support network.  He stated that
he is committed to ongoing sexual health.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  counselor  dated  February  15,  2022,  indicates  that
Applicant  was  referred  by  the  pastor  of  his  church  for  his  long-standing  pornography
addiction.  Applicant  received  a  total  of  eleven  sessions  of  individual  or  marriage
counseling  between  February  27,  2017,  and  February  7,  2022,  when  his  attorney
requested a summary of the counseling.  Applicant is said to have made progress with
his addiction before his wife moved out of state.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
A  letter from  Applicant’s biblical counselor, who provided help to  Applicant from
2017  to  2019,  indicates  that  in  his  opinion,  Applicant  has  stopped  engaging  in
pornography  and  now  realizes  the  wrong,  foolishness,  and  harm  it  has  caused  to  his
wife  and  others.  Applicant  also  appears  to  understand  the  dangers  pornography  can
have to his personal and professional life.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
Numerous  letters  of  recommendation  from  various  individuals  who  know  the
Applicant  well,  and  some  of  whom  have  worked  closely  with  Applicant  attest  to  his
exemplary  behavior,  integrity,  reliability  and  trustworthiness.  They  all  support  his
request for access to classified information.  (Applicant’s Exhibits O through X.)
Applicant’s  performance  appraisals  for  the  periods  from  2020  and  2021,  reflect
ratings of “exceeds expectations.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit J.)
