After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  56-years-old.  He  has  been  married  since  1988  and  has  two  adult
children. He received bachelor’s and master’s degrees in electrical engineering in 1988
and  1994,  respectively.  He  was  employed  in  various  positions  for  a  federal  contractor
from June 1990 to November 2019, and has been employed as a senior system engineer
for another federal contractor since November 2019. He supported the same DoD agency
for more than 20 years until June 2020. (GE 1, 3; AE C, D, F-H, K, L; Tr. 22-23, 38-39,
54-55)
Applicant has held a security clearance since 1988. He was granted access to a
classified  DoD  IT  system  in  approximately  2005.  He  was  provided  email  accounts  on
classified and unclassified DoD IT systems and issued a Government laptop computer.
He  has  received  training  on  information  security  and  the  proper  handling  of  classified
information, including periodic refresher training. His access to classified information was
suspended in June 2020 and his security clearance was suspended in November 2020.
(GE 1, 3, 4, 7; AE D; Tr. 12-23, 42, 48, 55-56, 73-74)
From  approximately  1999  to  March  2020,  Applicant  maintained  a  large,
comprehensive  electronic  spreadsheet  file  (spreadsheet)  containing  his  personal
information  including  commercial  account  access  information,  tax  and  other  financial
information, medical information, and to-do lists. The spreadsheet included approximately
20 worksheet tabs of information. From approximately 1999 to 2015, he maintained the
spreadsheet on an encrypted, personal universal serial bus (USB) drive that he accessed
and updated, at home or work, as needed. He reported that in approximately 2015, DoD
revised  its  information  security  rules  and  prohibited  the  introduction  of  personal  USB
drives  onto  DoD  IT  equipment.  From  2015  to  2019,  he  maintained  and  routinely
transmitted the spreadsheet as an encrypted, password protected file between his DoD
and personal email accounts. (GE 2; AE L; Tr. 38-43, 53-58)
From at least 2015 to March 2020, he also maintained protected DoD information
in the spreadsheet including safe access information, and personal identification numbers
(PINs) for facility access, unclassified and classified IT network access, and for his DoD
ID card. The word “Safe” was followed by a six letter passcode which could be converted
into a DoD safe’s numerical combination. (Tr. 63-64, 69-71; AE L at 1) He maintained the
protected DoD information in a single worksheet tab titled “info” along with passwords for
various  personal  accounts  and  for  his  home  safe.  (Tr.  41)  He  routinely  accessed  and
revised the spreadsheet to reflect changes in his personal and protected DoD information
including the safe’s passcode in 2017. (GE 1, 2, 4; AE L; Tr. 40-42, 53-57)
Applicant  reported  that  in  2019,  the  DoD  agency  he  supported  revised  their
information security rules to prohibit transmission or receipt of encrypted emails between
DoD and personal email accounts. He said that in compliance with that policy, he ceased
emailing updated  versions  of  the  encrypted file  from his personal email account to his
DoD email account. By March 2020, he reached a point where the copy of his personal
information was dated and he felt it necessary to have an updated spreadsheet available
for access at  work.  He  attempted  to email the  encrypted  spreadsheet file  between  his
personal and DoD email accounts a couple of times, but the files could not be processed.
He said that he then removed the encryption and attached the spreadsheet to emails that
he transmitted between his personal and DoD email accounts. (GE 4; AE L)
In April 2020, DoD security personnel notified Applicant that they were conducting
a preliminary inquiry into the suspected spillage of classified information  attributable to
his March 2020 email transmission of a file that included a safe passcode. He confirmed
the  spreadsheet contained the word “Safe” followed by a passcode for a DoD safe that
he previously had access to, and also included his DoD IT network PINs. (AE L at 2-3)
He  admitted  his  responsibility  for  including  that  information  in  the  spreadsheet.  He
reported  sending  approximately  four  written  responses  to  the  DoD  security  personnel
conducting the preliminary inquiry between April 24 and June 2, 2020, “to  explain  [his]
actions and  answer questions.” (AE  L  at 3)  He has repeatedly claimed that he  did not
recall the spreadsheet included the DoD Safe passcode when he transmitted the March
2020  emails.  He  stated  that  he  informed  DoD  security  personnel  conducting  the
preliminary
the  spreadsheet
“approximately a year ago” or “sometime in early/mid 2019” because  that “was the  last
time  [he]  had  sent  the  spreadsheet  to  his  [DoD]  computer”  and  because  it  had  been
approximately a year since he had access to that safe. (AE L at 3) He also stated that
when initially questioned about the incident he admitted that he had made such a transfer
“a  couple  of  times  in  [March]  2020.”  (GE  4  at  2)  He  said  that  he  was  focused  on  the
suspected  March  2020  spillage  in  his  responses,  and  that  he  was  attempting  to  only
answer the question asked, because he was sensitive to engineers’ reputation for being
too long-winded in their responses. (GE 4; AE L; Tr. 58-61, 74-76)
information
the  DoD
included
that  he
inquiry
in
Applicant has stated that prior to submitting his June 4, 2020 response, he  was
anxious that the Government’s “concern could now be about my long-term transferring of
my file. My mind was fixed, however, on the thought that I needed to answer the question
that was being asked (my March 2020 infraction) and that it was not correct to bring in a
new ‘broader’ email concern.” (AE-L at 3) He also noted that if he could have discussed
details of his compromise with someone other than  a direct security manager, it would
have been possible for him to discuss his use of the spreadsheet in the context of the
Guideline E allegations. (GE 2, 4; AE L; Tr. 35-36, 74-76)
DoD  security  personnel  determined  that  on  about  March  5,  2020,  Applicant
transmitted the spreadsheet including a passcode that identified the combination to a DoD
safe, and PIN numbers for access to his DoD sponsor’s facility, unclassified and classified
DoD IT networks, and his DoD ID card. A preliminary inquiry found that the spreadsheet
contained classified information. Further analysis by security personnel determined that
he had transmitted a version of the spreadsheet including sensitive DoD information from
his unclassified DoD email account to his personal email account approximately once a
week  (223 times) from at least 2015 to March  2020, and that over a  period of  several
years  he  appeared  to  routinely  update  sensitive  DoD  information  in  the  spreadsheet,
including the safe passcode in 2017. (GE 1, 2, 4; AE L; Tr. 49, 79-99)
In his July 2020 security clearance application (SCA), Applicant reported that he
had been warned or disciplined in April 2020, because he “sent FOUO Information (PII)
in an unclassified email environment,” and “stored and sent classified information within
an  unclassified  email  environment.”  (GE  1  at  12-13)  He  reported  that  his  security
clearance eligibility/access had been suspended in June 2020 because he “sent classified
information within an unclassified environment.” (GE 1 at 39)
Applicant stated  that in June  2020, he  learned  that the  DoD security  concerns were
his long-term  transmission  of a  spreadsheet,  and  lack of transparency  about his conduct.
He said that he  “made   full   disclosure of   [his]  actions at [his]  next opportunity, which was
during  his [security  clearance  background  interviews]”   in July  and August 2020.  (AE  L  at
3)  During  those  background  interviews  with  a  government investigator, Applicant said that
he had  transmitted  the  spreadsheet as an  encrypted  file  between  his personal and  DoD
email  accounts.  He reported  that in  March 2020, he  unsuccessfully  attempted  to  email
the  encrypted  spreadsheet file  between  his personal and  DoD email accounts  a  couple
of   times,  “but  the   files   could  not  be   processed.”    (GE  4   at  1,  2)  He   said  that  he   then
removed  the  encryption  and  transmitted  the  spreadsheet.  When  asked  why  he  had  tried
to  send  the  encrypted  file  after a  policy  prohibiting  that practice  was instituted, he  said
that policy  was neither written  nor explicit  and that when  he  had previously tried  to  send
an  encrypted  file  and  the  system  would not permit its transmission,  he had  assumed,  or
it was implied  that transmission  of encrypted documents  was prohibited  by  policy. (GE  4
at 5-6)  He said  he  had  forgotten  the  spreadsheet  included  his  classified  DoD IT network
PIN, DoD ID PIN, and safe  passcode.  He also  told a  background  investigator that he  had
added  the  DoD safe  passcode  to  the  spreadsheet  approximately  a  year earlier  and  sent
those   files  to   himself  via  email.  (GE   4   at  3)  He  said   that  he   last  accessed   classified
documents in  the  safe  in mid-2019,  while  working  for a  previous  employer. He also said
that the  safe  had  since  been  relocated  and  was no  longer used  for classified  storage.  He
acknowledged   that  he   was  not  supposed   to   store   classified   information   with   personal
information,  and  said  that he  had  been  trained  on  and  was aware of  policies  regulating
the  use  of  DoD email,  and  the protection of  sensitive and classified information. (GE 4)
Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  2.a,  and  2.b,  with
explanations; admitted, in part, and denied, in part, allegations at SOR ¶¶ 1.c, and 2.c,
and denied the allegation at SOR ¶ 2.d. (SOR Response)
SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and 2.a  allege  that  in  about  March  2020  Applicant  improperly
sent  an  email  with  an  attachment  that  contained  sensitive  DoD  information,  including
network and facility access PINs, and a safe combination, and that an inquiry determined
that the spreadsheet sent from his DoD email to his personal email account contained
classified  information. In  response to the SOR,  he admitted  the allegations at SOR ¶¶
1.a, 1.b, and 2.a, explaining that he had intended to transmit his personal information, but
had  forgotten  that  he  had  previously  included  sensitive  DoD  information  in  the
spreadsheet. He said that he had been told this information was not classified, that he
had previously included it in the file because he feared that he might forget the access
information, and that his conduct was an inadvertent, isolated event. (SOR Response)
SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 2.c allege that Applicant exhibited a prolonged pattern of behavior
that endangered DoD information security, and that between 2015 and 2020 he routinely
updated sensitive DoD information in the spreadsheet file he sent between his DoD and
personal email accounts including a safe passcode, and that those actions contradicted
written statements he provided to security officials. In response to the SOR he admitted,
in part, and denied, in part, those allegations explaining that:
I sent my  personal file  to  my  personal email. I  would do  this periodically  to
provide  myself  updates  regarding  my  [personal information].  Approximately
a  year prior to  the  security  incident,  I included  the  sensitive  information  in
my   personal  file   so   I   would  not  forget  it  in  case   I  needed   to   lock  up
something  classified. I  did this so  long  ago, that when  I sent the  file, I had
forgotten  the  sensitive  information  was also  included. .  .  .  The  file  contained
my  personal information, which I would occasionally  update  if  necessary.
When    making    my    written    statements,    I  stated    that  “approximately    a    year
ago,  I    included    this  information”  in    reference    to    the   sensitive   information
included in the  file update I sent in March 2020.
(SOR Response at 2, 4)
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that about once a week from 2015 to March 2020, Applicant
emailed  a  spreadsheet  containing  his  own  personal  information,  including  financial,
medical,  and  commercial  account  access  codes,  from  his  work  email  account  to  his
personal  email  account.  He  admitted  the  allegation  noting  that  the  spreadsheet  was
encrypted, except for transmissions in March 2020. (SOR Response at 3-5).
SOR ¶ 2.d alleges that he was likely aware that he was mishandling sensitive data,
that he provided misleading responses to security officials investigating the matter, and
that  he  misled  officials  about  the  nature  and  extent  of  his  behavior.  He  denied  that
allegation,  stating  that  he  truthfully  answered  questions  from  security  officials.  (SOR
Response at 2, 4)
The Government submitted an Information Security Program instruction, effective
March 22, 2018, for the DoD agency that Applicant had supported. The instruction states
that Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) applies to Unclassified Information to which
access or distribution limitations may be applied including information eligible for marking
as  “For  Official  Use  Only”  (FOUO).  The  instruction  applies  to  on-site  contractors  and
prohibits transmission of that agency’s CUI to personal electronic accounts, and requires
contractor personnel complete Information Security training annually. (GE 5 at 10, 32, 54)
Applicant  testified   that  from   at  least  2015   to   March  2020,  he   transmitted   a
spreadsheet that included  a  passcode  for a  DoD safe  used  to  store  classified  information
between  his DoD and  personal email  accounts.  (Tr.  58-64)  He said the  word “Safe” was
followed  by  a  six  letter  word that  correlated  to  the  safe’s numerical combination, but  did
not specify the safe’s location   or number. (Tr. 60-64; AE l at 1-3)  He  testified that he was
notified   in  April  2020   that  the   presence   of   safe   password   in  an   email   attachment  was
being  investigated  as spillage  of  classified  information.  (Tr.  59-60) He disputed  that the
spreadsheet included  classified information, stating that he understood  from training that
a  piece  of information  without context was not by  itself classified.  (Tr. 26-29; AE  L  at 2).
He testified  that he  believed that his DoD PINs including his classified  IT  network, facility
access,  and  ID card  PINs  were sensitive, but not classified  information.  (Tr.  30-32,  35,
48-51,   64-67;  AE   L   at  2)   He   acknowledged   that  he   had   not   asked   whether   the
aforementioned  DoD information  was classified  or not.  (Tr. 48) He said that he  notified
his  company’s  security    officer  about  the   potential  March  2020   spillage,  after  he   was
informed  of the  suspected  spillage  by  a DoD security  officer  in  April 2020. (Tr. 35-36, 50-
52) He testified  that  he  did not disclose  that he  had  updated  DoD sensitive  information  in
the   spreadsheet  for  a   number  of  years  because   he   was  focused   on   the   unencrypted
March 2020  email. (Tr.  34-35) He said that he  did not understand  the  concern was about
“the   issue   over the   extended   period   of   time   since   2015,” until   June  2020  after his company
received  a  letter  explaining  why  his facility  access had  been  revoked.  (Tr. 51-52,  74-76).
He testified  that  he  had  complied  with  post-incident counselling, and  had  removed  all  DoD
sensitive information  from  the spreadsheet. (Tr. 35-36)
He testified that he kept back-up copies of the spreadsheet including the sensitive
DoD information on his home computer and in a commercial storage system. (Tr. 64). He
said that prior to March 2020, the spreadsheet file was encrypted in order to protect the
contents. He noted that it was regular practice at the agency he supported, and consistent
with his training to encrypt CUI and FOUO information transmitted via unclassified email.
(Tr. 28-29) He explained  that he had  reported  transmitting classified  information  in  his
SCA, because he was answering the questions that were asked. He testified that he had
truthfully answered all investigator and SCA questions, based upon his understanding of
those  questions  at  the  time.  (Tr.  35)  He  also  testified  that  sometime  in  2019  the  DoD
agency he  supported prohibited  the  transmission  of  encrypted emails  to  and from that
agency. (Tr. 39-40)
A DoD counter-insider threat security official testified that investigation determined
that the spreadsheet included classified and sensitive DoD information.  (Tr. 78-99) He
said that Applicant’s classified network PIN, which could be used in conjunction with a
chipped  card  to  gain  access  to  a  classified  DoD  IT  network  was  determined  to  be
classified. (Tr. 94-99) He testified that the PIN for the DoD Agency’s door (“that’s how it
was  labeled”),  his  DoD-issued  identification  card  PIN,  and  the  safe  passcode  were
sensitive DoD information. (Tr. 86, 96-99) He also testified that there was no evidence
that the classified information had been intentionally leaked or otherwise compromised.
(Tr. 83, 94)
Applicant provided documentary evidence that he has an excellent reputation, and
has established a sound record of performance for his employers and the DoD entities
they support. Information provided in this regard notes his reliability, good character, and
recognized  technical  skills.  Many  of  his personal references  are familiar  with  the  SOR
allegations  and  expressed  no  reservations  about  recommending  him  for  a  security
clearance. He also received numerous awards and was active in his community. In May
2020, Applicant was counseled on his employer’s and sponsoring DoD agency’s policies
regarding handling sensitive information. (SOR Response; AE A-L)
