Applicant is 49 years old, married, and has one young child. He was born in Peru
and immigrated to the United States in 1998 at the age of 26. He became a U.S. citizen
in 2004. He graduated from high school and earned a bachelor’s degree in 1996 in Peru.
He has also received two master’s degree, one in computer science (2000) and a second
in  business  administration  (2007).  Both  degrees  were  awarded  by  U.S.  universities.
Applicant has worked for Defense Department contractors as an engineer since 2015. He
was  granted  national  security  eligibility  in  December  2016.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  his
security clearance in relation to his employment. (Tr. at 22-28; GE 1 at 5-7, 10-11; GE 5.)
Paragraph 1  –  Guideline K, Handling Protected Information
The Government alleges two incidents in which Applicant failed to comply with his
employer’s  rules  and  regulations  for  handling  protected  information.  Both  incidents
occurred in 2019 and involved Applicant’s use of his work computer while in Mexico. After
the first incident in January 2019, he was verbally warned by his employer (Company A)
that  his  use  of  a  company  computer  on  an  Internet  network  while  he  was  in  Mexico
violated company policy (SOR 1.a). After he again used his work computer in Mexico in
February 2019, he was terminated (SOR 1.b). Applicant admitted both allegations in his
Answer.
The details regarding these two incidents developed by the record evidence are
the following:
1.a  Verbal warning. At the hearing Applicant admitted that he violated the policy of
Company A by connecting his employer’s computer to an Internet network when he was
in Mexico visiting  his wife  and  child  in January  2019. At that time  he  was living  near the
Mexican  border  and  his wife  was living  and  working  in Mexico  near the  border. His young
child  was living  with  Applicant’s wife. He  crossed  the  border “continuously” to  see  his child
and  wife. Applicant worked  from  his home  in the  United  States, but also worked  in Mexico
when  visiting  his family. His work required  that he  connect  his computer to  the  internet
when   he   was  working   in  Mexico.   Company   A   discovered   that  he   was  logging   onto   its
computer network from  a  location  in  Mexico. He used  his wife’s Wi-Fi  system  to  access
the  internet.  At first he  did not know  that his actions violated  company  policy. He testified
that   he   was  merely   trying   to   fulfill   his   family   obligations  and   do   his   job.   His  supervisor
counseled  him  that his actions violated company policy.  (Tr. at 28-37.)
1.b   Employment  termination.  The  next  month  Applicant  repeated  his  action  of
connecting  his  company  computer  to  the  internet  while  visiting  his  family  in  Mexico.
Company  A  terminated  him.  At  the  hearing  he  admitted  that  he  knowingly  violated
company policy. (Tr. at 37- 39.)
Paragraph 2  –  Guideline M,  Use of  Information Technology
In this paragraph of the SOR, the Government alleges two separate incidents  in
November  2014  involving  Applicant’s  use  of  his  work  computer  in  violation  of  another
employer’s  (Company B) policy (SOR 2.a and  2.b). In addition  the Government  cross-
alleges the two aforementioned incidents involving connecting to an Internet network in
Mexico, as set forth in paragraphs 1.a and 1.b of the SOR (SOR 2.c).
The details regarding the two incidents in 2014 are the following:
2.a   Written   counseling.  On   November  4,   2014,   Applicant   received   written
counseling   from   his  supervisor  at  Company   B   for  failing   to   communicate   with   his
supervisor  effectively   and   for   loading   software  onto   his  work  computer  in   violation   of
Company  B’s policy.  In  his  Answer, Applicant denied  the  allegation  claiming  that  he  did
not  receive   any   counseling.  At  the   hearing   he   testified   that  he   did  not  recall   being
counselled   by   his  supervisor.  He  did  recall   that  his  supervisor  asked   that  employees
provide  him  with  a  list of  all  the  software loaded  on  their  computers and  he  determined
that   Applicant’s   list  was  incomplete.   Applicant  was  advised   that  his  actions  were
unacceptable   and   against   company   policy.  Applicant   then   removed   the   disallowed
software from  his company  computer after being  “yelled” at by  his supervisor. (Tr. at 40-
44; GE 3.)
2.b   Employment  termination.   On  November  20,  2014,  Company  B  terminated
Applicant  for his  failure  to  communicate  with  company  staff  and  management  about  a
serious error Applicant made to a client’s online system.  Applicant testified that he was
using a client’s database and he “mistakenly removed some information.” He testified that
he was questioned about his mistake. He believes the mistake was due to lack of training.
He did not initially admit his mistake, but “at the end of the day” he  “actually fessed up
and said, hey, this was my mistake” after checking his work further. He admitted that he
did not self-report his mistake. It was discovered  by  Company  B’s  client and the client
reported the error to Applicant’s supervisor. Applicant was terminated at that time. (Tr. at
44-46.)
2.c Cross allegations. The SOR cross alleges the allegations set forth in paragraph
1 of the SOR under Guideline K in this subparagraph under Guideline M.
Paragraph 3  - Guideline E, Personal Conduct
The   Government   alleges  two   instances  in   which  Applicant   provided   false
information in  his 2015 e-QIP.  Both  falsifications relate to his 2014 written warning (SOR
3.a) and  employment termination   (SOR 3.b),  which  Applicant did  not disclose  in  his e-
QIP, as required. In  both  allegations, the  Government alleges that the  omissions in the  e-
QIP   were  deliberate.   The   Government   also   cross-alleges  under  Guideline   E   the
allegations  set  forth   in   SOR   subparagraphs  1.a,  1.b,   2.a,   and   2.b.   In   his  Answer  he
admitted the  falsification allegations and provided  additional comments.
The details regarding the two falsification allegations are the following:
3.a   Failure   to   disclose   November  2014   employment   termination   for  cause.   In
Section 13A of the e-QIP Applicant was required to provide the reason for his termination
from  Company  B  in  November  2014.  He  responded  by  writing,  “I  was  laid  off  due  to
company  downsizing.”  At  the  hearing  Applicant  acknowledged  that  his  response  was
false. He explained he did not “want to remember that chapter,” but he said that  he told
the investigator the truth. An investigator in or about 2016 first interviewed applicant. The
interview following his submission of the e-QIP in November 2015 is not in the record.
(Tr. at 46-47; GE 1 at 13.)
3.b  Failure to  disclose  November 2014  written  warning  from  Company  B  and  his
termination, as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b. Another question in Section 13A of the e-
QIP asks for disclosure about receiving any written warnings from Employer B or being
“officially  reprimanded,  suspended,  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace.”
Applicant responded “No.” At the hearing, he explained that he made a mistake and used
“bad judgment” by falsely answering this question. He also testified that he disclosed his
termination during his two background interviews. Only the most recent interview, which
took place in September 2019, appears in the record. In  the investigator’s summary of
Applicant’s  2019  interview,  the  investigator  noted  that  Applicant  discussed  his  2014
termination by Company B and commented that Applicant stated he provided information
regarding that incident in his first interview after the submission of his 2015 e-QIP. (Tr. at
47-48; GE 1 at 13; GE 2 at 4.)
Paragraph 4  –  Foreign Influence
In paragraph 4 of the SOR, the Government alleges that Applicant’s wife is a citizen
and resident of Mexico and is employed by a Mexican public safety organization. In his
Answer  Applicant  denied  the  allegation  and  commented  that  his  wife  is  no  longer
employed.
The details regarding this allegation are the following:
4.a   Mexican   citizenship,   residency,  and   employment  of  Applicant’s  wife.
Applicant’s wife is a Mexican citizen and resides in Mexico. She has a U.S. tourist visa
that permits her to visit Applicant at his residence in the United States. She is no longer
employed, but she previously worked  in a small office in her city that runs a non-profit
organization dedicated to the safety of the residents of that municipality. In that position,
she received local government benefits, but was not an official government employee.
The organization received funding from both the city and private industry. She left her job
in or about May 2002 to care for her child. At that time, she was frustrated with her job
because of the corruption of the police and politicians in her city. Her organization was
not effective in making changes to the law enforcement culture in the city. She is now a
full-time mother and studies English. The new director of her former employer continues
to  seek  advice  from  Applicant’s  wife  even  though  she  is  no  longer  employed  at  that
organization. Applicant, his wife, and their child travel back and forth across the Mexican
border regularly. He estimated that he travels to Mexico about three times per week. He
does  not  do  any  work  while  he  is  in  Mexico.  Applicant  is  helping  his  wife  apply  for
permanent residency status in the United States. (Tr. at 49-60.)
Mitigation
Applicant testified that he made mistakes in the past, but that he has learned from
his mistakes. He has changed his behavior based upon what he learned. He believes that
he has done well the last three years complying with all rules and policies of his employers
and  performing  his  job  well.  Applicant  provided  three  reference  letters.  His  current
manager wrote about Applicant’s excellent job performance and value to his team. The
CEO of Applicant’s former employer (Company C) also praised Applicant’s performance
and  professionalism.  This  reference  noted  that  he  hired  Applicant  in  2019  with  full
knowledge  of Applicant’s termination from  Company A in 2019 and the reasons for his
termination.  He  affirmed  that  Applicant  has  learned  from  his  past  mistakes  and  fully
complied with all security directives and policies during his work for Company C. He also
commented that he would hire Applicant again based upon his performance. In addition
a former supervisor wrote that Applicant was trustworthy and reliable. (Tr. at 61, 70; AE
A; AE B; AE C.)
