Applicant is 52 years old and married for the third time. He has two children, one
of  whom  is  a  minor  living  with  his  second  ex-wife.  He  has  two  Bachelor’s  degrees.
Applicant began work with his current employer in  March 2017. He requires access to
sensitive personal information in connection with his employment. (Government Exhibit
1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18.)
The SOR contained four allegations under Guideline F, Financial Considerations,
concerning consumer debts. Applicant admitted all the allegations in the SOR under this
paragraph with explanations.
Evidence for the existence of the debts  set forth in the SOR is found in a credit
report of Applicant dated November 16, 2019. (Government Exhibit 3.) The total amount
of  past-due  indebtedness  owed  by  Applicant  is  alleged  to  be  approximately  $34,083.
None  of  the  debts  appear  in  two  other  credit  reports  submitted  by  the  Government
dated April 28, 2021; and May 23, 2022. (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.) The debts also
do not appear in a credit report dated February 12, 2021, and attached by Applicant to
his Answer.
Applicant  and  his second  wife  divorced  in  April  2014. The  debts  in  the  SOR  all
date  to  this  marriage.  He  has  consistently  stated  that  his  financial  difficulties  primarily
resulted  from  this  marriage  and  eventual  divorce.  Applicant  stated,  and  the  credit
reports  in  the  record  show,  that  he  has  been  consistent  in  paying  his  student  loans,
current  automobile  loans,  credit  cards,  and  child  support.  He  has  been  able  to  buy  a
house  and  an  automobile  recently.  His  current  financial  situation  is  stable.  (Tr.  17-18;
Government Exhibit 2 at 3-4.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F - Financial Considerations)
1.a.  Applicant  admitted  that  this  automobile  loan  in  the  amount  of  $5,441  had
been charged off. This debt related to an automobile that was retained by his ex-wife at
the  time  of  the  divorce.  She  did  not  maintain  the  payments  and  the  vehicle  was
repossessed  by  the  creditor  and  sold.  Applicant  testified  that  he  had  received  a  Form
1099-C  from  the  creditor  about  this  account,  but  he  did  not  introduce  a  copy  into  the
record. He further stated that he did not believe this was an active account that he could
pay.  Based  on  the  state  of  the  record,  there  is  insufficient  evidence  to  show  that  it  is
resolved.  (Tr. 20-23.)
1.b. Applicant admitted owing a past-due medical debt in the amount of $301. He
stated that this delinquency was due to his insurance company not paying the bill. Once
Applicant  was  informed  of  the  delinquency  he  resubmitted  the  bill  to  his  insurance
company.  He  stated  that  he  believed  the  debt  had  been  resolved  because  it  was  no
longer  showing  as  delinquent  on  his  credit  reports.  Based  on  the  state  of  the  record,
there is insufficient evidence to show that this debt has been resolved. (Tr. 26-27.)
1.c. Applicant admitted that he owed a charged-off credit card debt in the amount
of  approximately $11,563.  This  debt  arose during  his  marriage  to  his  second  wife.  He
stated  that  the  debt  had  been  forgiven  by  the  creditor  and  a  Form  1099-C  issued.
Applicant Exhibit A indicates that a credit card debt in the amount of $11,019 had been
discharged  and  forgiven.  He  testified  that  he  had  paid  the  resulting  taxes.  The  IRS
document further stated that the banking entity is the same as that set forth in allegation
1.d,  below,  which  is  not  that  stated  in  the  SOR  or  Government  Exhibit  3  for  this
allegation.  However,  based  on  the  fact  the  figures  in  the  credit  report  and  Applicant
Exhibit A are so close, and based on all other evidence in the record, I find that this debt
has been resolved. (Tr. 28-31.)
1.d.  Applicant admitted that he owed a charged-off credit card debt in the amount
of approximately $16,778. This debt also arose during his marriage to his second wife.
He stated that the debt had been forgiven by the creditor and a Form 1099-C issued. He
stated  that  he  had  paid  the  resulting  taxes.  Applicant  Exhibit  A  indicates  that  a  credit
card  debt  in  that  amount  had  been  discharged  and  forgiven.  I  find  that  this  debt  has
been resolved. (Tr. 28-33.)
