In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  (¶¶  1.a-1.e).  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 61 years old.  He is a citizen of Jordan, but was  born in Kuwait and
grew up there. He came to the United States in 1979 on a student visa. He married a U.S.
citizen in 1982, and they divorced in 1984. He became a U.S. citizen in August 1989. The
following month, he moved back to Kuwait for a year. After the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in
1990, he returned to the United States but traveled to Jordan to marry his current wife in
1991. She is now a dual U.S. and Jordanian citizen. They have three adult children who
are dual U.S. and Jordanian citizens. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1997, a master’s
degree in 2000, and in 2015 a doctoral degree through an online institution. In 2002, he
and his family moved back to Kuwait, and lived there until 2017. (Item 4, 5, 6)
While  living  in  Kuwait  from  2002  –  2017,  Applicant  worked  for  several  different
foreign companies. In this employment, he provided advice and support to several Kuwaiti
ministries and to a Kuwaiti scientific research institute. He is currently employed by a U.S.
government contractor as an Arabic interpreter and linguist. (Item 4, 5, 6)
In a background  interview,  Applicant stated that he does not have allegiance to
any country over the United States and that he would not betray this country. (Item 5, 6)
The SOR alleges:
SOR ¶ 1.a: One of Applicant’s sisters is a Jordanian citizen residing in Kuwait. He
admits the allegation. He reported having weekly contact with her by phone. (GE 5, 6)
SOR ¶  1.b: One of Applicant’s sisters is a citizen and resident of Jordan. He admits
the allegation. He reported having weekly contact with her by phone. (GE 5, 6)
SOR ¶  1.c:  Applicant maintains contact with  a friend who is a Lebanese citizen,
and  who  resides  in  Kuwait.  He  admits  the  allegation.  He  reported  having  occasional
contact with him by phone and in person. (GE 5, 6)
SOR ¶  1.d: Applicant maintains contact with a friend who is a dual citizen of Turkey
and  Lebanon,  and  who  resides  in  Kuwait.  This  friend  also  works  for  the  Turkish
Ambassador at the Turkish  Embassy in  Kuwait.  He  admits  the  allegation.  He  reported
having occasional contact with him by phone and in person. He stated that he has been
his friend for many years. (GE 5, 6)
SOR ¶  1.e: After becoming a U.S. citizen in August 1989, Applicant returned to live
in Kuwait from September 1989 – October 1990, and from March 2002 – June 2017. He
admits the allegation. He stated that he moved because his father was sick in 1989, and
in 2002, he was offered a job. (GE 5, 6)
Jordan
In AN 1, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2022,  about  the  United  States’  relations  with  Jordan  and  the  current
conditions in that country. I take administrative notice of the following facts:
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  assessed  Amman  as  being  a  high  threat
location  for  terrorism  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  government  interests.  Local,
regional, and transnational terrorist groups and individual extremists have demonstrated
a willingness and capacity to plan and execute attacks in Jordan.
Jordan continues to face a threat of persistent terrorist activity, both domestically
and along it borders. Part of the threat is due to its proximity to the conflicts in Syria and
Iraq, as well as its rejection of the Salafi-Jihadi interpretations of Islam.
Violent  extremist  groups  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  including  ISIS,  have  conducted  or
supported attacks in Jordan, and continue to plot against local security forces, U.S. and
western interests, and soft public targets.
Jordan has taken a prominent role in the coalition to defeat ISIS. However, regional
issues  and  U.S  involvement  in  the  region  can  inflame  anti-U.S./western  sentiment.
Recent surveys show that more than 80% of the population holds an unfavorable view of
the U.S. government.
There have been significant human rights issues in Jordan. The government has
taken some limited steps to investigate, prosecute, and punish officials who committed
abuses.
Lebanon
In AN 2, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2022,  about  the  United  States’  relations  with  Lebanon  and  the  current
conditions in county. I take administrative notice of the following facts:
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  urged  U.S.  citizens  to  reconsider  travel  to
Lebanon  due  to  crime,  terrorism,  armed  conflict,  civil  unrest,  kidnapping,  and  our
embassy’s limited capacity to provide support to U.S. citizens. It advises a “Do Not Travel”
warning to the border and refugee areas due to the potential for armed conflict.
The  Syrian  conflict has affected  the  county  economically  and  socially. More than
a   million  Syrian   refugees  have   strained  the   country’s weak  infrastructure  and  ability   to
deliver social services.
Terrorist groups operating in Lebanon include ISIS, and Hizballah, which is closely
allied with Iran. Hizballah has a strong influence in the country and actively participates
in the political system and runs social programs.
Hizballah has been responsible for terrorist attacks that have killed U.S. citizens
and  military  personnel.  Its  presence  continues  to  impede  effective  government  action
against terrorist incidents.
The  U.S.  has  recently  prosecuted  several  persons  connected  to  Lebanon  and
Hizballah for espionage, terrorism, and export violations.
There  have  been  significant  human  rights  issues  in  Lebanon,  although  the
government  structure  exists  to  prosecute  and  punish  officials  who  committed  abuses,
government officials enjoyed a measure of impunity.
Turkey
In AN 3, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2022,  about  the  United  States’  relations  with  Turkey  and  the  current
conditions in county. I take administrative notice of the following facts:
Turkey  is a  NATO ally, a  regional  partner, and  an  important security  partner. The
U.S. has committed to  improving its  relationship with Turkey.
The U.S. Department of State urges travelers to exercise increased caution due to
terrorism and arbitrary detentions. Parts of Turkey have increased risk, including areas
near the Syrian border. Terrorist attacks have occurred in Turkey over the last several
years.
Terror  groups  continue   plotting   possible   attacks  in  Turkey.  Terrorists   have
previously attacked  U.S. interests in Turkey, including  the  U.S. Embassy  in Ankara, the
U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul, and the  U.S. Consulate in Adana.
The  U.S. has sanctioned  Turkey’s defense  industry  for engaging   in transactions
with a Russian arms export entity.
Turkey is a member of the coalition to defeat ISIS. It has provided air space and
facilities for coalition operations in Iraq and Syria.
There have been significant human rights issues in Turkey. The government has
used  anti-terror  legislation  to  restrict  freedoms  and  compromise  the  rule  of  law.  There
have  been  politically  motivated  reprisals,  including  violence  and  threats  of  violence
against persons in opposition to or critical of the government.
Kuwait
In AN 4, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2022,  about  the  United  States’  relations  with  Kuwait  and  the  current
conditions in county. I take administrative notice of the following facts:
The U.S. and Kuwait have a long history of friendship and cooperation. In 1991,
the  U.S.  led  a multinational coalition  to  liberate  Kuwait  from  Iraqi occupation.  In  2003,
Kuwait provided a platform for operations in Iraq, and has played a similar role in the fight
to defeat ISIS. Kuwait is also a partner in U.S counterterrorism efforts.
In  the  2021  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  issued  by  the  U.S.
Department of State, it identified human rights concerns in Kuwait. The concerns included
credible  reports  of  torture  or  cruel,  inhuman,  or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment  by
government agents; arbitrary arrest; serious restrictions on free expression, the internet, and
the media; and substantial interference with the freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom
of association.
