Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.g.  He  denied  the  SOR
allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d, 1.e, 1.f, and 2.a though 2.d. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  55  years  old  and  married,  with  six  adult  children.  He  served  in  the
military from 1985 to 1996 and received an honorable discharge. He attended community
college in 2005, but did not earn a degree. He has been employed by a federal contractor
since June 2020. He had a three-month period of unemployment before then due to the
pandemic. He was employed from May 2019 to March 2020. He was unemployed due to
a medical issue from September 2017 to May 2019. Before then he was employed from
2009 to September 2017 by different civilian employers. He worked for federal contractors
from 1997 to 2007. In his security clearance application, he left a gap in his employment
history from 2007 to 2009. (Item 3)
The  debts alleged  in  the  SOR are corroborated  by Applicant’s admissions  in his
answer to the SOR, government interrogatories, statements to a government investigator,
other official documents, and credit reports from August 2020 and August 2021. (Items 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10)
The SOR alleges Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for a tax lien
entered in 2019, in the approximate amount of $55,308. Applicant denied the debt in his
SOR  answer.  He  said  he  hired  a  lawyer  and  his  tax  debt  was  entered  into  the  “Fresh
Start” program with the IRS. He stated: “If that program has been rescinded, I am unaware
as  I  have  not  received any further correspondence  from  the  Internal Revenue  Service
about his matter.” In Applicant’s February 2022 response to Government Interrogatories
he  stated that he had applied for the IRS “Fresh Start” program and  was accepted. He
could not recall the name of  the tax firm that assisted him and said he did not have a
current  federal  tax  liability  since  he  started  the  program.  He  also  stated  he  did  not
currently have an installment agreement or other payment plan with the IRS. (Items 2, 3,
5)
The IRS website states the Fresh Start program is a program that helps taxpayers
by adopting flexibility in Offers-In-Compromise (OIC) terms, which allows a taxpayer to
settle an amount owed for less. The IRS will not accept an OIC if the taxpayer can pay
the  amount  owed  in  full  or  through  a  payment  plan.  The  IRS  looks  at  a  reasonable
collection   potential. Applicant  did  not  provide   any   documentary   evidence   that  he   is
participating  in this program, the  terms of the agreement,  the  amount he  is paying  to  the
IRS  through  this program, that his tax  liability was forgiven,  or the  tax  lien  was removed.
The tax lien is unresolved. (Item 5)
Applicant admitted he owed the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b ($43,573) and 1.g
(past-due mortgage payment of $8,753 on a balance of $153,931). In his SOR answer
regarding the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b, he said he was currently “working with a debt specialist
to work on the remainder of my outstanding debt in anticipation of applying for a mortgage
loan.” This debt was for a swimming pool loan he obtained in 2016, which he stopped
paying in  2019.  (Item 3)  Regarding the  debt in  SOR  ¶ 1.g,  he  stated  his property had
gone into foreclosure and “sold by the bank for less than what they would have received
at a ‘short sale.’ After the foreclosure sale, I did not receive any correspondence regarding
any balance owed. This is also being addressed by my debt specialist.” Applicant did not
provide any evidence to support his claims or any actions he has taken to resolve these
debts.  He  did  not  provide  evidence  as  to  actions  his  debt  specialist  has  taken.  These
debts are unresolved. (Items 2, 7, 8, 9, 10)
Applicant denied the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.c ($3,923). In his SOR answer
he said he had no recollection of the creditor, and when he reviewed his credit report with
a mortgage broker it did not appear. He did not provide any evidence to show he is not
responsible for this debt. (Items 2, 9, 10)
Applicant denied the medical collection accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.d ($280) 1.e ($252),
and 1.f ($252). During his September 2020 interview with a government investigator, he
was confronted with these debts. He acknowledged the medical debts were likely from
medical  services  he  received  in  2017.  He  believed  the  services  were  covered  by  his
medical insurance at the time, but because he was laid off they likely were not covered.
He believed they should have been. He told the investigator he would rectify the debts.
He stated in his SOR answer that he contacted the creditors and requested they provide
him  the  dates  of  service  and  billing  information.  He  stated  he  had  not  received  any
correspondence from the creditors. He said his debt specialist had also been in contact
with the creditors requesting information about the accounts. Applicant did not provide
any documentary evidence about his efforts to dispute or resolve the debts or anything
from his debt specialists. These debts are unresolved. (Items 2, 8, 9, 10)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  June  2020.  In
response to section 26, which asked if in the past seven years he had failed to file or pay
Federal, state, or other taxes, he answered “no.” It also asked if in the past seven years
he  had  property  foreclosed,  defaulted  on  any  type  of  loan,  had  bills  turned  over  to  a
collection agency or had any account suspended, charged off, or canceled for failure to
pay,  or if  he  was  over  120 days  delinquent on  any debt  not  previously mentioned.  He
stated “no.” The SOR alleged Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his Federal tax lien
1 www.irs.gov
(SOR  ¶  1.a),  and  the  collection  accounts  in  ¶  1.b  (swimming  pool  account)  and  ¶  1.c
($3,923).
During Applicant’s September 2020 background investigation with a government
investigator he stated he had no debts that were in collection in the past seven years. He
did  not  disclose  his  Federal  tax  lien.  In  his  June  2021  answer  to  government
interrogatories  which  asked  if  he  had  any  additional  adverse  or  delinquent  accounts,
including taxes, that he owed, he answered “no.” The SOR alleges his failure to disclose
this derogatory information was deliberate. (Items 3, 7, 8)
In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer,  he  explained  that  he  did  not  disclose  his  tax  debt
because the SCA asked if he failed to file his tax returns. He stated he had filed them, so
his answer of “no” was correct. He further stated: “I did not intend to mislead on my answer
as my tax liability was  removed  by the  [above] mentioned  program.” (Item  2)  Applicant
was referring to the Fresh Start program. (Item 2
During Applicant’s background interview with the government investigator he did
not disclose the swimming pool collection account (SOR ¶ 1.b). When confronted with the
debt he acknowledged it and explained that when he was laid off in 2019 he could not
afford the monthly payments of $500. After not paying for about two months the creditor
contacted him and Applicant requested the loan be extended so he could make up for
missed  payments  and  make  a  future  payment  agreement.  The  creditor  declined
Applicant’s  proposal.  Applicant  said  he  never  heard  from  the  company  again  and
assumed the debt was charged off. He did not attempt to contact the creditor again. He
said he was unaware the debt went to collection. He claimed he forgot about the debt so
he did not disclose it. (Items 2, 7, 8)
Regarding the  debt in SOR  ¶ 1.c, Applicant said  in his SOR answer  he  had no
recollection of it and denied deliberately failing to disclose it. There is no evidence in his
background  interview  that  Applicant  was  confronted  with  this  debt  by  the  investigator.
(Item 2, 7, 8)
Applicant  provided  a  personal  financial  statement  as  part  of  his  answer  to
government interrogatories. Under the section “Debts-list all financial obligations by name
of person/company/firm.” He did not list any payments being made to the IRS. (Item 9)
