As amended, the SOR alleges that: from 1988 to about March 2020, Applicant has
consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to the point of intoxication (SOR ¶ 1.a); in about
October  2014,  he  was  charged  with  intoxicated  endangerment/unattended  child  under
eight  years  old  (SOR  ¶  1.b);  in  November  2018,  he  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol
dependency in partial remission (SOR ¶ 1.c); and in December 2018, he was diagnosed
with alcohol use disorder (SOR ¶ 2.d).
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  of  the  allegations,  corrected
some  timelines,  and  provided  information  in  explanation  and  mitigation.  I  have
incorporated his admissions into my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 52-year-old engineering technician employed by a federal contractor
and is seeking to retain his clearance eligibility. He graduated from high school in 1988,
and  completed  some  technical  courses.  He  has  a  36-year  career  supporting  the  U.S.
Navy in different capacities. After high school, he worked for a federal contractor for 15
years  and  he  has  held  a  position  of  trust  since  2002.  He  has  worked  for  his  current
employer and security clearance sponsor since 2004. (Tr. 15) He feels honored he was
granted clearance eligibility, would like to continue his career supporting the U.S. Navy,
and hopes to retire in the future.
Applicant married in 2010 and divorced in March 2017. He has an 11-year-old son
of  this  marriage.  He  remarried  in  November  2019.  He  and  his  second  wife  share  a
stepson, age, 9, and have a 2-year-old son together. His elder son lives with  the boy’s
mother. (Tr. 16 -17)
Concerning his alcohol consumption,  Applicant testified that from about 1988 to
about  1992,  he  consumed  alcohol,  at  times  in  excess  and  to  the  point  of  intoxication.
From  about  1993  to  about  2008,  he  rarely  consumed  alcohol  and  never  to  excess  or
intoxication.  From  about  2009  to  about  2013,  he  consumed  alcohol  socially,  with  few
times to excess or intoxication. During the period of 2014 to June 2017, Applicant went
through what he described was an extremely rough time in his prior marriage, including
a separation that culminated in divorce. During this period, he consumed alcohol at times
in excess and to the point of intoxication. (SOR answer)
Applicant attended Alcoholic Anonymous (AA) meetings with his first AA sponsor
periodically between 2014 and July 2020. He had some success with lengthy periods of
sustained sobriety. He believes he has learned from his mistakes and has not had any
alcohol since July 2020. (Tr. 18; AE A) He attributes his success abstaining from alcohol
to attending weekly AA meetings and starting his new AA Big Book Step Study  with a
new  sponsor.  His  new  sponsor  has  taken  him  through  the  12  Steps  of  Recovery.  He
considers  himself  a  recovered  alcoholic  and  has  no  intentions  of  consuming  alcohol
again.  He  is  committed  to  making  responsible  decisions  for  himself  and  his  family,
including refraining from the use of alcohol. He stated that he is attending AA meetings
every week.
In October 2014, during his first marriage and prior to his entry into AA, Applicant
attended a family function and had “a few” drinks of alcohol. On his way home, his child
fell sleep in the car and he stopped at a store allegedly to buy food, leaving the child alone
in the car. The police were called and Applicant was arrested and charged with intoxicated
endangerment/unattended child under eight years old. Applicant expressed remorse for
his poor judgment. After the arrest, he attended 12 weeks of alcohol counseling, which
included  weekly  breathalyzer  tests  and  random  urinalysis  screenings,  and  started
attending AA meetings. (Counselor’s letter of October 2014) The State’s Attorney’s Office
dismissed the charge and the state expunged the record. Applicant testified that this is
the only alcohol-related legal action that he has faced.
In November 2018, Applicant was diagnosed  with alcohol dependency in partial
remission, and in December 2018, he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder. Applicant
explained that in November 2018, he started to see a new physician who prescribed six
shots of an alcohol medication to help him maintain sobriety. The new medication was
helpful preventing the cravings or his desire to consume alcohol, but it was expensive at
about $2,900 per injection. Applicant explained the doctor changed the diagnosis so that
his  medical  insurance  would  pay  for  the  injections.  He  received  the  injections  from
December 2018 to June 2019.  (GE 3)
Applicant attributed his success  in abstaining  from  alcohol to  his wife’s support.
She has been proactive on working with him to learn what is going to keep him sober and
keep their relationship in a good spiritual base. He wants to be a good father and husband
for his family. (Tr. 21 – 22)
Applicant submitted an evaluation from his licensed counselor, dated October 7,
2021. Based on some tests she conducted and Applicant’s statement, she opined that it
does not appear that he currently has an alcohol problem. (AE A, attachment 6) He also
submitted eight reference letters from supervisors, friends, and fellow AA members. Their
consensus is that Applicant has demonstrated a desire to achieve sobriety. He regularly
attends  AA,  communicates  with  his sponsor frequently,  and is a  grateful contributor to
AA. He has been willing to incorporate the 12 steps of the AA program into his daily life.
He is considered to be a valued employee who does a great job as a coworker, husband,
father, and friend. He has made great strides over the past few years, and is in a good
place professionally and personally. (AE A, attachments 5a – 5h)
