In  Applicant’s  answers,  she  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  some
explanation.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  57  years  old.  She  recently  married  in  March  2022,  for  the  second
time. She has three adult children from her first marriage. He has worked for her current
defense contractor-employer since 2011. She is a high school graduate. (Tr. 6, 23-27;
GE 1)
The SOR alleged Applicant was charged with driving  while intoxicated (DWI) on
three occasions: February 2018, February 2014, and December 2004. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c)
Her  DWI arrests  were  also alleged as  criminal conduct  under Guideline  J in the SOR.
(SOR ¶ 2.a)
Applicant completed her 2018 security clearance in January 2018. Her February
2018  DWI  charge  occurred  after  she  spent  the  evening  at  a  girlfriend’s  house  and
consumed  “quite  a  few”  glasses  of  wine.  Several  circumstances  were  going  on  in  her
life at the time that caused her emotional strain. He mother had recently passed away
and she and her then-boyfriend (current husband) were caring for his dementia-stricken
mother. She testified that she “just got drunk” that evening. She decided to drive home
from  the  friend’s  house  and  she  was  stopped  by  law  enforcement.  Court  records
indicate that her blood alcohol content (BAC) was .15, almost twice the legal limit of .08.
She  was arrested  and  spent the  night in jail. She  ultimately  pleaded  guilty  and  received
a   sentence   that  included   probation,  installation   of   an   interlock  device  on   her  car,  and
required  attendance  at  an  alcohol counseling  course.  The  course  required  three-times-
a-week  attendance,  but  she   could   not  recall   the   duration   of  it.   She   also  attended
Alcoholics Anonymous  (AA) during  this time. The  record is unclear if  her AA  attendance
was  mandated   by   the   court.  She   was  given   the   opportunity   post-hearing   to   provide
documentation   about  her  counseling,  which  she   claimed   to   have,  but  she   failed   to   do
so.  (Tr. 27-28, 30-36; GE 3, 5)
Applicant’s February 2014 DWI charge occurred after she spent the evening at a
friend’s house and claimed she drank two beers before driving home. She was stopped
by  law  enforcement  for  having  a  non-operable  license-plate  light.  She  performed  field
sobriety  tests  but  refused  breath  and  blood  testing.  She  was  charged  with  DWI.  The
final disposition was a reduction of the charge to obstruction of a highway. Her sentence
included 14 months of community service and a fine. (Tr. 43-45; GE 3-4)
Applicant’s July 2004  DWI  charge  occurred  when  she  decided  to  drive  from  her
home  to  get  some  food  after  she  had  been  drinking  alcohol.  It  was  raining  during  her
drive and she lost control of her car when rounding a corner. She was alone in the car.
Applicant does not recall the details of what happened next after the accident. She was
hospitalized and treated. Later, she became aware that she was charged with DWI. The
charge  was  ultimately dismissed,  but  the  record  does  not  explain  why.  In  her  security
clearance  applications,  she  indicated  she  sought  alcohol  treatment  or  counseling  for
one month in 2004. She provided no further details about this counseling. (GE 1-4)
Applicant  testified  that  she  continues  to  drink  alcohol  to  include  drinking  to
intoxication  four  to  six  times  a  month.  She  claimed  she  last  drank  to  intoxication  in
December 2021. She also claimed that she no longer drives after drinking alcohol and
she  has  not  done  so  since  her 2018  arrest.  She  believes  that  she  is an  alcoholic,  but
she also believes  she does not  have  a  current  alcohol problem.  She  last  attended AA
over  a  year  ago.  She  has  not  attended  any  other  alcohol  treatment  or  counseling
program  since  her  court-ordered  counseling  after  her  2018  arrest.  She  realizes  she
made mistakes and she is sorry for them. (Tr. 37-41, 47)
