Applicant is a 32-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  or  a  predecessor  company  on  the  same  defense  contract  since
about  July 2015.  He  served  on  active  duty in  the  U.S.  military from  2010  until he  was
discharged with an under other than honorable conditions discharge in 2015. He seeks
to retain a security clearance, which he has held, with the exception of the short period
between his discharge and his civilian employment, since his time in the military. He is
attending  college  in  pursuit  of  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  is  divorced  without  children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 11-13, 23, 30-31, 50, 60; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE B,
D)
Applicant was stationed  in Germany  from  2010  to  2012. In  about the  summer of
2011, he  had  sexual intercourse on  two  occasions with  a  dependent daughter (AB) of  a
U.S.  service  member.   AB   was  15   or  had   just   turned   16   at  the   time.  Applicant  told
investigators that she  was 15  years old, but  she  told  him  that she  was 19  years old.  He
stated  that  they  remained  friends  after he  found  out  how  old she  was, but they  did not
engage  in any  additional sexual activity. AB  later told military  investigators that she  was
16 years old at the  time of  the sexual encounters.1 (Tr. at 44-46, 51; GE 3)
Applicant had sexual relations in about 2012 with a female who was about 18 or
older. She introduced him on Facebook to her friend (XY) who was 15 years old at the
time. She turned 16 in early August 2013. Applicant stated that because the first woman
was of age, he assumed XY was about the same age. XY lived in the Republic of Korea
(Korea)  as  the  dependent  daughter  of  a  civilian  employee  of  the  U.S.  military.  From
about January 2013 to March 2013, Applicant and XY exchanged naked photographs of
each  other.  She  also  sent  him  a  video  of  her  masturbating.  (Tr.  at  15-17,  31-34;
Applicant’s response  to  SOR; GE  3) The photographs of XY and the video constituted
child  pornography  under  18  U.S.C.  §§  2252  and  2256.  Under  the  statutes,  a  child  or
“minor” means any person under the age of 18 years.
Applicant  transferred  to  Korea  in  March  2013.  He  met  XY  and  her  friend  at  a
concert in June 2013. He stated that entrants to the concert had to be 19 years old. XY
said she was 18. Her friend said that XY was not 18, and XY quickly said she was 17.
Applicant and XY met the following weekend in late June 2013, and ended up in a hotel,
where  they  performed  oral  sex  on  each  other  and  had  sexual  intercourse.  Applicant
took a picture of her performing oral sex on him. By doing so, Applicant produced child
pornography  in  violation  of  18  U.S.C.  §§  2251  and  2252  and  the  Uniform  Code  of
Military Justice (UCMJ). (Tr. at 13-17, 33-35;  Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE  3)  The
fact  that  he  might  have  thought  that  she  was  17  is not a  defense because  the  statute
covers minors 17 years of age and younger.
1  This conduct was not alleged in the SOR. Any matter that was not alleged in the SOR will not be used
for disqualification purposes. It may be considered in assessing Applicant’s credibility, in judging whether
he  has  an  affirmative  defense,  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  and  in  the  whole-person
analysis.
Applicant  and  XY  engaged  in  a  series  of  graphic  sexual  messages  in  July  and
early  August,  before  XY  turned  16.  At  one  point  he  wrote:  “I  wanted  you!!  You  were
sexy.  I  don’t  care  how  old  you  are,”  and  “You  are  a  complete  exception.  Even  if  you
were 13, I’d seriously have to consider still doing you.” You’re just to[o] sexy!” (Tr. at 18,
37; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant met XY in a club in late July or August 2013, when XY was 15 or had
recently turned 16. XY performed oral sex on him behind a pillar on the dance floor, and
they  had  sexual  intercourse  in  the  ladies’  room.  Applicant  told  investigators  that  it
occurred  in  July  2013,  and  that  he  still  thought  she  was  17  at  the  time.  He  told
investigators that he found out XY’s age when her friend told him in late August or early
September that XY “was turning 16.” XY later told investigators that the incident at the
club happened in August 2013 after she turned 16. He testified that he knew XY was 16
years  old  during  the  incident  at  the  club.  (Tr.  at  37-40,  49-52;  Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; GE 3)
The  only  evidence  that the  sexual activity  at the  club  occurred  when  XY  was 15
is  Applicant’s  statement  to   investigators  that   it  was  “late   July,  I  believe.”  (GE  3)  I  am
unable  to   find   by   substantial   evidence   that   XY   was  15   during   the   second   incident.
However,  Applicant  knew   XY   was  turning   16.  If  the   sex   occurred   after  XY   turned   16,
then  Applicant  had  to  know  she  was 16  years old  at  the  time,  and  his statement  to  the
investigators that he  did not know her age and still thought she was 17 was false.
Applicant had a married female first cousin who lived in the United States.  They
engaged  in  a series  of  graphic sexual messages  from about  June 2013  to September
2013. They discussed sending naked pictures to each other. Applicant sent his cousin
the  picture  of  XY  performing  oral  sex  on  him.  When  he  did  so,  he  transmitted  child
pornography into the United States in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 2252 and 2260. (Tr. at
17-19, 40; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant stated that he was unaware of his cousin’s existence until around 2010,
when he was almost 20 years old and she was almost 28 years old. He stated that “the
confusions of adolescence” contributed to his conduct with his cousin. Applicant was 22
years old when he sent his cousin the picture of  XY. He has not had any contact with
his  cousin  since  he  came  under  investigation  by  the  military.  (Tr.  at  18-19,  40-42;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 3)
A  military criminal  investigation  was  initiated  in  September  2013  after  a  service
member  reported  that  Applicant  had  a  sexual  relationship  with  XY  when  she  was  15
years old. The investigators reviewed Applicant’s text messages. XY never revealed her
true age in the messages. On different occasions, she said she was 18, 17, and 16. (GE
3)
In  a  September  2013  message  to  his  cousin,  Applicant  stated  that  since  he
turned 18, he had sexual intercourse with two 15-year-olds and was masturbated by a
13-year-old.  In the  same message,  he  self-identified himself  as a pedophile.  Applicant
testified  that  he  did  not  know  why  he  wrote  those  messages.  He  stated  that  it  could
have been a typo or he added it in for shock value. He thinks that he was “plain lying to
[his cousin].” He relayed in messages to AB and XY that he could only get in trouble if
either of them told military investigators that he knew they were 15 years old when he
had sexual intercourse with them. (Tr. at 36; GE 3)
On  Applicant’s  iPad  or laptop  computer, the  investigators found  a  picture  of  XY
performing oral sex on him, a picture of XY performing a sex act on herself, and a video
of her performing the same sex act. Applicant was in possession of child pornography in
violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 2252. He told investigators that it did not click in his mind that
he had child pornography, and if he had remembered, he would have deleted the files.
(GE 3)
Applicant  was  issued  a  military  protective  order  (MPO),  also  known  as  a  no
contact  order,  directing  him  to  have  no  contact  with  XY.  He  violated  that  order  on
several  occasions.  He  stated  in  his  SOR  response  that  he  communicated  with  XY  via
messenger app, when he asked her what was going on with the case. He testified that
he  did not intend  to  violate  the  order, and  he  “messaged  her just  to  tell  her that [they]
had a No Contact Order.” In other words, he contacted her to tell her that they could not
contact each other. (Tr. at 20-21, 47-49; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant was charged with multiple offenses under the UCMJ, including violating
the  MPO;  committing  sexual  acts  and  lewd  acts  on  a  child  under  the  age  of  16;
producing,  distributing,  and  possessing  child  pornography  involving  XY;  indecent
language to XY, a child under the age of 16; indecent exposure to XY in the nightclub;
and indecent language to his cousin. (Tr. at 13-14; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant was arraigned on the charges before a general court-martial. He stated
that  XY  refused  to  testify  against  him  and  they  are  still  friends.  The  charges  were
dismissed  in  January  2015  when  Applicant  accepted  an  under  other  than  honorable
conditions  discharge  in  lieu  of  trial  by  court-martial.  The  General  Court-Martial  Order
(GCMO)  promulgating  those  actions  was  issued  in  April  2015.  The  SOR  incorrectly
alleged that Applicant was charged on the date of the GCMO. (Tr. at 13-16, 20, 43, 44;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE B)
Applicant  asserted  that  he  did  not  know  XY’s  true  age,  and  he  would  not  have
committed the sexual acts with her if he knew that she was under 16. He stated that the
age of consent in the military is 16, it was 13 at the time in Korea, and he thought she
was 17 or 18. He stated that he shared the sexually explicit picture of XY with his cousin
before  he  learned  she  was  15.  However,  federal  child  pornography  statutes  cover
children 17 years and younger, and Applicant admitted that he thought that she was 17.
(Tr. at 13-15, 50-52; Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant stated that alcohol contributed to some of the allegations. He stopped
drinking while  he  was  awaiting the  resolution of  the military charges.  He  asserted  that
he has learned from the experience, he has matured, and there has been no additional
misconduct since the military. (Tr. at 26-29, 42-43; Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant  was  evaluated  at  his  own  expense  by  a  licensed  psychologist  in
September 2022. Applicant described his military charges as follows:
I  submitted   a   Chapter   4   during   the   hearing   which  is  a   request  to   get  a
discharge  rather than  a  court martial.  The  case  had  been  going  on  for 20
months. I had  to  switch  lawyers. I had  like  20  minor charges against  me.
Most  were  dropped   or   recommended   to   be   dropped.  I  had   won   the   first
case  because  she  wouldn’t testify  and  it was  proven  that I didn’t know  she
was a  minor, but after I won  that case, they  piled  a  bunch  of other charges
on  me  so  my  lawyers advised  me  to  just  get out because  they  felt the  JAG
would keep  coming  after me  until they  won. My  lawyer said get out  before
I become a sex offender or something like that.
Applicant  never  told  the  psychologist  that  he  had  sex  with  a  15-year-old  girl
under similar circumstances about a year before XY. The psychologist determined that
Applicant did not have a mental health condition. He concluded:
I  did  not  find   [Applicant]   to   suffer  from   any   of   the   sexual  dysfunctions  or
paraphilic disorders described  in  the  DSM-5-TR  [Diagnostic and  Statistical
Manual   of  Mental   Disorders,  Fifth   Edition].   Likewise,  I  did   not  find   any   of
the  indicators in  [Applicant]  that are seen  in  people at high  risk for  sexual
offending.  I  do   not  believe,  based   on   his   personality   disposition   and
behavioral history,  that  [Applicant]   would  have   engaged   in  sexual activity
with   the   young   lady   in  2013   had   he   known  she   was  underage.  He  is not
considered   to   be   at  heightened   risk  for  criminal   sexual  behavior  in  the
future.  (AE G)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance and strong moral character. He is praised for his reliability, dependability,
trustworthiness,  loyalty  to  the  United  States,  honesty,  work  ethic,  intelligence,  and
responsibility. His girlfriend wrote, “Within the first month of our relationship, [Applicant]
had an honest conversation with me and told me about the unfortunate situation he had
in Korea. I knew from the start just from his persona that he was wronged.” (AE C)
