Applicant is  45  years old  and  married  with  two  children. He  has  a  bachelor’s degree
and  a  master’s degree. He retired  from the Navy in 2019 as a lieutenant commander (O-
4).  Applicant  is   employed   by   a   defense   contractor  as  a   program   manager   and   is
attempting   to   retain   a   security   clearance   in   relation   to   his  employment.   (Government
Exhibit 1 at Sections  12,  13A, 15, and  17; Applicant Exhibits J, K, L, and N.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions)
The DoD CAF alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is not eligible
for access because he has an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair
his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness.
Paragraph 2 (Guideline D: Sexual Behavior)
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible
for clearance because he has engaged in sexual behavior that involves a criminal offense;
reflects  a  lack  of  judgment  or  discretion;  or  may  subject  Applicant  to  undue  influence,
coercion, exploitation, or duress.
The  following  discussion  will  be  primarily  chronological.  During  a  period  of
psychological treatment discussed below Applicant was engaging in several extra-marital
affairs and other addictive sexual activities.
The   Government   stated   at   the   hearing   that   they   were   not  proceeding   on   SOR
allegations   1.a,  1.b,  and   1.d.   Those   allegations  solely   concerned   mental  health
counseling  obtained  by  Applicant.  Paragraph  27  of  the  AG,  which sets forth  the  concern
under  this  guideline,  states  in   pertinent  part,  “No   negative   inference   concerning   the
standards in this guideline  may  be  raised  solely  on  the  basis of mental health  counseling.”
Based on  the  Government’s representation, SOR allegations 1.a, 1.b, and  1.d  are found
for Applicant.  Allegation  2.b  is hereby  amended  to  conform  with  the  above  findings. It  now
reads, “That information set forth in subparagraph 1.c, above.” (Tr. 8.)
Applicant had a series of sexual relationships with women who were not his wife
starting in 2016 and ending in 2018. Three of these were “one-night stands.” A fourth was
a  long-term  emotional and  sexual  relationship  that  lasted  several  months.  All  of  these
incidents occurred while Applicant was on active duty with the Navy. He has stated that
he has not engaged in extra-marital sexual activity since 2018.
Applicant has also stated that he has a long-term addiction to pornography, which
he  is  unable,  or  unwilling,  to  stop.  As  described  further  below,  he  has  been  receiving
therapy for these issues since 2017. He also  participates in a 12-step program for sex
addiction.
Government Exhibit 2 consists of Applicant’s response  to  DOHA interrogatories.
Specifically,  the  exhibit  includes  the  Reports  of  Investigation  (ROI)  of  Applicant’s
interviews with authorized investigators from the Office of Personnel Management. Those
interviews will be discussed as appropriate.
Applicant’s  first  affair   began   in   approximately   October  2016   and   continued   into
2017.   He  became   emotionally   as  well   as   sexually   involved   with   this  person.  They
corresponded   on   social  media,  and   met  several  times  for  sex.   He  described   this
relationship  in an  ROI dated  April 5, 2019. (Government Exhibit 2  at 10; Tr. 36-37, 57-
58.)
Applicant began voluntary psychiatric and psychological treatment while he was
on active duty in the Navy on March 21, 2017. In his initial intake interview he stated a
desire to receive treatment for anxiety and depression symptoms. He also stated that he
had  issues  with  pornography.  He  was  diagnosed  with  “Adjustment  Disorder  with
depressed  mood.”  There  is  no  indication  that  he  discussed  his  extra-marital  sexual
relationship with his therapist at this time. (Government Exhibit 7 at 1-11.)
Applicant’s second affair involved a single incident with a woman he met on work-
related travel in 2017. He stated in his testimony that there was an additional one-night
incident with a different woman, also in 2017. This incident was not otherwise revealed
until the hearing. (Government Exhibit 2 at 11; Tr. 37-38.)
Applicant joined a 12-step program (Sex Addicts Anonymous) in December 2017.
His  sponsor  from  this  program  provided  a  letter  in  support  of  Applicant.  (Government
Exhibit 2 at 10-12; Applicant Exhibit E at 2; Tr. 30-31.)
Applicant’s fourth sexual liaison was a one-night stand with a different woman that
occurred  sometime  in  2018.  He  further  testified  that  he  contacted  his  12-step  group
sponsor the day after this happened. (Government Exhibit 2 at 11; Tr. 37-38, 45-46.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  realized  his  extra-marital  sexual  activity  amounted  to
commission of the offense of Adultery under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).
He did not tell his command or security officer about his conduct. (Tr. 46.)
The next note in the Navy medical file is from March 22, 2018. The note includes
a diagnosis that Applicant continues to suffer from “Adjustment Disorder with depressed
mood.”  Pertinent  excerpts from  the  Progress Notes are  as follows,  “Patient  [Applicant]
reported that he had a period of almost one month with no social media. During that time
however, patient appears to have reverted back to many his old habits (i.e. drinking more
than agreed-upon;  talking to  old  flings). Patient  eventually re-downloaded many of  the
social  media  apps.”  There  is  no  indication  that  he  discussed  his  extra-marital  sexual
relationships with his therapist at this time. (Government Exhibit 7 at 13-18.)
Applicant filled out an e-QIP on April 5, 2018. (Government Exhibit 1.) Section 21
of  the  questionnaire  asked  Applicant  about  mental  health  treatment.  Under  “Optional
Comment” he stated, “I have sought out and continue to receive medical mental health
treatment  and  counseling  for  Anxiety,  depression,  and  PTSD  symptoms  relating  to
traumatic experiences growing up in a region with high rates of violent crime, as well as
deployment to Iraq in 2013-2014.”
The  next  note  in  the  Navy  medical  file  is  from  May  29,  2018.  The  diagnosis
continues  to  be  “Adjustment  Disorder with  depressed mood.”  It appears that Applicant
has told his providers of his extra-marital affairs by this time. Pertinent excerpt from the
Progress Notes are as follows:
Patient reported  that he  failed  with  his goal of nonsexual behavior outside
of  his work responsibilities (while  on  travel). Patient reported  that he called
his  sponsor  after  the   behavior.  Patient   stated   that   he   has  started   to
recognize  how  “addicted” he  is to  sexual pursuits. Patient reported  that  his
sponsor taught him  about the  3  circles of  addiction. Patient talked  about the
correlation   between   his  drinking   behavior  and   his  acting   out  sexually.
Patient  talked   about  the   benefits  of   continuing   to   go   to   SA   [Sex   Addicts
Anonymous] meetings. (Government Exhibit 7 at 19-24;  Tr. 39.)
Applicant was interviewed on June 5, 2018. The ROI stated, “There is nothing in
the Subject’s background that can be used against him for blackmail or coercion.” There
is no mention in the ROI that Applicant discussed his history of sexual activity outside of
marriage or his problems with pornography with the investigator. (Government Exhibit 2
at 3-8.)
The  next  note  in  the  Navy  medical  file  is  from  August  24,  2018.  This  meeting
appears  to  have  been  precipitated  by  his  two  primary  providers  (Dr.  F  and  Dr.  R).
Pertinent excerpts from the Note are as follows:
Patient  informed that he  was  being rescreened for his security clearance
(TS/SCI) and that different investigators had approached both of us about
his  treatment.  It  was  discussed  with  the  patient  that  we  both  had
reservations about not making the proper authorities aware of his apparent
addiction to sexually related behavior/environments. Patient was informed
that both providers would be making comments on his reevaluation of his
security  clearance  in  regards  to  his  treatment  of  his  sexually  related
behavior.
Patient  has  been  compliant  with  all  treatment  recommendations  to  date.
Patient  has  been  significantly  involved  in  the  SA  community  and  has  a
sponsor that  he  checks  in  with  regularly.  Patient  routinely meets  with  his
pastor, attends therapy and is managed with medication by Psychiatry for
his sexual addiction. (Government Exhibit 7 at 25.)
Applicant was asked by me whether he told his command or security officer that
his therapists were going to notify Federal investigators of his sex addiction. He stated, “I
did not. And, truth be told, when I was at that particular Command, I was only operating
at a Secret Clearance. I did not even know who the FSO [Facility Security Officer] was. I
think my intent was just to be honest with the background investigation.” (Tr. 56-57.)
The next note in the Navy medical file is from September 21, 2018. The diagnosis
changed at this point to be “Other Sexual Disorders, Sex Addiction.” Pertinent excerpts
from the Progress Notes are as follows, “Patient and therapist talked about his impulsive
sexual behavior. Patient talked about the concept of seeing his addiction as ‘an enemy’
and how he needed to approach like ‘a battle.’ Patient talked about the importance of not
making excuses for his behavior or why he has not made more progress with his 12-step
SA program.” (Government Exhibit 7 at 27-32.)
The next note in the Navy medical file is from December 13, 2018. Applicant had
a change in providers at this time. The diagnosis changed at this point to “Generalized
Anxiety Disorder and Dysthymic Disorder.” Pertinent excerpts from the Intake Notes are
as follows:
Overuse   of   pornography   &   sexual  behavior  incompatible   with   personal
ethics. Patient believes that his struggles with  pornography  are related, as
alcohol  is,  to   his  proclivity   to   “distract   myself”  from   personal  discomfort.
Believes he  was exposed  early  in life  to  pornography, that it was normalized
by  other men, and  believes that it has been  destructive  for him  in that it often
insidiously  takes up  greater amounts of time  than  he  plans. Further,  it has
invited  his actual acting  out (consensual extramarital sex) with  women  he
meets either while  traveling  or through  Tinder/online  “hook-up” sites. Has
wanted to stop watching porn and couldn’t control his use of it over time (up
to several hours per day in more remote hx [history]). Seems to evaluate
women  physically  (my  wife  is  really  beautiful,  but  this  other  woman  was
beautiful  too)  and  sees  porn  as  primarily  a  problem  for  men  (i.e.  lack  of
empathy for the women involved).
He struggles with monogamy (even w/in the past year has had a 6 month
affair and can’t stop “checking out what’s on Tinder”) as well and feels guilty
about  his  behavior.  Says  wife  is  not  OK  with  him  having  extramarital
sex/relationships, that she knows about “some” of this activity, and that she
is willing to stay with him “as long as she believes I’m working on it.”
Personal inadequacy  and  career disappointments:  Pt got passed  over twice
for CDR, says “I got derailed,” and  he’ll  be  retiring  after this tour at 20  years.
.  .   .   He   feels  left   out   and   left  behind,   as  his  friends  are  “SEALS   and
astronauts.” He feels profoundly   inadequate,  like   a  failure  personally  and
professionally.  He  admits  he   has  little  insight  about  how   this,  along   with
early   attachment  issues,  may   contribute   to  his psychiatric  symptoms  and
dysfunctional behavior. (Government Exhibit 7 at 33-42;  Tr. 39-40.)
Applicant and his wife deny that he had a six-month affair in the 2017/2018-time
frame with yet another woman. (Applicant Exhibit R; Tr. 38-40.)
As stated, Applicant was interviewed by a DoD investigator on April 5, 2019. The
investigator reported in pertinent part:
Subject   was  told   that   the   initial  complaint   for  medical   and   psychiatric
treatment  was  overuse   of  porn  and   sexual   behavior  incompatible  with
personal ethics. The  provider does not trust Subject’s behavior due  to  his
impulsive   sexual  behavior  and   feels   the   condition   may   impair   Subject’s
judgment  and   reliability.  Subject   is  treated/counseled   for  this  behavior.
Subject feels the  provider may  feel that way  because  Subject had an  affair
and   considers  himself  a   sex   addict.  Subject  provided   Dr.  [R]  may   be
concerned  about  Subject being  blackmailed  because  of the  behavior which
he  struggled  with  outside  of  his marriage  with  meeting  other women  which
started  two  years ago. Subject is not proud  of  it and  got  the  help himself
when  he  started  this behavior two  years ago.  (Government Exhibit 2  at 10.)
The ROI continued:
Subject does agree with his judgment and reliability is not optimal and that
he  engaged  in  extramarital  sexual  activity  when  he  travels  which  was
discussed  earlier  in  the  interview.  Subject  feels  that  he  agrees  with  the
provider stating that his impulsive sexual behavior and feels his condition
may  impact Subject’s judgment and  reliability on  his personal matters but
has no  effect on his professional life. (Government Exhibit 2 at 12.)
The last note in the Navy medical file is from April 17, 2019. The diagnosis
changed  to  “Other  Sexual  Disorders,  Sex  Addiction  and  Narcissistic  Traits.”
Pertinent excerpts from the Progress Notes are as follows:
SA Meetings: multiple times per week (tele-meeting by phone or in-person.)
. . . Patient stated that he is due to get his one-month chip soon. Patient
talked about his frustration with his background investigation. Patient talked
about boundaries at work since finding out that 2 women have now blocked
him  on  social  media.  Patient  talked  about  his  relationship  with  his  wife.
(Government Exhibit 7 at 43-48.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  received  counseling  from  his  mental  health  medical
providers concerning his conduct with co-workers discussed immediately above. He was
not counseled by his command. (Tr. 42-45.)
Applicant  testified that he believed  that he has  or did have  Generalized  Anxiety
Disorder and Depression as described by his  Navy providers above.  He further stated
that he believed the conditions are controlled  by psychiatric treatment and medication.
(Tr. 25.)
As  noted,  Applicant  retired  from  the  Navy  in  2019.  He  then  began  receiving
treatment from a Dr. J at the VA starting in November 2019. The Progress Notes from the
VA are Government Exhibit 8. They begin on June 5, 2020.
The Progress Note of September 11, 2020, stated in part, “He [Applicant] reported
relapse on his sexual compulsion maybe 4 times in two weeks.” (Government Exhibit 8
at 7.)
Applicant testified  that the  above  probably  referred  to  his looking  at pornography.
He also conceded  that it might have  been  his conduct in “checking” women  out on  social
media. (Tr. 41-42.)
The same Progress Note also stated under “Assessment/Plan,” “After 3 months of
no  compulsive  sexual behavior he  relapsed acouple  [sic] of  weeks  ago.” (Government
Exhibit 8 at 10.)
Applicant testified that the above incident involved pornography. The date of the
Note  is  stated  incorrectly  as,  “June  5,  2021,”  in  the  question  asked  by  Department
Counsel. (Tr. 40-41.)
Applicant and  his wife  began  couple’s  therapy  with  Dr.  M  in  January  2021.  The
therapy was for “Process Addiction/Sex Addiction.” He began individual therapy in August
2021. Dr. M provided a letter dated February 8, 2022. (Applicant Exhibit P.) The provider
wrote  that both  Applicant and  his  wife  were cooperative  in the  process. The  letter goes
on  to  state, “Both  [Applicant and  his wife] have  made  progress and  there has been  better
communication  and  less conflict in the  relationship. [Applicant]  has  also made  progress
with   his  individual  treatment  and   been   able   to   decrease   and   eventually   eliminate   the
behaviors for which he was seeking help.”
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  DoD  psychiatric  consultant  (Dr.  S)  on  May  10,
2021. His report is Government Exhibit 5. Applicant’s history as related by him to Dr. S
basically tracks with other documents in the record and is not repeated here. Dr. S also
spoke to three coworkers of Applicant and one of his current mental health providers.
Mr.  H  was  interviewed   by   Dr.  S.  He   is  a   supervisor  of  Applicant   for  Applicant’s
employer. He stated  that Applicant is a  “diligent worker who  is a   highly   engaged  team
player.”   He  further stated   that he   does not believe   Applicant has any   mental health   or
substance  abuse  issues. Finally, he  stated,  “Source [Mr. H] believes that the  Subject’s
judgment,   reliability,  and   trustworthiness  are  intact  and   highly   recommends  him.”
(Government Exhibit 5  at 5.)
A second supervisor of Applicant, Mr. M, was also interviewed. He is the program
manager  for a military program that works with Applicant’s employer. Mr. M  had  a  different
view  of  Applicant,  stating  that he  would often react emotionally  when  receiving  feedback
or  direction.  He   also   discussed   a   particular  issue   he   had   concerning   Applicant’s
interactions with  Ms. V, further discussed  below. Mr. M  felt that  Applicant displayed  poor
judgment in his interactions  with  Ms. V  and  Mr. M  about the  issue.  Mr. M  concluded  by
saying:
Source [Mr. M] stated  that he  has concerns about Subject’s judgment based
upon   the   incidents  discussed.   Source  denied   any   concern  about  the
Subject’s  reliability. Source believes that   the  Subject   is mostly  honest but
will   omit  details  or   information.  Source   was  initially   ambivalent   about
recommending   the   Subject   but   eventually  confirmed   that   he   would
recommend   him   if   there  were  an   abundant  amount  of   oversights  and
controls  in  place   to   scaffold  the   Subject.  Source  stated   that  the   Subject
currently   works  with   several  constraints  and   boundaries  within  his  role
which were placed  there out of necessity. (Government Exhibit 5 at 5-6.)
Ms.  V   is  the   security   officer  for  a   military   program   that  works  with   Applicant’s
employer. She  is not his company’s security officer. She  discussed  a  particular incident
with   Applicant  that   she   felt  was  not  handled   properly   by   Applicant.   The   incident   is  not
related  to  the  mental health  or  sexual misconduct  issues  discussed  in this  decision,  but
she   and   Mr.  M   believe   it   showed   poor  judgment  on   Applicant’s   part  on   that  particular
occasion. Speaking in  general about Applicant Ms. V stated:
Source credited the Subject with making improvements with coaching and
appropriate  changes  when  corrected.  However,  Source  also  expressed
concerns about the  Subject’s emotional stability  and  believes that there is
an  ever-present possibility that he may react aggressively to  situations that
are  not  favorable  to   him.  Source   confirmed   that  there   were  interpersonal
issues between  him  and  other workers but  would  not  go  into  further  detail.
Source  deferred  on  speaking  to  the  Subject’s ability  to  have  good  judgment
as  she   has   significant   reservations.  Source   denied   any   concerns  about
Subject’s reliability. Subject deferred speaking about the Subject’s honesty
and   trustworthiness  due   to   omissions.  Source  stated   that  she   would
recommend  him  with  similar caveats as  Mr. [M].  (Government  Exhibit 5  at
6.)
Applicant denied that he had ever acted in the way described by Mr. M and Ms. V
in  their  interviews  with  Dr.  S.  He  believes  that  their  incorrect  statements  are  due  to
personality conflicts between the three of them. (Tr. 49-52.)
Dr. S also talked to Dr. C, who is Applicant’s psychologist. She has been treating
Applicant since January 2021. She stated:
Subject  has weekly  sessions and  has engaged  in  EMDR  [Eye  Movement
Desensitization  and  Reprocessing  Therapy]  and  is currently  working  on  a
book on  sex  addiction.  Source  reported  that the  Subject presented  with  a
variety   of  psychological  and   behavioral  issues  that  were  rooted   in  his
upbringing. Subject seeks validation  and  is susceptible to  anything  that he
perceives  as  rejection.  Subject  may   respond   to   perceived   rejection   with
anger,  anxiety,  or  mood   lability.  Subject  may   act  out  or  become
confrontational  with   those   involved   in  such   instances  as  well.  Source
confirmed  that  the  Subject  may  also seek validation  from  other  pursuits or
people.   Source  denied   that  [sic]  any   knowledge   of   affairs  beyond   those
already  discussed  by  the  Subject.  Subject has shown  improvement through
the  EMDR  and  is  more insightful  towards his triggers but is vulnerable to
personalizing   and   emotional  reasoning.  Source  believes  that  the   Subject
has good  judgment in  regard to  national security  work and  stated  that his
issues  with   judgment   are  mainly   in  regard  to   his  personal  life.  Source
believes that the  Subject is reliable and  is a  trustworthy  and  moral individual.
(Government Exhibit 5  at 6-7;  Tr. 54-55.)
Dr. S  gave  the  following  Diagnostic Impression, Diagnosis,  and  Prognosis on  page
7 of  Government Exhibit 5. The Diagnostic Impression is as follows:
The   Subject   was  referred   for  evaluation   to   determine   if   his  previous
diagnoses  or behaviors impair  his judgment,  reliability, or trustworthiness.
The  Subject  has been previously  diagnosed with  depressive  disorders and
self-reported  anxiety  in  the  context of  performance  or perception  of others.
While the  Evaluator  concurs that the  Subject  has suffered  from  both  kinds
of   symptoms  in   the   past,   the   symptoms   are  better  explained   through   the
lens  of  a   personality   disorder.  The   Subject’s  internal  drive   for  validation,
negative  self-image,  and  affective  sensitivity  appear  to  have  been
developed over the course of his childhood and adolescence and have been
present  across  his  lifespan.  The  majority  of  the  maladaptive  issues
previously discussed  were  the  direct  result of  him experiencing rejection,
needing  validation,  being  affectively  triggered  by  external  events,  or
questioning his identity/purpose in life. The behavioral expression of these
issues were the affairs, increased use of pornography, and increased use
of alcohol. The diagnoses below attempt to best capture his expression of
psychological issues over the reported timeline.
The Diagnoses are, “Other specified personality disorder, mixed cluster B traits;
History of social exclusion or rejection; and History of parent/child relational problem.”
Dr. S provided the following Prognosis:
The  presence  of a  personality  disorder with  these  traits  will inherently  place
the  Subject at a varying amount of risk in terms of judgment, reliability, and
trustworthiness.  That   level  of   risk  will  depend   heavily   upon   the   Subject’s
perception   of  stability  and   self-worth   across  personal  and   professional
areas and   his ability   to   manage   his emotional reactivity. When   balanced,
the  Subject  with  likely  perform  well. When  unbalanced, the  Subject  will likely
express  the   aggressive/labile   traits  mentioned   by   his  references.  The
events  previously   discussed   and   the   collateral  information   gathered   over
the  course of  this evaluation  show  explicit examples of how  his emotional
reactivity  and  perception  of  rejection  can  result in impulsive  behaviors and
unfavorable decisions. Credit should  be  given  to  the  Subject  who  responded
to  his previous affairs by  initiating  counseling, being  dedicated  to  treatment,
and  searching  for  ways to  avoid future unfaithfulness. This illustrates that
the   Subject   is  willing   to   adapt  and   seek  answers  to   his  problem   with   the
correct motivation, boundaries, and  consequences. However, it should be
underscored  that such  adjustments occurred  after he  acted  in  ways, that  he
admits,  were  against   his  values,  impulsive,  and   had   the   possibility   of
causing  irreparable  damage  to  his family. It  should  also  be  noted  that the
Subject   had   already   been   engaged   in  both   counseling   and   medication
treatment when  the  affairs occurred. While  his last  indiscretion  occurred  in
2018,  he   still   struggles  with   emotional  reactivity   as  evidenced   by   the
testimony   provided   by   his  therapist  and   references.   The   feedback  from
those   who   have   regular  contact  with   him   in   a   professional  environment
should   be   taken   very  seriously   as  positive   impression   management  is
always a factor during cross-sectional evaluations.
A Progress Note dated January 11, 2022, from the VA stated that Applicant had
attended a program aimed at reducing his compulsive sexual behaviors. The Progress
Note also stated, “He [Applicant] reported relapsing on sexual compulsive behavior but
not drinking.” (Government Exhibits 6 and 8 at 6.)
10
The last VA Progress Note available is from February 16, 2022. Applicant told his
therapist that there had been a “slight exacerbation of his sexual obsession. But he has
not acted on them.” (Government Exhibit 8 at 1.)
Applicant Exhibit Q is a letter February 28, 2022, from Dr. J about Applicant. In
part the letter says, “He [Applicant] is taking his medications and comes to his follow-up
appointments  regularly.  He  has  been  seeking  help  and  has  agreed  with  different
treatment modalities and he has been noticing an improvement in his symptoms.”
Dr. J submitted an additional letter dated June 3, 2022. The letter states in pertinent
part, “He [Applicant] is compliant with the treatment plan. He is taking his medications and
he comes to his follow-up appointments regularly. He is very motivated to seek help and
has agreed with different treatment options including medication, different psychotherapy
modalities, and  rehab programs. Based on his report and my evaluation it  sounds  like
that [sic] he is improving.” (Applicant Exhibit U.)
Applicant testified that he is following Dr. J’s advice “to the letter.” Applicant also
testified that he believed he had obtained adequate skills  to curtail the adverse sexual
activity  that  was  alleged,  particularly  that  caused  by  professional  or  personal
disappointments.  He  stated  that  there  have  been  several  contributors  to  his  ability  to
control his behaviors, “The skills and treatment I have received in counseling, my support
group and support of my wife, and accountability and accountability partners.” (Tr. 25-27,
48-49.)
With regard to adverse sexual activity, Applicant testified that there were several
factors that would prevent him from engaging in such conduct again, “Number one, the
fact that I do not want to do that. Number two, that immediately when I started manifesting
that behavior, I recognized that this was not something I wanted to do, and I sought help
for it. Number three, my support group. Number four, the support of my family.” (Tr. 32.)
Applicant testified that his last relapse of sexual compulsion was several months
before  the  hearing,  sometime  in  2021  or  early  2022.  He  stated  that  those  behaviors
include  “looking  at  pornography,  contacting  women  with  the  intent  to  flirt  or  otherwise
make liaisons.” He further stated that his wife is aware of this activity. (Tr. 47-48.)
Applicant’s wife  submitted  two  declarations on  his behalf. In  Applicant Exhibit A
she stated that she is aware of the allegations contained in the SOR and that the two of
them  are  attending  counseling.  She  believes  Applicant  has  shown  “significant
improvements and no longer participates in the concerned conduct.” (Tr. 46-47.)
After the  hearing  Applicant’s  wife  prepared  Applicant  Exhibit  R.  In  it  she  stated,
“He  has  been  totally  forthcoming  and  honest  with  me,  his  support  group  SG,  and  his
therapist about his activities. He will even share with me an incident when he would use
11
his browser on  the  computer for searches. This is an  activity  that has abated  for some
time.” She  ended  her statement,  “Our marriage  has  never been  better. The  change  in my
husband   over  the   last   four   (4)  years  is  remarkable.   I  totally   support   his  efforts   and
appreciate  the  discipline  that he  has shown  to  improve  his behavior, our marriage, and
our family life.”  (Tr. 27.)
Mitigation
Applicant had a successful military career, as shown by documentation from the
Navy. (Applicant Exhibits D, F, G, and I.)
Applicant received positive recommendations from a fellow Sailor who served with
Applicant. He stated, “Having known [Applicant] for over 20 years now, I have consistently
known  him  to  be  a  loyal  friend,  competent  professional,  and  dedicated  patriot  of
impeccable  integrity  with  an  overwhelming  devotion  to  serving  the  country  he  loves.”
(Applicant Exhibit E at 1; Tr. 29.)
A former supervisor of Applicant during his time in the Navy also submitted a letter
stating, “I absolutely know he exceeds every standard for trustworthiness and character
both  interpersonally  and  with  regard  to  national  security.  In  the  five  years  I’ve  known
[Applicant], he can be relied on to perform all duties with integrity and honesty.” (Applicant
Exhibit E at 3; Tr. 31.)
