In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  1.c,  3.a-d,  and  3.f-h.  He
denied allegations ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 2.a, and 3.e. His admissions are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old. He served in the Army National Guard from 1994-2000,
and received an honorable discharge. He has taken some college courses, but has not
earned  a degree. He has held a security clearance since 2001, and his  last clearance
application was granted in 2011. He was married in 2005 and divorced in 2015. He has
worked in IT for a large defense contractor since 2014. (Item 3)
After  Applicants  divorce,  he  pursued  relationships  with  women  he  met  through
online dating sites. Some of these women were foreign nationals living in other countries.
He  would  communicate  with  these  women  through  email  and  video  calls.  There  were
occasions where he would use his work email address to correspond with them. He did
not report his contacts with foreign women through the appropriate security channels at
work. (Item 3, 4, 5, 6)
Although Applicant attempted to meet these women in person, there is no evidence
in the record that he was successful. In his most substantial online dating relationship,
the woman repeatedly withdrew right before the meetings were scheduled to take place.
In  a  four-month  period  in  2016,  he  submitted  about  twelve  vacation  notices,  which  he
canceled shortly before or after the start of his scheduled leave. This unusual behavior
was  noticed  at  work.  He  also  shared  details  of  these  relationships  with  co-workers,
including that he had met a Russian woman online. They notified security personnel out
of concern for Applicant, and because of the potential security risk posed by his online
activities. (Item 4, 5, 6)
After receiving reports about Applicant’s contact with foreign women, his employer
launched  an  investigation.  It  found  that  he  failed  to  report  his  contact  with  foreign
nationals, and that he was deliberately deceptive with investigators. Co-workers reported
that he told them that he was talking to two Russian women, a women from Colombia,
and  a  woman  from  Costa  Rica.  Security  personnel  were  concerned  that  he  may  be
divulging too much information to these women, and that he may be targeted. They did
an  analysis  of  his  work  computer,  and  found  that  he  used  his  work  email  account  to
correspond with two women, one who was a Russian national, the other was located in
South  Africa.  Although  he  claimed  that  the  Russian  woman  was  like  a  pen  pal,  the
investigation found correspondence stating that Applicant wanted  her to come live with
him, and discussed the potential of marriage. They also found blank immigration forms
on his computer. (Item 3, 4, 5, 6)
Applicant asserted that the woman in South Africa was a U.S. citizen because she
showed him her passport on a video call. He claimed that she was a fashion designer
from Beverly Hills, who resided in South Africa for work. He claimed that she was unable
to return to the U.S. because of passport and visa issues. In 2016, he took out personal
loans to send her money for living expenses and to support her clothing design business.
He sent her money orders about 8-10 times, for a total amount sent between $10,000 to
$20,000. He later learned that she had been deceiving him, and claims to have ended
the relationship in 2016. (Item 4, 6)
In 2016, Applicant told security officials that he would stop all communications if
he  discovered  the  women  he  met  online  were  foreign  nationals.  However,  the  record
shows  that  he  continued  to  contact  foreign  women  until  at  least  2018.  After  the
investigation concluded in June 2016, he was suspended for two days without pay. He
was fired in 2018 for mischarging time. (Item 3, 4, 5, 6)
In his 2019 background interview with a government investigator, Applicant did not
report that he was fired from his job. He told the investigator that he resigned so that he
could take another job, and left on good terms. After the interview concluded, he sent an
email later that day to the investigator and admitted that he had not been truthful about
leaving his employment, and informed them that he had been terminated because of a
time charging audit. (Item 4)
Applicant  has  about  $72,000  in  charged-off  debt.  He  stated  that  his  financial
problems started in late 2015, after meeting a woman online. The record shows that he
is referring to the woman in South Africa. He reported that he took out personal loans to
send her money for living expenses and materials to design clothes. He asserted that she
was supposed to pay him back, but did not. (Answer; Item 4)
Applicant stated that he made mistakes that were neither in his best interest, nor
that of  his employer or  the  government.  He asserted that  it  was  not  his intent  to meet
foreign women online, and it was not his intent to use his email for personal use outside
of  work.  He  claimed  that  he  did  not  receive  training  from  his  employer  about  meeting
foreign nationals on dating websites, and that he had no experience with foreign nationals
prior to this time. He asserted that he did not discuss classified information with anyone
outside of his job. He claimed that when he was terminated in 2018, he was told that it
was an internal incident and could not be reported to the government. He stated that since
the investigator did not  discuss his termination  in his background interview,  he  did not
mention it first. He claims that he had no intent to deceive the government. He stated that
for 27 years he has been in either the military or working as a contractor supporting the
military, and he will do whatever it takes to continue to serve in this role. He reports that
he has been married since November 2020, and has learned from his past indiscretions
(Answer; Response)
The SOR allegations are as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a: Applicant was the subject of an investigation by his employer in 2016,
which confirmed that he used his work email address to correspond with foreign nationals
that he encountered on dating websites, including two women who identified themselves
as Russian nationals. He denied the allegation. In his Answer, he stated that the allegation
is not entirely accurate. He admitted his lack of judgment using his work email address,
and  claimed  that  he  was  having  trouble  using  his  personal  email  address  to  send  the
messages. He claimed that he did not continue to correspond with either of the Russian
women, because they did not reply to him. (Item 4, 5, 6)
SOR  ¶   1.b:   Applicant  took  out  eight  personal  loans  (listed  in  ¶¶  3.a-h)  to  send
money  to  a  woman  that  he  met  on  a  dating  website,  who  resided  in  South  Africa.  He
denied the allegation. In his Answer, he claimed that the woman was a U.S. citizen who
was living in California when they met. He claimed that although she did some work in
South Africa, her permanent address was in California. He admitted taking out personal
loans to assist her clothing design business. He claimed that some of the money from the
loans was wired to her, and the rest he used for his personal expenses. He reported that
they dated in 2016, but he terminated the relationship after finding out she was a liar and
dishonest about her business practices. He claimed that he is working on paying his debt.
(Item 4, 6)
SOR ¶  1.c: Applicant was fired from his job in about 2018 for time mischarging. He
admitted the allegation. (Item 4)
SOR  ¶   1.d:  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  in  his  January  2019  background
interview with a government investigator by stating that he resigned his job on good terms
to accept another offer, and deliberately sought to conceal that he was fired in 2018 for
time mischarging. He denied the allegation. In his Answer, he claimed that it was not his
intent  to  conceal  his  termination.  He  thought  that  the  government  would  have  already
known about his termination, since it occurred five months prior. He claimed that he was
embarrassed and ashamed, but he should have been truthful. He claims that he wrote a
letter of amendment immediately afterwards and sent it to the investigator, to inform them
of his misinformation. (Item 4)
SOR  ¶  2.a  cross-alleged  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  as  a  foreign  influence  security
concern. He denied the allegation. In his Answer, he stated that he was not aware of the
reporting policies regarding online dating and reporting foreign contacts. He claimed that
he had no experience with foreign nationals prior to this time. (Item 4, 6)
SOR ¶ 3.a is a charged-off account for $10,352. He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR ¶ 3.b is a charged-off  account for $8,033.  He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR ¶ 3.c is a charged-off account for $11,823. He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR ¶ 3.d is a charged-off  account for $7,256.  He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR  ¶ 3.e is a  charged-off  account for $4,465.  He denied the allegation.  In his
Answer, he claimed that this debt was satisfied on February 25, 2021. He submitted an
account statement with his Answer, dated March 6, 2021, which showed that this account
had a zero balance. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR  ¶  3.f  is  a  charged-off  account  for  $6,633.  He  admitted  the  allegation,  and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR ¶ 3.g is a charged-off  account for $7,057.  He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
SOR ¶ 3.h is a charged-off account for $16,394. He admitted the allegation, and
claimed that he is working with the creditor to pay the debt. He did not provide sufficient
evidence to support his claim. (Item 4, 7, 8, 9)
With the exception of SOR ¶ 3.e, Applicant did not provide documentation showing
that  any  of  his  charged-off  debts  have  been  or  are  being  paid,  disputed,  or  otherwise
resolved. He also submitted no documentation concerning his current financial situation,
such as his monthly income and expenses, his assets, or whether he follows a budget.
He did not provide sufficient evidence showing that he has received credit counseling.
