Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked since September 2017. He also worked additional part-time jobs during this time
frame. He received a high school diploma in 2002. He has been married and divorced
twice. His most recent divorce was in November 2019. He has three  children of whom
he  holds  joint  custody.  He  had  a  stepson  until  his  2019  divorce.  He  served  on  active
duty  with  the  U.S.  Navy  from  2002  to  August  2017  and  received  an  honorable
discharge. (Items 3, 4)
In   the   SOR,   the   Government   alleged   Applicant’s  two   delinquent  debts   totaling
about  $53,000   (SOR  ¶¶   1.a   and   1.b).   In   his  response   to   the   SOR,  Applicant   admitted
these  debts with  additional comment.  The Guideline  F SOR  allegations are established
through  Applicant’s admissions,  his entries  in  his SF 8  6,  and  the  credit reports produced
by   the   Government.   The   home   improvement   loan   in  SOR  ¶   1.a   appears   in  the   2020,
2021,  and   2022   credit   reports  and   reflects  a   last   payment   date   of  January   2019.  The
personal  loan   in   SOR   ¶   1.b   appears   in   the   2020,   2021,   and   2022   credit  reports   and
reflects a  last  payment  date  of December 2018. He  provided  no  documentary  evidence
to  show  that either of  these  debts were paid,  disputed, or otherwise resolved. (Items 1-
6, 11)
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  his  most  recent  divorce  and  the
financial  burden  of  his  child  and  spousal  support  payments.  He  claimed  that  he  is
paying about $2,400 per month for child support, spousal support, and to repay benefits
received  from  the  state.  He  pays  about  $160  per  month  for  half  of  a  $2,500  personal
loan  that  he  and  his  ex-wife  obtained  prior  to  their  divorce.  He  also  attributed  his
financial  problems  to  his  and  his  latest  ex-wife’s  poor  financial  planning  and  poor
spending  habits.  Additionally,  he  claimed  that  damages  to  his  home  from  a  fire  that
were  not  covered  by  his homeowner’s  insurance  caused  him  financial  problems,  most
specifically with the debt listed in SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant did not respond to the FORM, so
more recent information about his finances is not available. (Items 1, 3, 4-6, 11)
In April 2018, Applicant was arrested at his home after a physical altercation with
his 14-year-old stepson. The two  argued about his  stepson completing his chores and
the argument turned physical. Applicant claimed that he hit his stepson in the shoulder
and  then  wrestled  him  to  the  ground  to  subdue  him.  Applicant’s  stepson  claimed  that
during the physical altercation, he was unable to breathe, but Applicant denied that he
choked  him.  Applicant’s  spouse  called  the  police.  The  police  arrested  Applicant,  and
charged  him  with  felony  risk  of  injury  to  a  child,  misdemeanor  strangulation  or
suffocation  in  the  third  degree,  and  misdemeanor  breach  of  peace  in  the  second
degree.  He  pleaded  not  guilty  and  was  released,  but  was  ordered  to  have  no  contact
with  his  spouse  and  stepson.  As  a  result  of  this  incident,  he  attended  mental  health
counseling  from  April  2018  until  August  2018.  The  record  is  equivocal  on  whether  he
voluntarily  attended  counseling  or  it  was  court  ordered.  He  also  voluntarily  took  anger
management therapy from June 2018 until September 2018. He claimed that as a result
of attending this counseling, the aforementioned charges against him were dropped. He
also  claimed that he pleaded  nolo contendre,  which  is not consistent  with  the  charges
being  dismissed.  There  is  no  independent  documentary  evidence  in  the  record  that
verifies the disposition of this matter. (Items 3, 4, 7-10)
Applicant was arrested in April 2006 for domestic violence. He underwent anger
management  therapy  for  an  unspecified  period  of  time  after  this  arrest.  There  is  no
additional evidence in the record regarding the disposition of this arrest. (Item 4)
In  the  SOR,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  2018  arrest,  nolo  contendre
plea,  and  mental  health  counseling  under  Guideline  J.  The  Government  cross-alleged
this allegation under Guideline E. Applicant admitted both these allegations but claimed
that his counseling has  helped him  overcome  the  issues  that led to  the  assault on his
former stepson. He claimed he has avoided any criminal conduct and has made better
decisions since his 2018 arrest and his subsequent counseling. (Items 1, 2, 4)
