Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. I have incorporated his admissions
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old. He obtained a general equivalency diploma in 2013. He
is not married, but cohabitates with his fiancée and they have a two-year-old child. He
has been employed by a federal contractor since August 2018. (Item 3)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in August 2020. In it,
he disclosed his illegal drug use and other drug involvement. Applicant was interviewed
by  a  government  investigator  in  December  2020,  and  provided  additional  information
about his illegal drug use. (Items 3, 4)
From about January 2008 through at least May 2018, Applicant purchased, grew,
used,  and  sold marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  In  his SCA,  he  stated  he  would  use
marijuana regularly during this period, usually with friends, but sometimes on his own. He
said regarding his frequency, he used it “multiple times daily for an amount of years.” He
further stated regarding his intent to use in future, “I do not intend to use this drug because
it is federally banned.” (Item 3)
From January 2009 through at least June 2016, Applicant used cocaine with varying
frequency. In his SCA, he said that he experimented with cocaine about five to ten times
during this period. (Item 3)
From  about  January  2009
least  May  2016,  Applicant  used
through  at
hallucinogenics,  including  LSD,  mushrooms  and  research  chemicals  with  varying
frequency. He said he experimented with LSD about  ten times, mushrooms twice, and
research chemical about three to five times. (Item 3)
From   about  June   2013   through   at  least   May   2015,   Applicant   used   Ecstasy   with
varying frequency. He experimented with Ecstasy between  five  to  ten  times. (Item 3
From May 2014 through at least May 2016, Applicant used prescription codeine,
Percocet,  and  Xanax,  not  prescribed  to  him, with  varying frequency.  He  used  codeine
about three to five times over a month, but ultimately did not like it and stopped. He also
misused Percocet and Xanax on random opportunities maybe 10 to15 times over a year.
(Item 3)
During his background interview, Applicant  stated he used drugs with his friends
either at his home or at his friends’ homes. Sometimes he would drink alcohol, but not to
intoxication. He would purchase drugs and sometimes friends provided them to him, or
they would pool their money and purchase drugs together. He said he was not dependent
on drugs and has never received any treatment or counseling for his drug use. He is still
friends with one of the people he used drugs with, but no longer does anything illegal with
him. He had no plans to do anything with drugs in the future because it is illegal for those
who work on government contracts. (Item 4)
Applicant told the investigator that he received a citation when he was 18 years old
for possession of a small amount of marijuana. He went to court, pleaded guilty, was fined
and completed 24 hours of community service. The citation was issued in March 2013.
(Item 4)
In his SCA, Applicant stated that he grew three marijuana plants in his basement
over a three-month period and never did again. He also confirmed that he would purchase
marijuana from someone he knew and then would sell what he purchased to his friends.
It was always a small amount, about a few grams. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant told the investigator that his life changed when he got an internship with
a government contractor and then was hired for a permanent job. It also changed after
he became a father and became engaged. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR and statement to the government investigator, he
stated he did not grow up in a good environment. He had to help his mother raise his
siblings  after  his  stepfather  committed  suicide,  and  his  mother  had  to  provide  for  the
family. He found the pressure of home  life and peer pressure led him down the wrong
path. He stated that in 2018, his life changed and he did not want to continue down that
path. He enrolled in a technical program that instilled a new focus and gave him positive
goals  for  his  life.  He  participated  in  an  IT  internship  program.  He obtained  a  technical
certification, was hired for a permanent job when he completed his internship, and most
importantly he now is responsible for his family and being a positive and strong role model
for his daughter. (Items 2, 4) He further stated:
I understand that I did not make wise choices as a youth and fully admit that
I was not responsible and made decisions that will negatively impact me for
the rest of my life. But I would like you to consider that I have worked hard
to turn my life around and be a productive and positive member of society
along with raising a strong child in a safe environment so that she will not
be subjected to the same negative opportunities and peers that I was. (Item
2)
