In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b (in part), and 3.a.
He  denied  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  2.a  and  2.b.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. He was married in 2000, and divorced in 2018. He has
two minor children  with his former wife. He earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in 1999  and  a
master’s degree in 2007. He has worked for a large defense contractor since 2001, and
is employed as a support planning and management engineer. He has held a security
clearance since 2001. (Items 3, 4)
In  March  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  as  part  of  a  police  sting  operation,  for
patronizing  a  prostitute.  He  responded  to  an  advertisement  on  a  website  known  for
prostitution. The advertisement was posted and monitored by an undercover detective in
the  local  police  department.  Applicant  exchanged  several  text  massages  with  the
undercover detective, and requested a sex act in exchange for money.  He went to the
designated meet-up location, which was a local motel, and requested the room number
by text message. He was stopped by police leaving the motel parking lot. During the stop,
the detective confirmed that Applicant’s phone was used to respond to the advertisement
and send the text messages. After being charged with patronizing a prostitute, he entered
a plea deal and the charge was reduced to criminal trespass. He pled guilty and received
an 18-month deferred sentence, a fine, a requirement to attend “John school,” and take
an HIV test. He was also ordered to stay away from the motel where he was arrested and
any online websites hosting personal ads for dating services. (Item 5, 6, 7)
Applicant was also stopped in 2005 by police for picking up two prostitutes on the
street, one who was a minor at the time. The record states that after the stop, he told the
officer that he believed the women were prostitutes. He was not arrested, but the officer
gave him a verbal warning. (Item 6, 7)
In Applicant’s July 2020 background interview with a government investigator, he
reported that he had patronized prostitutes in 2015 during a period of turbulence in his
marriage. He initially described these encounters as affairs with “many women,” but later
admitted to the investigator that these women were prostitutes. His wife discovered his
activities  because  the  money  he  was  spending  appeared  suspicious  on  their  financial
statements. This circumstance resulted in her filing for divorce. (Item 5).
In Applicant’s September 2021 background interview, he admitted that he has a
sex addiction. He also stated that he would not engage in this behavior again, and claimed
that  he  was  controlling  his  urges.  He  reported  that  he  was  seeking  anonymous  group
counseling, through an online virtual service. (Item 5)
In  his  Response,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  diagnosed  with  sex  addiction  in
2015, and had participated in several years of counseling. He also reported that, in 2015,
he  began  attending  weekly  meetings  of  Sex  Addicts  Anonymous,  which  is  a  12-step
program. He attended those meetings in person until 2020, and then virtually because of
the pandemic. It is unknown whether he is still attending these meetings. He stated that
after his 2019 arrest, he sought comprehensive addiction treatment for three weeks at an
inpatient facility. (Response)
Applicant submitted a letter from his former counselor that states that he attended
therapy  with  her  from  2015  through  2020,  and  that  he  sought  treatment  for  sexual
compulsivity issues, and struggled with depression and anxiety. He also submitted a letter
from  a  rehabilitation  center that  states  in  March  and  April  2019,  he  received  a  21-day
inpatient residential clinical and therapeutic treatment. It does not state for what condition
he was treated. No assessment, prognosis, or further information was provided by either
treatment provider. (AE A, B)
The SOR alleges:
SOR ¶  1.a: Applicant was arrested  in March 2019  and  charged  with  patronizing  a
prostitute. He admitted  the  allegation.  (Item  2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
SOR ¶  1.b: Applicant engaged  in solicitation of prostitutes in about 2015  and  was
questioned   by   police.  He  admitted   engaging   in  solicitation   in   2015,  but  denied   being
questioned by police in 2015. The  Government submitted evidence  showing  that he was
questioned by police in 2005, not 2015. (Item  2, 5, 6, 7)
SOR ¶  2.a: Applicant failed  to  report his charge  for patronizing  a  prostitute  to  his
employer’s facility  security  officer (FSO),  as required  by  the  National Industrial Security
Program   Operating   Manual  (NISPOM).   He   denied   the   allegation   and   claims   that   his
failure to  report was a  misunderstanding. He  explained  that he  thought that he  did  not
have  to  report the  incident  until he  filled  out his next SCA,  which was submitted  about a
year  later.   He  claimed   that  he   did  not  intend   to   hide   the   arrest.  He  discrepantly   also
asserted  that he  asked  the  FSO  for a  form  to  report the  adverse information, and  was told
there was not  one. He  stated  that he  did not understand  the  reporting  process in 2019,
and   was  unaware  of   any   reporting   issue   until  he   received   the   SOR  in  May   2022.  He
admitted  that  he  told  a  former co-worker about his arrest, but  not  his manager or  then
current co-workers. (Item  2, 5; Response)
SOR  ¶   2.b:  Cross-alleged   the   allegations  in   ¶¶   1.a   and   1.b   under   Guideline   E
(personal  conduct).  Applicant  denied   the   allegations  on   the   basis   that  it  is  redundant.
(Item  2)
SOR  ¶   3.a:  Cross-alleged   the   allegations  in   ¶¶   1.a   and   1.b   under  Guideline   J
(criminal conduct). Applicant admitted  the allegation. (Item  2)
Applicant stated that he has had a security clearance for 20 years, and has always
safeguarded classified information. He  admitted  making mistakes of  personal conduct,
and  that  he  continued  to  take  steps  so  that  he  does  not  repeat  those  mistakes.
(Response)
