Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  an  American
citizen by birth and comes from a long-line of American citizens. He noted his parents are
proud Americans that taught him about the privileges of being an American citizen, and
the importance of the rights that we enjoy as American citizens. (Tr. 30) He grew up and
was educated in the United States, graduating from college with a double major in 2001.
After  college,  he  held  a  couple  of  jobs  that  allowed  him  to  display  his
professionalism, skills, and knowledge. A federal contractor hired Applicant in 2007, and
he held a position of trust for 10 years. (Tr. 34) A large federal contractor hired him in
2017, and it is currently sponsoring his security clearance. His current income is $165,000
a year.
The SOR  alleges  that Applicant’s  cohabitant  is a  dual  citizen  of  Russia  and  the
United States who previously held a government job in Russia (SOR ¶ 1.a) and that his
in-laws (father, mother, and sister) are citizens and residents of Russia. (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c,
and 2.d). He admitted all of the foreign influence allegations with explanations.
Applicant met his  cohabitant  and  domestic partner  (DP)  in  2011. She  was born  in
Russia  to  Russian  parents  in 1984.  She  grew up  and  was educated  in  Russia,  graduating
from  college  in 2005. (Tr. 126) She  met her first husband, an  American  working  with  a
U.S. agency  in Moscow, in 2004. They  married,  and  she became pregnant.  She entered
the  United  States in 2008  while  pregnant  so  that her  daughter could  be  born  in the  United
States. She  received  her green  card in 2009, and  became  a  naturalized  U.S. citizen  in
2011. (Tr. 79) Her ex-husband filed for divorce in 2011,  which was finalized  in 2016.  (Tr.
131)
Applicant and his DP started a romantic relationship in January 2012. Since then,
he  has  been  providing  financial  support for her and  her child.  Applicant  and  his father
visited  Russia  in  June  2012,  where  they  met  and  stayed  with  her  Russian  immediate
family during their two-week visit. He has traveled with her to Russia almost every year,
including  2013,  2015,  2016,  2017,  and  2019.  They  stayed  with  her  family  for  about  a
month on each visit. The purpose of their visits is for his DP to visit with her family and
friends. (Tr. 71)
Applicant  and  his  DP  are  friends  with  a  couple  from  Kazakhstan  who  were
assigned to  Kazakhstan’s embassy in the United States. During their visit to Russia in
2016, they travelled to Kazakhstan to visit with their friends who were in their country at
the  time.  She  maintains  contact  with  her  friends  from  Kazakhstan  via  messaging
applications. Her friends are currently assigned to the Kazakhstan embassy in England.
(Tr. 119)
Applicant purchased an apartment in 2014 and they moved in together in October
2014. In 2016, they entered into a domestic partnership because he wanted to provide
medical insurance to his DP and her daughter. She receives child support from her ex-
husband, performs some modeling work, and is developing a small business from their
home.  Applicant  noted  that  she  is  very  independent  and  takes  pride  in  being  able  to
provide for herself. He feels that they are in a committed relationship. They have children
together, and he intends to continue their relationship like a husband and wife. (Tr. 82)
Applicant and  his DP have  three  children, ages 14, 7, and  6; all  of  them  were born
in  the   United   States.  The   oldest  is  Applicant’s  stepdaughter  who   was  born  of   a   prior
marriage  of  his DP with  an  American. He  and  his DP have  no  interest  in their  children
having   dual citizenship   with   Russia  or having   a   Russian   passport.   She   is teaching   the
children  to  speak Russian, and they  travel to Russia with  Applicant and his DP. She  has
tutors for her children  to help them learn the  Russian language. (Tr. 47, 118)
Applicant’s DP has three savings accounts and a checking account in a Russian
bank,  and  she  owns  some  shares  on  a  Russian  bank  that  she  purchased  as  an
investment in 2020. Some of these accounts the DP has held since she began working
in  Russia.  Others  she  opened  to  facilitate  her  transferring  money  to  her  family  when
needed or to pay expenses during their visits to Russia. She uses her bank accounts to
pay her children’s tutors in Russia.
Applicant and  his DP denied  having  any  financial or property  interest  in Russia. He
also  denied   providing   financial  assistance   to   his  DP’s  relatives  in   Russia,  other  than
buying  food  and  giving  small  presents during  their  visits.  (Tr. 43) He  considers the  current
political  regime   in   Russia  to   be   extremely   disturbing   and   disappointing.  (Tr.  44)   He
believes he  was  naive  about Russia  when  he  first started  visiting.  He  was  not aware of
the   levels of   violence, intimidation,   and  the   lack  of  protection   of human   rights  that any
person, and  especially the  citizens, have  to  endure.  He  believes Russia  is an extremely
corrupt  country, almost  like  a  large  organized  crime  organization  where even  the  judicial
system is corrupt. (Tr. 44)
Applicant noted that his DP was the first person that brought to his attention that
journalists  are  routinely threatened, beaten, and murdered  in  Russia,  and  that  citizens
cannot count on having any rights. He agrees with the evidence admitted at his hearing
identifying  Russia  as  a  hostile  country.  Russian  people  who  express  dissent  to  be
threatened,  beaten,  jailed  and  murdered.  Russia  is  engaging  in  an  aggressive  war  in
Ukraine in which many civilians have died. (Tr. 46, 53, 143)
The DP possesses a U.S. passport and a valid Russian passport. She exclusively
uses  her  Russian  passport  to  travel  to  Russia.  She  has  considered  renouncing  her
Russian citizenship, but she is concerned the Russian government may interfere with her
ability to travel to Russia. Visiting her Russian family is very important to her, and she
does not want to risk her ability to do so. She is concerned about having to request visas
and not being assured of her right to travel and to be with her family. Her grandmother is
92 years old, and her parents are aging. The DP has a very close-knit, loving, and caring
relationship  with  her  Russian  family.  (Tr. 72)  The  DP  speaks  with  her  mother  and  her
sister  daily  through  the  telephone  or  messaging  applications,  and  she  has  a  close
relationship with her father. They speak or communicate with each other at least once a
week.  (Tr.  73)  She  asked  her  family  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States,  but  his
grandmother  is  too  old  and  her  parents  are  not  interested  in  leaving  their  relatives  in
Russia. Russia refuses to honor United States citizenship for any Russian citizens. (Tr.
48, 137)
The  Russia  government  paid  for  the  DP’s  education.  She  graduated  with  a
business  administration  degree.  Applicant  believes  that  she  has  never  worked  in  any
capacity for the Russian Federation or the Russian government. She worked for a Middle
Eastern country embassy in Moscow in 2005 in an administrative position. From October
2005 to June of 2009, she worked for foreign industry business developing firm in Moscow
as a secretary to the assistant to the head of the representative of that office. (Tr. 75 - 77)
The  DP  is  afraid  to  travel  to  Russia.  She  testified  she  has  been  quite  vocal  on
social media against the Russian government and against the war in Ukraine. She also
protested in the United States in front of a Russian embassy when an opposition leader
was imprisoned. (Tr. 158 – 159) She is worried that she will be arrested when she travels
to Russia again. She currently does not feel safe about travelling to Russia. (Tr. 137) She
testified that for the last 16 years, she has been decrying the political situation in Russia,
the  numerous  human  rights  violations,  the  imprisonments  and  assassinations  of
journalists,  opposition  leaders,  and  political  activists.  She  does  not  see  herself  ever
wanting to or agreeing to cooperate with or assist the Russian government in any way for
any reason, including possible pressure on my family members. (Tr. 148 - 149)
The  DP’s parents are citizen  and  residents of Russia.  Her mother graduated from
a  Russian  university  in  1986. (Tr. 87)  Between  1986  and  1987, she  worked  for an   all-
Russian   scientific   research   institute   of   Ukraine   lands.   (Tr.   87)   She   receives  a  Russian
government pension  of  8,755.00  rubles a  year (about $250  a  month),  that started  in 2012.
(Tr.  90, 165)  She  frequently  visited  the  United  States  to  help the  DP  with  her first child.
Both  of  her parents  understand  English  well,  and  her mother  can  speak it  at the  same
level   that  Applicant  can   speak  Russian.  He  met  his  mother-in-law   in  2012   when   she
visited  his  DP in the  US.  She  visited  for six  months between  August 2014  and  February
2015,  and  stayed  with  her boyfriend  in another state.  (Tr. 170)  She  also visited  Applicant
and  his family  from  March 2015  to  June  2015, from  September 2015  to  March 2016, in
2017  for about  three  months, and in 2019  for about five months  (Tr.  96  - 99)
Applicant’s father-in-law served  in the  Soviet  army from 1979 to 1981, and was
transferred  to  the  reserve.  He  was  a  graphics  designer  working  for a  newspaper,  and
began collecting his retired pension of about 17,000 rubles (about $6,000) in 2016. (Tr.
101 – 103)
The  DP’s sister works in sales  in an office supply and furniture store in Russia.
She is married and has a child. Her husband works in a book-printing factory in Russia.
(Tr. 106, 182) The DP and her sister have a very close relationship; they have contact
with each other every day or at least every other day.
Applicant’s  references  attest  to  his  work  ethic,  integrity,  honesty,  ability  to  work
under pressure, and his leadership. His evaluation reports corroborate these personality
traits  and  attributes.  His  employer  and  references  praised  his  performance,  diligence,
trustworthiness,  professionalism,  and  contributions  to  mission  accomplishment.  They
identify him as a valuable and productive employee. (AE O – S)
