Applicant is a 52-year old married man with two children, ages ten and five. He has
a bachelor’s degree in information technology. (Tr. 78) For the past 12 years, he has been
working  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  writes  technical  documentation  for  cybersecurity
software. (Tr. 82)
Applicant is highly respected on the job and in his community. (AE I) The former
president  of  the  company  employing  Applicant  supervised  him  for  five  years.  In  his
experience, Applicant’s technical writing prowess was unparalleled. (AE I) He entrusted
Applicant to ensure access control to the company’s most sensitive documents, and never
questioned his ability to “make the right decisions.” (AE I) A coworker opined that Applicant
is a “consummate bridge builder” who works well with others and exudes the principles of
honesty, dependability, and reliability “in spades.” (AE I at 5) Applicant lives near a military
academy  and  is  active  in  a  sponsor  program,  providing  a  home  away  from  home  for
students.  (GE I at 6,9)
Applicant’s wife is an attorney. During the prime of her career in  the  early  2010s,
she  was extremely  successful, earning  some  years approximately  $200,000  annually.  (Tr.
49)   Her  job   was  demanding,  as  she   worked   long   hours  and   commuted   roundtrip
approximately  two  hours daily. (Tr. 53) In  addition  to  working  long  hours,  she  managed  the
family’s   finances.   (Tr.  51)These   demands  caused   her  to   experience   anxiety.   (Tr.  52)
Preoccupied  with  trying  to  maintain her work and  life  balance, Applicant’s wife  began  to
neglect  the  household finances. Applicant periodically  asked  her about their  finances.  She
repeatedly  lied  and  told him  that she  was “on  top  of  it.”  (Tr. 65) Applicant’s wife  testified
that she  had  issues with  control and  that she  was embarrassed  and  ashamed  to  tell  the
truth to Applicant. (Tr. 51) Applicant never probed more deeply into the  family’s  finances
because  his spouse  had  given  him  no  reason  to  doubt her  veracity.  He  considered  joint
involvement  with  the  finances  to  be  a  “duplication  of  effort,”  and  assumed  that  their
finances were stable because he and his wife both earned professional incomes. (Tr. 86)
Applicant’s wife did not “come clean” about the extent of their financial problems until early
2020, after Applicant told her that their financial problems, previously unbeknownst to him,
compelled his facility security officer to speak with him. (Tr. 58, 86)
In 2012, Applicant’s wife’s anxiety began taking a toll on her health, as she had “”an
exceptional [sic] difficult time  recovering from  the  birth” of  their first child. (Tr. 51) After
recovering from childbirth, she hired a nanny and returned to work. The help of a nanny did
not ameliorate the anxiety that Applicant’s wife experienced before taking maternity leave.
In fact, her multiple roles as “an employee, a mother, a wife, and an employer,” triggered
postpartum depression. Although her doctor prescribed medication in 2013, the illness did
not resolve until 2015. (Tr. 52) That year, Applicant’s wife left her job and took one that was
much closer to home. Her new position paid only about half of what she earned previously.
(Tr. 73) By then, Applicant and his wife had fallen behind on their mortgage loan and their
home  equity  line  of  credit,  as  alleged  in  subparagraphs  1.a  and  1.b,  and  on  one  of
Applicant’s credit card debts, as alleged in subparagraph 1.c. Moreover, they had failed to
file  their  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  for  2014  through  2018,  as  alleged  in
subparagraphs 1.d through 1.f.
SOR subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b relate to a home Applicant and his wife purchased
in 2013. (GE 1 at 40: AE B) When they financed their mortgage loan, their lender did not
escrow the property taxes, as Applicant and his wife decided to make payments to the tax
authority  directly.  (Tr.  59)  In  2018,  they  did  not  set  aside  enough  money  to  pay  their
property taxes. Consequently, when the taxes became due, they could not afford to make
the payments. (Tr. 59) The mortgage company then began prorating the delinquency and
adding it to the monthly mortgage payment, resulting in an $800 monthly increase. (Tr. 60)
Applicant and his wife began to fall behind on their mortgage. They then applied for a loan
modification.  (Tr.  61)  While  they  were  negotiating  a  modification,  the  lender  filed  a
foreclosure action. (Tr. 61) After the bank approved the loan modification, Applicant and his
wife began rehabilitating the mortgage. By May 2020, they had caught up on the mortgage
payments  through  the  rehabilitation  plan.  (Tr.  94)  The  lender  then  dismissed  the
foreclosure action. (GE 2) As of the date of the hearing, both the mortgage and the home
equity line of credit accounts were current. (AE B, AE C)
The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.c, totaling $385, is the final interest charge on a
credit-card bill that Applicant and his wife paid in a lump sum. He suspects that the interest
accrued while the lump-sum payment was in the mail. (Tr. 101) Applicant and his wife
satisfied this debt in July 2020. (GE 2 at 13)
Applicant and his wife began struggling with federal income tax payments in 2012,
the first year they hired a nanny. They had difficulty properly accounting for the payroll tax
and  related  taxes  associated  with  employing  a  household  caregiver.  (Tr.  26)  When
Applicant’s wife calculated the income tax due for tax year 2013, it totaled $10,000. (Tr. 52)
They were unable to afford this payment, and things “spiraled from there.” (Tr. 53) Each
successive tax year, Applicant’s wife did not file their federal or state income tax returns.
When she eventually told Applicant about these failures, she explained that she did not
know how to rectify the prior years’ deficiencies and was afraid they would owe taxes that
were beyond their incomes. (GE 1 at 36) In lieu of complying with their income-tax return
filing  obligations,  Applicant’s  wife  focused  on  whatever  financial  problem  was  “on  the
horizon,” and she let the tax issues spiral out of control. (Tr. 53) Ultimately, they failed to
file their federal income tax returns for 2014 through 2018.
In February 2020, Applicant and his wife retained an accountant. (GE 2 at 8) With
his help, they filed their delinquent state income tax returns and paid the deficiency, totaling
$2,309. (GE 2 at 17-19) After resolving the delinquent state income tax returns, Applicant
then focused on the delinquent federal income tax returns, filing them by the summer of
2020. (Tr. 24) Currently, he owes a balance of $183,000.  (AE E; Tr. 23-24)
After filing their delinquent income tax returns in July 2020, Applicant and his wife,
with the help of their accountant, initially requested to arrange an installment plan with the
IRS to repay the tax delinquency. (Tr. 24) The IRS rejected this plan. After the rejection,
Applicant  in  November  2021  then  filed  a  request  to  pay  the  delinquency  through  a
withdrawal from his 401k plan. (Tr. 24, 26) The approval is still pending.  The approval
process is taking a long time because there was initially a dispute about the amount of tax
delinquency. Specifically, after Applicant’s accountant filed the returns, the IRS refused to
accept the respective Schedule H forms, contending  that the  accountant’s  inclusion of
them in the tax returns was erroneous. (Tr. 26) Applicant and his spouse then instructed
their accountant to re-file the returns without the Schedule H. Several months later, the IRS
concluded that Applicant’s accountant calculated the taxes correctly when he initially filed
the returns with the Schedule H forms.
Applicant’s accountant, an expert in assisting individuals resolve tax delinquencies,
testified that it was unusual for the IRS to make such a mistake. In addition, he testified
that the approval process for a 401k withdrawal was taking two to four times longer than
usual. (Tr. 31) He is having similar problems with other clients and attributes it to staffing
problems at the IRS and lingering problems stemming from the pandemic. (Tr. 31-32)
Applicant  has  a  balance  of  $180,000  in  his  401k  plan.  (AE  L)  He  requested  to
arrange  a  temporary  payment  plan  while  the  approval  of  the  401k  withdrawal  plan  is
pending. (Tr. 33) The IRS rejected this offer, and advised him to wait until they make a
decision on the 401k plan. Applicant was then informed that while the approval process is
pending, there will be a hold on any collection actions. (Tr. 34)
In March 2021, Applicant and his wife retained a financial counselor. With his help,
they crafted a budget. According to the budget, they have $5,706 of monthly discretionary
income. (AE G at 6) Applicant and his wife have a stronger, more transparent relationship,
as  they  now  communicate  regularly  about  their  finances.  (Tr.  63)  They  discuss  any
potential expenditure  before making  it, and  they sit down  weekly “to  talk about what is
going on in [their] family, what [their] financial obligations are, [and] how [they are going to]
handle things that pop up.” (Tr. 62)
