Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 64 years old. He is a college graduate. He has worked for a federal
contractor since 1982. He married in 1996 and has two children, ages 24 and 22.
The  SOR alleges six  delinquent debts (¶¶ 1.a  - $1,384;  1.b  - $30,717; 1.c - $1,800;
1.d  - $167; 1.e  - $8,758) that Applicant admitted in  his SOR answer that he  owes.
In Applicant’s January 2020 security clearance application (SCA), he disclosed he
owed the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b. He said that due to medical bills he had to use this credit
card. He stated he had not made a payment on the card since 2015. He had received
offers to  settle  the  debt for approximately $8,000.  He  stated, “My plan  is to  hold  on  for
another year of two due to the likely/sadly inheritance that will resolve all debts.” He did
not disclose any other delinquent debts in his SCA. (Item 3)
In June 2020, a government investigator interviewed Applicant.  The investigator
addressed the debts with him that are alleged in  SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, and 1.e. He told the
investigator  that  the  credit  card  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  was  due  to  his  wife  being  laid  off,
medical bills, and deaths in the family that he incurred large travel expenses. He said he
intended to pay all of these debts. He said he had been “sloppy” with his debt payments,
but felt he had a safety net with his father and would pay the debts in full when his father
passed away, and he gets his inheritance. His father was 88 years old at that time. He
was also confronted with the smaller debt in SOR ¶ 1.f, which he said he had not been
aware of, and he would pay it as soon as he could contact the creditor. (Item 7)
In Applicant’s April 2022 answer to the SOR, he stated:
At face  value, this is embarrassing  for me  to  see  this  list of  significant old
debt  and   smaller  billing   discrepancies  between   myself   and   the   collection
agencies/original  service  companies.   Fortunately,  I’m   at  a   point   in   time
where I can quickly eliminate all  of these debts. (Item 2)
* * *
For the four smaller amounts (line items 1, 3, 4 and 6) I have now and will
soon pay them all off. These were either overlooked or disputed bills that I
will quickly take care of to clear them from my credit report. (Item 2)
Applicant explained  that in the  past his parents  could financially  support him  and
his siblings as needed  throughout their  lives. He had  to  reach  out to  his father  in the  past
to  help him  handle large  unexpected  bills or revenue  loss when  his  wife  lost  her job.  He
said  that  his  father  considered   his  financial  help  as  an   advance   to   his  son’s  eventual
inheritance.  Regarding   the   two   credit  cards  debts  alleged   in   SOR  ¶¶  1.b   and   1.e,
Applicant said  that due  to  the  amount of  these  debts,  he  knew  they  would not go  away,
but he  did not have  the  money  to  pay  them. He  said that as his father  approached  his 90th
birthday, he  father disclosed  the  amount of  the  inheritance  his children  would receive. His
father  has  since   passed   away   and   his  sister  is  the   executor  of   the   father’s  estate.  He
stated  that the  family  trust  was 80% complete  in distributing  funds to  the  children  who  are
the  beneficiaries. Applicant said he  was “unwinding  the  various positions the  trust account
was invested in” and planned to eliminate all  of the debt in the SOR. (Item 2)
Applicant  further  stated  in  his  SOR  answer,  “I’ve  always  known  that  I  would
constantly  be  able  to  handle  my  debts  by  reaching  out  to  my  father  as  needed  or
eventually receive the inheritance.” (Item 2) Therefore, Applicant did not believe he would
be vulnerable due to his debts or that his reliability or trustworthiness would be in question.
He stated that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a, a past-due amount on his mortgage, had been paid.
Applicant’s March 2022 credit report shows the debt is past due. Applicant did not provide
any documentary evidence with his SOR answer to show he has paid or resolved any of
the alleged debts. (Items 2, 4)
The  debts  in  the  SOR  are  corroborated  by  Applicant’s  admissions  in  his  SOR
answer, disclosures in his SCA, admissions to the government investigator, admissions
in his response to the FORM, and credit reports from  March 2022, January 2022, and
April 2020. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he noted that the investigator included in the
summary of  his interview that there  was nothing  in Applicant’s background,  lifestyle  or
conduct,  which  could subject  him  to  coercion  or blackmail. This comment  was  not  the
opinion or findings of the government investigator, but was rather the answer Applicant
provided to the investigator in response to the inquiry about his delinquent debts and past.
(AE A)
As he said in his SOR answer, Applicant also stated in his response to the FORM
that he was current on the past-due payments on his mortgage (SOR ¶ 1.a), but he did
not provide documentary proof. He stated that the creditor on the credit card debt in SOR
¶ 1.b had not contacted him or attempted to collect the debt. He said:
I will absolutely  pay  the  full  unpaid  balance. Due  to  the  unknown  tax  impact
of   liquidating   the   various  types  of  investment  I  inherited   from   my   father’s
trust,  final remediation  has been  delayed. That said,  this  unpaid  balance  bill
be paid in full before year-end. (AE  A)
Applicant said he would also pay the debt in full for SOR ¶ 1.e by the end of the year, but
had to wait to find out the tax implications of his inheritance. SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.e are not
resolved. (AE A)
Applicant stated  in his FORM  response  that he  researched  the  creditor in SOR ¶
1.c and  said that company  clearly had  run  a fraudulent business. He  provided  no  further
explanation. He  admitted  he owed the  debt and  did not explain if he had been a victim of
fraud. He  said that he  felt  that paying  them  only  enables their  fraudulent business, but
because  the  debt had  an  impact on  his security  clearance, he  would  pay  it. He did not
provide proof  that he paid it.  (AE A)
Applicant stated he does not know who the creditor is for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d,
but  he  contacted  the  account  holder  in  the allegation  and  was  told  the  debt  had  been
“zeroed out as of 7/18/22.” (AE A) He said he was told the line item would be removed
from his credit report and he considered this line item closed. Regarding the debt in SOR
¶ 1.f, he said that he still needs to resolve this debt and would figure out a way to track
down the creditor and pay the $138. These debts are not resolved. (AE A)
