Applicant  admitted  the  three  allegations  listed  in  the  SOR,  with  explanations.
He  admitted  using  marijuana  from  2009  to  July  2022,  including  use  of  the  drug  after
completing  and  certifying  an  e-QIP  on  November 30,  2021.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  He  observed
that  use  of  the  drug  was  legal  in  his  state.  He  understands  that  marijuana  use  is  not
permitted  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  He  has  not  used  the  drug  since  his
vacation in July 2022. Applicant stated that his doctor condoned use of the drug to ease
depression  and  anger  issues  that  led  to  Applicant’s  opiate  addiction.  The  word
“condone” means forgive. I find the more appropriate word in the context of Applicant’s
answer to this allegation is that his doctor “advocated” the use of marijuana to improve
or diminish Applicant’s depression and anger issues.
Applicant  indicated  that  testing  positive  for  marijuana  in  September  2009,
leading  to  his  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions  United  States  Army
National Guard (in December 2009, was a regrettable event in his life. (SOR 1.b) Until
his discharge, Applicant characterized his performance as top-notch.
Applicant  admitted  using  the  prescription  medications  Percocet,  Vicodin,  and
OxyContin,  not  prescribed  to  him,  from  about  May  2008  to  September  2017.  He  has
received  treatment  since  November  2017  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  opiate
dependence. Though  Applicant’s life  was chaotic during  the  period  of dependence, his
job performance exceeded expectations. He considers himself very honest and patriotic
like his two grandfathers who served in foreign wars. (SOR ¶ 1.c)
Applicant is 41 years old. He was married from June 1996 to October 2010. He
served  in  the  United States Army  (USA)  Air National Guard  (ANG)  from  June  1999  to
December  2009,  when  he  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions
because he tested positive for marijuana in a September 2009 urinalysis. Following his
discharge,  he  purchased  a  home  in  April  2014.  He  has  been  living  with  his  girlfriend
since  September  2017,  and  has  a  two-year-old  son  from  this  relationship.  Since  July
2007,  Applicant  has  been  employed  as  a  master  technician  for  a  defense  contractor.
(Item 3 at 6-18; Item 4 at 1)
Applicant  described  his  purchase  and  use  of  narcotics  and  prescription
medications  not  prescribed  to  him  between  May  2008  and  September  2017.  He
indicated  that  he  never  had  a  security  clearance,  but  the  ANG  processed  security
clearance paperwork. He did not know the outcome of the processing. (Item 1 at 23-28)
On August 9, 2022, Applicant swore that he read the January 10, 2022 PSI and
attested  to  its  accuracy.  Regarding  the  January  14,  2022  PSI  with  Applicant,  the
investigator faxed two specific releases related to Applicant’s treatment. He signed and
returned  the  releases.  Applicant  swore  that  the  additional  information  he  provided  in
response  to  the  interrogatories  was  true  and  correct.  His  signature,  which  appears on
the last page of the interrogatories, is dated August 8, 2022. (Item 4 at 1-11) (Item 4 at
9)
SOR ¶ 1.a –  Applicant used marijuana once or twice a week from 2009 to the
January 8,  2022.  He  ingested  the  drug from either a  pipe  or a  vaporizer.  He  uses  the
drug  to  relax  when  he  is  at  home.  Until  purchase  of  the  drug  became  legal  in  a  state
nearby (State X), he would purchase it from drug sellers or acquaintances. He travels to
State  X  to  purchase  the  drug  legally,  and  uses  it  in  State  Y,  where  recreational
possession and use of marijuana is legal. Applicant omitted the marijuana use from his
November 2021 e-QIP because it was an oversight. (Item 4 at 6-7, 10)
Applicant’s  marijuana  use  has  not  produced  any  legal  or  disciplinary  action,
except  for  the  discharge  in  December  2009.  After  the  OPM  investigator  informed
Applicant in January 2022 that recreational use of marijuana was not legal at the federal
level,  and  could  affect  his  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  indicated  that  he
would  stop  immediately.  There  is  no  indication  that  he  stopped.  Rather,  he  stated  in
August 2022 interrogatory answers that his last use of the drug was on July 30, 2022,
and he had no marijuana in his possession. In his August 2022 answer to the SOR, he
stated  he  would  stop  if  granted  a  security  clearance.  (Item  4  at  6-7,  10;  August  2022
answer to SOR)
SOR  ¶  1.b  - Applicant  was  in  the  ANG  in  September  2009.  Regulations
required drills of one weekend a month and two weeks a year. In September 2009,  his
supervisor  directed  him  to  undergo  a  random  drug  test  required  under  ANG  drug
screening policy.  Applicant  complied.  About  two  weeks  later,  his  captain  informed  him
that  he  would  receive  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions  because  he
tested  positive  for  marijuana.  He  knew  that  his  marijuana  use  could  result  in  his
discharge  from  the  ANG,  but  was  not  thinking  about  the  long-term  consequences  of
illegal  drug  use.  Applicant  has  never  been  subject  to  a  courts-martial  or  other
disciplinary action. (Item 4 at 4-5)
SOR  ¶  1.c  - Applicant  stated  that  he  began  using  Percocet,  Vicodin,  and
OxyContin  in  May  2008  to  “escape  from  life’s  problems  and  to  self-medicate  himself.”
(Item  4  at  5)  He  purchased  the  prescription  medications  from  drug  sellers  or
acquaintances that he could not recall and in amounts that he could not remember. He
used the drugs  alone at home or with one or two friends that he could not  remember.
Occasionally  he  would  not  use  the  drugs  for periods  of  up  to  one year.  The  Applicant
had  no  adverse  reaction  to  the drugs,  but  his  addictive  use  was  a  pivotal factor in  his
divorce, loss of friends, and significant loss of money due to his addiction. He used the
medications until September 2017, when he voluntarily sought treatment. (Item 4 at 5)
After  a  couple  of  unsuccessful  attempts,  Applicant  discovered  an  effective
treatment regimen with a substance abuse counselor in September 2017.  (SOR ¶ 1.c)
The  treatment  consisted  of  group  counseling  one  to  three  times  a  week  in  hour-long
sessions. The counselor persuaded Applicant to become more conscientious about his
treatment. He has taken no opiates since September 2017, when he began taking Sub
Oxone  daily  prescribed  by  the  doctor  who  was  collaborating  with  the  counselor  at  the
time.  Sub  Oxone  is  a  prescription  drug  that  decreases  the  user’s  dependence  on
opiates.  Applicant  stopped  his  treatment  with  the  substance  abuse  counselor  but
continued  his  Sub  Oxone  prescription  and  opiate  addiction  treatment  with  another
doctor  who  could  prescribe  Sub  Oxone  to  him  which  the  substance  abuse  counselor
could not. Since 2017, Applicant has received treatment from the doctor once a month,
then once every six weeks. He claims that he has never been diagnosed by a medical
professional with opiate dependence or addiction. Rather, he has always self-diagnosed
his  addiction.  Given  the  treatment  and  medication  he  has  received  since  September
2017,  it  seems  to  me  that  regardless  of  his  self-diagnosis,  his  treating  doctor  has
essentially confirmed his opiate dependence. In January 2022, he believed his addiction
was under control and he has continued to receive treatment.  He is determined not to
use opiates in the future. (Item 4 at 5-6)
