Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  civilian  analyst  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a
security  clearance.  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  with  explanations.
Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated and adopted
as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant met his wife  in 2012  and  married  in  June  2018.  (GEs 1-2  and  AE  A) He
has  no   children   from   this  marriage.  Applicant’s  wife   was  born  in   Canada   and   still
maintains   her   Canadian   citizenship.  (GEs   1-2;  Tr.   54)   She   immigrated   to   the   United
States  with  her mother  (since  divorced  from  her father)  in  2005  and  became  a  naturalized
U.S. citizen  in June  2019  at the  age  of  16. (GE  1; Tr. 60-61) Applicant’s father served  in
the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  as  a  fighter  pilot  in  both WW  II  and  the  Korean War  and  was killed
in  action.   (GE  1;  Tr.   50,  75-76)  His  surviving   mother  communicates  regularly   with
Applicant. (GE  1; Tr. 91)
Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  2009  from  a  respected  U.S.
university with a dual major in foreign affairs and Chinese language and literature. (GE 1)
He earned a master’s degree in global politics from another highly respected university in
May  2018.  (GE  1;  Tr.  87)  Within  two  years  of  his  graduation  from  his  undergraduate
university, Applicant relocated to China to spend a couple of years (2010-2012) teaching
for a U.S. non-profit educational organization. (GE 1; Tr. 44-48)
Applicant  reported  no  military service  but  cited  his  enrollment  in  a  Navy  Reserve
Officers Training Corps  (NROTC) for the first  two  years (August  2005-April 2007) of  his
university  enrollment.  (GEs  1-2)  Records  confirm  that  he  was  dis-enrolled  from  his
NROTC  program  in  April  2007  for  cited  ineptitude  and  charges  of  making  and  using  a
fake  driver’s  license.  (GEs  1-2)  He  was  discharged  from  the  Navy  under  terms  of  less
than  honorable  conditions  with  a  directive  to  reimburse  the  Navy  for  the  educational
assistance he received.
Since December 2019, Applicant has been employed as an analyst for a defense
contractor.  (GE  1)  His  current  work  assignments  include  research  of  potential  illegal
Chinese influence in the supply chains of DoD programs. (AE A) Previously, he served as
a fellow for a national consulting group  (October 2018-November 2019), and  worked as
an  admissions  assistant  for  his  graduate  school.  (GE  1)  Upon  returning  to  the  United
States  in  2013,  Applicant  continued  working  for  the  same  non-profit  educational
organization in a teaching capacity as a Chinese translator with good Chinese language
and  teaching  skills.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  43-44)  His  employment  assignments  between  June
2017 and October 2018 included internships and research positions with U.S. education
and research organizations. (GEs 1-2)
Applicant has consistently complied with his employers’ requirements for reporting
foreign  contacts  and  pledged  to  continue  doing  so  in  the  future.  (AE  A)  He  has  no
property  interests  or  foreign  bank  accounts  in  China,  and  his  wife  is  willing  to  divest
herself  of  her  inheritance  if  necessary.  (AE  A)  Applicant  has  never  held  a  security
clearance. (GE 1
Applicant’s  immediate and extended family members  residing in Hong Kong
Applicant’s  immediate  family  members  have  deep  roots  in  the  United  States  and
have  devoted their lives  and fortunes  to the security interests of  their country.  (GEs  1-2
and AE A) One of Applicant’s grandfathers served  in the U.S. Army in WW II. (GEs 1-2)
Another grandfather was a U.S. Marine aviator who served in WW II and the Korean War,
where he was shot down and killed. (GEs 1-2) Applicant’s father worked  as a civilian for
the U.S. intelligence community and possessed high-level security clearances. (GEs 1-2)
Applicant’s  father-in-law   (aged   in  his  late   60s)  is  a   citizen   and   resident  of  Hong
Kong.  (GEs  1-2)  He  is  currently   married   to   Applicant’s  stepmother-in-law,  a   citizen   and
resident  of   Hong   Kong   (a  district  of   China).   (GEs  1-2)  Applicant’s   personal  face-to-face
contacts with  his father-in-law  have  been  infrequent (no  more  than  five  to  six  times) since
he  first  met  him  in 2014. (GEs  1-2  and  AE  A;  Tr. 52  and  80) Moreover, of  these  face-to-
face   contacts,  only   one   conversation   involved   a   direct  face-to-face   conversation   (i.e.,
when Applicant asked  for permission to  marry his daughter). (AE  A)
Applicant  knows  his  father-in-law  to  be  a  past  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  of  a
regional retail department store in Hong Kong that maintains trading operations in China.
(GEs  1-2  and  B;  Tr.  5663-64)  His  father-in-law  is  a  past  registered  elector  on  the
wholesale and retail sub-sector of the Hong Kong election committee (a non-government
organization  of  Hong  Kong),  and  a  member  of  the  Shanghai  Hong  Kong,  Macao,  and
Taiwan  Overseas  Chinese  Committee  (part  of  the  Shanghai  Political  Consultative
Conference). (GEs 1-2; Tr. 63-64)
Based   on   Applicant’s  reported   understanding,  his  father-in-law   was  one   of  about
80  foreigners on  this Overseas Chinese  Committee,  which was  designed  to  aid  Shanghai
use  lessons  learned  in  Hong  Kong, Macao,  and  Taiwan. (GE  1  and  AE  C) Applicant cited
one  July   2021   speech   delivered   by   his  father-in-law   that  he   believed   to   be   on   the
importance  of public toilets.  (GEs 1-2;  Tr.  72-73) Applicant  understands that  his father-in-
law  is no  longer associated  with  either his former Hong  Kong  retail  department store, the
Hong   Kong  election   committee, or the   Overseas  Chinese   Committee.   (AEs  D-E;  Tr. 55-
56, 68-69, and  73-74)
Neither  of  Applicant’s  in-laws  has  any  known  affiliations  or  connections  with
China’s  military  or  intelligence  apparatus.  (Tr.  55)  Further,  neither  of  his  in-laws  know
what Applicant does for a living. (Tr. 54)  Presumably, though, intelligence officials of the
PRC possess background data on Applicant’s father-in-law and his past association with
his  retail  store  and  committee  memberships.  Whether  Chinese  military  and  intelligence
officials have and maintain background data on Applicant and his wife is unknown.
Applicant’s stepmother-in-law  is also a  citizen  and  resident  of Hong  Kong. (GEs  1-
2)  She   is  the   second   wife   of   Applicant’s  father-in-law   and  does  not  work  outside   of   the
home. (Tr. 55)  Applicant sees his mother-in-law  once  a  year and  participates in  infrequent
family   group   chats.   (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  62,   84)  Both   in-laws  attended   Applicant’s  wedding   in
2018, and  Applicant’s wife  maintains monthly   contact with  her father. (Tr. 83)   Applicant
last traveled to Hong Kong to see  his in-laws in 2016. (Tr. 81)
Out of  concern for getting  too  close  to  his father-in-law, Applicant maintained  “his
distance”  from   his  father-in-law   during   his  wife’s  skype   calls  spanning   mid-2019-early
2022  and  estimated  seeing  him  “twice over the  last, maybe  six  months” during  his  ”group
text chats  with  them”  and  his wife. (Tr.  83-84)  Despite  Applicant’s limited  contact  with  his
father-in-law   and   stepmother-in-law   since   his  wedding   in  2018,  and   distance   Applicant
enjoys in the  relationship he  has  with  his in-laws, both  Applicant and  his wife  presumably
retain mutual bonds of  affection, influence,  and common interests with  his  in-laws. (Tr. 53-
54,  83-84)  So,  while  Applicant  considers his relationship  with  his  in-laws in Hong  Kong  to
be   “distant,   infrequent,   and   casual”   (Tr.  52),  the   presumption   still   holds  that   he   and   his
wife,  who   maintains   monthly   contact   with   her  father,   retain   mutual  bonds  of  affection,
influence, and common interests with her father and stepmother.
Hong Kong’s historical background
Hong  Kong’s  history  dates  back  over  five  millennia.  It  developed  strong  trading
relationships  with  Britain  in  1842  (following  the  First  Opium  War)  under  the  Treaty  of
Nanking.  See  Background  Note:  Hong  Kong  SAR,  supra,  at  2.  Britain  was  granted  a
perpetual  lease  on  the  Kowloon  Peninsula  under  the  1860  Convention  of  Beijing,  and
Britain expanded its control over the surrounding area under a 99-year lease of the New
Territories in 1898. See id.
In  the  late  19th  and  early  20th  centuries,  Hong  Kong  developed  as a  warehousing
and  distribution  center for British  trade  with  southern China.  See  Background  Note: Hong
Kong,  SAR,  supra).   Heavy  migration   to   Hong   Kong   occurred   after  the   Communist
takeover  of  mainland   China   in  1949.   Hong   Kong   achieved   considerable  economic
success  as   a   British   colony   in  the   post-1949   period   as  a   manufacturing,  commercial,
finance,  and   tourism   center.  High   life   expectancies,   literacy,  per  capita   income,  and   a
confluence  of other socioeconomic  indicators  serve  to  illustrate  Hong  Kong’s measurable
socioeconomic achievements.
Hong Kong’s reversion
Since   July   1,  1997,  Hong   Kong   has  been   a   Special  Administrative   Region   of
China. This is important to note because of the generally recognized heightened risks that
are associated  with  China, and  the  unilaterally  imposed  citizenship  and  residency  status
on   Applicant  and   her  parents   as   birth   residents  and   citizens  of   Hong   Kong   before   the
reversion.  See   Background   Note:  Hong   Kong   SAR,  supra.  This  does  not  mean   that  the
U.S. Government  will not offer consular services to  dual nationals who  use  their  non-U.S.
passports in Hong  Kong  and  other sectors of   China.  However, because  China  does not
recognize  dual citizenship under its nationality  law, use  of  other than  a  U.S. passport to
enter  China   can   simply   increase   the   difficulties  of   consular  assistance   for  any   dual
national who is arrested under such circumstances. See  id.
Hong  Kong  today  has  a  population  of  over  7  million  (95  per  cent  of  which  are
Chinese), and is one of the most densely populated regions of the world. China has given
Hong  Kong  considerable  autonomy  over  its  domestic  affairs.  China  has  retained
responsibility  and  control  over  foreign  and  defense  affairs.  State  Department  records
confirm  that  China  has  taken  an  increasingly  active  oversight  role  over  Hong  Kong’s
political developments. See  Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra, at 2-3.
Still,  both  the  Sino-British  joint  declaration  (1984)  and  the  Basic  Law  provides
political  safeguards  to  ensure  that  Hong  Kong  retains  its  own  political,  economic,  and
judicial  systems  and  unique  status  for  at  least  50  years  after  reversion.  These  legal
documents  permitted  Hong  Kong  to  continue  to  participate  in  international  conventions
and  organizations  under  the  name  of  “Hong  Kong,  China.  See  Background  Note:  Hong
Kong SAR, supra, at 2.
Hong Kong, with its  quasi autonomy, remained for years a free and open society
where human rights are respected (albeit less so now under closer Chinese controls and
monitoring), courts are independent, and there are established traditions of respect for the
rule of law. See Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra, at 3.  Hong Kong still retains a
common  law  system  from  its  time  as  a  British  colony  before  1997  and  maintains
extradition agreements with more than a dozen countries, including the United States, the
United Kingdom, and Singapore. China, by contrast, operates a civil-law system.
Citizens  of  Hong  Kong  are  limited,  however,  in  their  ability  to  change  their
government,  and  the  legislature  is  limited  in  its  power  to  change  government  policies.
See  Background  Note:  Hong  Kong  SAR,  supra.  Moreover,  China  still  retains  oversight
and  ultimate  veto  authority  over  all  of  Hong  Kong’s  economic  and  political  decision-
making.  Any  changes  in  Hong  Kong’s  Basic  Law  (such  as  to  achieve  full  universal
suffrage)  will  require  approval  by  Hong  Kong’s  chief  executive,  at  least  a  two  thirds
approval  by  the  Legislative  Counsel  (Legco),  and  then  China’s  National  People’s
Congress Standing Committee (NPSCS), which is by no means assured. See id.
Because  Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  stepmother-in-law  are  still  citizens  and
residents  of  Hong  Kong  with  unilaterally  imposed  Chinese  citizenship  by  China’s
immigration law, China’s system, its respect for human rights and the rule of law, and its
collection activities that extend throughout its maintained intelligence operations in Hong
Kong  and  Macau,  become  quite  relevant  to  evaluating  any  potential  security  risks
associated with Applicant’s in-laws. Concerns are also extended to limitations on freedom
of  the  press  and  expression,  academic  freedom,  arbitrary  detention,  aggressive  police
tactics that hamper freedom, trafficking in persons, and societal prejudice against certain
ethnic minorities. See id., at 3-4.
United States-Hong Kong relations
Hong  Kong,  as  a  Special  Administrative  Region  of  China,  who  bears  full
responsibility  for  its  foreign  relations  and  defense,  is  a  customs  territory  and  economic
sector  that  operates  separately  from  the  rest  of  China  in  matters  that  pertain  to  its
customs zone. See Fact Sheet, U.S. Relations with Hong Kong, U.S. Dept. of State (July
2018).  Operating  in  its  sphere  of  reserved  authority,  it  is  able  to  enter  into  international
agreements on its own behalf in commercial, economic, and in certain legal areas. See id.
U.S.  policy   toward   Hong   Kong   is  set  forth   in   the   U.S.-Hong   Kong   Policy   Act  of
1992   (Policy   Act),  whose   stated   purpose   is  to   promote   Hong   Kong’s  prosperity,
autonomy,  and   way   of  life.  See   Hong  Kong  Policy  Act   Report,  U.S.  Dept. of  State   (May
2018);  Fact  Sheet,  U.S.  Relations  with   Hong   Kong,  supra.  Under  the   Policy   Act,   the
United   States  supports  Hong   Kong’s  autonomy   under  the   “One   Country,  Two   Systems”
framework  by   concluding   and   implementing   bilateral  agreements;   promoting   trade   and
investment;  broadening   law   enforcement  cooperation,  pursuing   educational,  academic,
and   cultural  ties,  supporting   high-level  visits  of   U.S.  officials;  and   serving   the   large
community  of  U.S. firms, residents,  and  visitors. See  id; U.S. Relations with  Hong  Kong,
supra.
Hong  Kong’s  one  country,  two  systems  framework  was  established  in  the  Basic
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  China,  as  enacted  by  the
National  People’s  Congress.  See  id.  The  Act  establishes  the  policy  of  the  U.S.
government  to  treat  Hong  Kong  as  a  non-sovereign  entity  distinct  from  China  for  the
purposes  of  U.S.  domestic  law,  based  on  the  principles  of  the  1984  Sin-British  Joint
Declaration.  See  Hong  Kong  Policy  Act  Report,  supra;  Fact  Sheet,  U.S.  Relations  with
Hong Kong, supra.
Hong  Kong  is  active  in  counter-terrorism  and  counter-proliferation  initiatives  and
remains  an  important  partner  in  efforts  to  eliminate  funding  for  terrorist  networks,  exact
strategic  trade  controls,  and  combat  money  laundering.  See  Fact  Sheet,  U.S.  Relations
with Hong Kong, supra; Hong Kong Policy Act Report, supra, at 2-5. In March 2014, Hong
Kong  passed  legislation  allowing  it  to  adopt  the  most  recent  globally  recognized
standards  for exchange  of  tax  information,  and  both  countries  have  since  concluded  an
international  governmental  agreement  under  the  U.S.  Foreign  Account  Tax  Compliance
Act. See id.
Currently,  the  United States maintains a  strong trade  surplus  with  Hong Kong.  In
2018,  it  had  a  trade  surplus  of  $32.6  billion  in  2017  and  31,14,  billion  in  2018,  which
represent the largest single trade surpluses of any U.S. trading partner. See Fact Sheet,
U.S.  Relations   with   Hong   Kong,  supra;  Trade   in   Goods   with   Hong   Kong,  supra;   Hong
Kong  Policy Act  Report,  supra,  at.  2. Trade  balance  reports confirm  that two-way  trade  in
goods and  services totaled  an  estimated  $68.9  billion  in  2017.  (id.)  U.S. exports  of goods
and  services to  Hong  Kong  in 2015  are reported  to  have  supported  an  estimated  188,000
U.S. jobs (latest data available), all based on  free market  principles. (id.)
Hong   Kong   is   a   major  participant   in  international  organizations.  See   Fact   Sheet,
U.S.  Relations  with   Hong   Kong,  supra,  at  2.  Both   the   United   States  and   Hong   Kong
belong   to   the  World  Trade   Organization, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  forum, and
Financial Action  Task  Force.   Hong  Kong  remains an  effective  champion  of free  markets
and  the reduction  of trade  barriers. See id; Hong  Kong Policy Act Report, supra, at 2-3.
China’s  country status
Established  in  1949,  China  with  over  1.3  billion  people  is  the  world’s  most
populous  country.  Today  it  continues  to  undergo  rapid  economic  and  social  change.
Political power, however, remains centralized in the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) with
little indication of any change in the foreseeable future.
China, with its 70.8 million square miles of land space, is authoritarian in structure
and  ideology  and  possesses  increasingly  sophisticated  military  forces  that  continue  to
transform  itself  from  a  land-based  military  power  to  a  smaller,  more  mobile,  high  tech
military that eventually will be capable of  mounting limited operations beyond its coastal
waters. See Background Note: China, supra, at 14-16.
While  not  a  country  historically  acclaimed  to  be  hostile  to  U.S.  persons  and
interests, China maintains a relationship that is much more competitive than cooperative.
China operates a large and sophisticated intelligence bureau, entitled the Ministry of State
Security  (MSS).  These  operations  use  clandestine  agents  to  collect  intelligence  on
Western  consortia  investing  in  China  who  are  suspected  of  involvement  in  attempts  to
democratize  China,  as  well  as  other  pro-democracy  groups  thought  to  be  engaging  in
anti-communist  activities.  See  Administrative  Notice  Request,  supra,  at  3-4;  Annual
Report to Congress: Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic
of China, at 150-151, U.S. Dept. of Defense (September 2020)
Based  on  past  reports  to  Congress,  China  is  considered  one  of  the  most  active
collectors  of  U.S.  economic  and  proprietary  information.  See  Administrative  Notice
Request, supra, at 3-4; Annual Report to Congress: Military and Security Developments
Involving the People’s Republic of China, supra; U.S. Dept. of Defense (September 2020)
China  uses  its  intelligence  services  to  gather  information  about  the  US  and  to  obtain
advanced  technologies.  See  id.  China  actively  monitors  international  communications
satellites  from  maintained  intercept  facilities,  in  addition  to  collecting  information  on  US
military operations and exercises.
Examples  of  Chinese  economic  espionage  are  cited  in  the  Annual  Report  to
Congress  Military  and  Security  Developments  Involving  the  People’s  Republic  of  China,
supra. Most of the examples of illegally exported technology to  China involved high tech
equipment  and  devices  used  in  missile  and  aircraft  guidance  systems,  highly  sensitive
weapons  parts,  infrared  cameras  and  missile  microchips.  See  case  illustrations  cited  in
Administrative Notice Request, supra, at 3-4.
As a corollary of its authoritarian roots, China has never been known for a positive
human rights record among Western nations and international human rights groups. Part
of this can be explained in terms of China’s lack of any cognizable tradition for respect for
developing democracies and the rule of law.
State  Department  country  reports  on  China  cite  the  country’s  poor  human  rights
record.  Its  noted  historical  abuses  include  the  suppression  of  political  dissent,  arbitrary
arrest  and  detention,  forced  confessions,  torture,  and  mistreatment  of  prisoners.  See
Administrative  Notice  Request,  supra,  at  5-6;  2020;  Human  Rights  Report:  China
(includes Tibet, Hong Kong, and Macau), U.S. Department of State (March 2021).
Of  growing  concern  to  U.S.  security  interests  are  the  State  Department’s  latest
reports  of  increased  high  profile  cases  in  China  involving  the  monitoring,  harassment,
detention,  arrest,  and  imprisonment  of  journalists,  writers,  activists,  and  defense  lawyers
seeking  to  exercise  their  law-protected  rights  and  freedoms.  See  Administrative  Notice
Request,  supra,  at  6;  Hong  Kong  Travel  Advisory,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (June  2021).  The
State Department cites a comprehensive, credible accounting of all those killed, missing,
or  detained,  reported  incidents  of  deaths  in  custody,  disappearance,  torture,  and  other
cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment. See id.
China’s  efforts  to  acquire  sensitive  technology  (including  technology  having  dual
use  capabilities)  pose  a  continuing  challenge  to  U.S.  counterintelligence  measures.
Recent  indictments  of  Chinese  citizens  for  espionage  have  served  to  highlight  China’s
spying activities in the United States. See Administrative Notice  Request, supra, at 4-5
Better  U.S.  export  controls  can  be  effective  only  if  they  are  multilateral  in  scope.
Without effective dual use export controls in place, China can be expected to continue to
acquire  dual  use  technologies  with  military  potential  through  the  U.S.  and  other  source
countries.
Endorsements, evaluations, and awards
Applicant  is  well  regarded  by  his  managers,  supervisors,  coworkers  past  and
present, friends, and U.S. DoD customers who know him and have worked with him. (AE
A;  Tr.  25-27,  34-36)  All  of  these  character  references  credit  Applicant  with  being  hard
working, patient with others,  reliable, and trustworthy.  (AE A; Tr. 25-27, 34-36) Together,
they  characterize  Applicant  as  a  person  of  integrity  who  can  always  be  counted  on  for
support and fulfillment of his client-related responsibilities.
Applicant’s  performance  evaluations  credit  him  with  high  marks  for  productivity,
dependability, results, and teamwork. (AE A) His awards include a U.S. State department
certificate  of  appreciation  and  recognition  of  academic  excellence  in  his  master’s  work.
(AE A)
10
