Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 62  years old.  He earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in 2009  and  a  master’s
degree  in  2014. He  served  in  the  military from  1979  to  1999  and  retired  in  the  paygrade
E-6. He served  in combat operations in  Operation  Desert Storm  and  Grenada. He married
for the  third  time  in 2015. He  has  no  children.  He has  worked  for federal contractors  since
approximately 2008  and  held a security clearance  during  this time.  (Transcript (Tr.)  19-
23, 51-52; AE L)
In approximately 2016, Applicant agreed to financially help his lifelong friend (LF)
of more than 50 years, who was starting a lawn service business. Applicant was not a
business partner. Because of their friendship, he was confident that LF was trustworthy
and reliable and would repay him. Applicant used cash advances from credit cards and
loans to help his friend purchase equipment for the business and for operating expenses.
LF was making payments to Applicant until approximately 2017 or 2018 when he stopped.
They did not have a written agreement regarding repayment of the loans or credit card
expenditures. Applicant knew he was responsible for paying the amounts owed on the
credit cards and loans. He has been unable to locate LF since about 2018. None of his
family know where he is located. (Tr. 23-27)
Applicant  was  making  regular  timely  payments  on  the  credit  cards  and  loans
alleged in the SOR. None of his financial obligations were delinquent. His payment history
is supported by entries on his credit report that show he was current in his payments until
2019. He decided because he had a lot of debt he wanted to use the expertise of a credit
resolution service. In May 2019, he contracted for the services of CLG who promised him
to help resolve all of his debts. He would make monthly payments to CLG, who would
then negotiate and settle his debts. CLG advised Applicant to stop making payments on
all of his debts, even though they were not in a default status. Applicant followed their
directions,  believing  CLG  was  operating  in  good  faith  and  would  use  his  payments  to
settle  his  debts.  Applicant  made  monthly  payments  of  $843  from  May  2019  to
approximately  September  2021.  He  paid  approximately  $24,447  to  CLG.  He  credibly
testified that during that time, CLG settled one debt for approximately $1,000. (Tr. 27-32;
GE 3; AE A)
Applicant admitted he should have been more diligent in researching the  validity
and  performance  of  CLG.  When  he  did,  he  realized  it  had  horrendous  ratings  and
comments about its service and consumer reputation. He provided copies of complaints
made  on  the  website  to  the  Better Business  Bureau.  They  all  corroborate  that  CLG  is
unscrupulous. Applicant terminated his agreement with them in October 2021 and was
reimbursed approximately $6,745. (Tr. 27-30; AE G, I)
After  Applicant  terminated  the  agreement  with  CLG,  he  contacted  the  creditors
who  owned  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  to  discuss  making  payments  or  negotiating
settlement  agreements.  Applicant  settled  the  debt  to  the  creditor  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  He
provided supporting documentation. (Tr. 30-31, 33; AE J, K)
Applicant was notified by the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.b that it was seeking a judgment
against  him  for the  debt.  He  hired  an  attorney  to  attempt  to  settle  the  debt  before  the
judgment  was  entered,  but  was  untimely.  His  attorney  has  sent  a letter to  the  creditor
attempting to make payment arrangements to settle the debt, but the creditor has been
unresponsive. He is actively attempting to resolve the debt. (Tr. 34-39; AE B, C, H)
Applicant  has  repeatedly  contacted  the  creditor  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  to  make  payment
arrangements  to  settle  the  debt.  His  calls  are  directed  to  an  automated  response  that
advises him that his debt has been sold to a collection company, and he will receive a
letter in the next two to three weeks regarding the debt. He credibly testified that he has
contacted the creditor at least ten times and gets the same message and can never talk
to a person. Applicant is attempting to resolve the debt. (Tr. 40-41)
Applicant negotiated a settlement with the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.d. He will make six
monthly payments. He provided proof that he has made the first payment. This debt was
for a loan he secured for LF. (Tr. 41-46: AE N, O)
Applicant contacted the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.e about five months ago to discuss
settling the debt. The creditor only had an answer machine, and he was unable to talk to
anyone. He plans to continue to make payments and resolve his other debts, so he can
be in a better position to make a settlement offer with this creditor in the future.  He will
continue to attempt to resolve the debt. (Tr. 46-47)
Applicant paid the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f. His stepdaughter had his permission to write
a check on his account. The check was returned because the bank believed she was an
unauthorized user. When he contacted the bank, he was told it would process the check
again, but it did not. Applicant paid the debt when he learned it had not been processed.
He provided supporting documents. The debt is resolved. (Tr. 55-57; AE D, E)
Applicant  maintains  a  detailed  budget  and  provided  a  copy.  He  lives  within  his
means and has no other outstanding debts. He pays the balance on his credit cards each
month. He made regular payments on his student loans until they were deferred due to
the pandemic. Applicant  takes full responsibility  for resolving all of his debts. Although
these debts were incurred to help a friend, he understands that he must pay them. He
credibly testified that he believed CLG was going to help him resolve his debts, but instead
put him in a worse financial position. (Tr. 48-56; AE M)
