The SOR alleges under Guideline E that Applicant received a letter of reprimand
in February 1999 (¶ 1.a) and was charged with battery and fighting in public in May 2002
(¶ 1.c). His employment with different federal contractors was terminated in March 2001
(¶ 1.b), June 2013 (¶ 1.d), February 2015 (¶ 1.e), September 2018 (¶ 1.f), and November
2019 (¶ 1.g). It further alleges that he falsified his 2019 SCA when he deliberately denied
and failed to disclose that he was terminated from his employment as alleged in ¶¶ 1.d,
1.e, and 1.f (¶¶ 1.h, 1.i, and 1.j).  Under Guideline K, the SOR alleges that he failed to
comply with rules and regulations for handling protected information as alleged under ¶
1.f (¶ 2.a).
In his answer, Applicant denied all of the factual allegations in the SOR, except for
¶  1.d,  which  he  admitted  with  comments.  Applicant’s  SOR  admission  and  those  at his
hearing are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough review of all the record
evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant,  70,  graduated  from  a  military academy  in  1974.  He  served  on  active
duty as an officer between 1974 and December 1979, and was honorably discharged with
the rank of captain (O-3). (Tr. 9) He was granted a security clearance while in the military
academy in 1971. (Tr. 16) As an officer, he held a clearance during his  service, which
was  continued  or  renewed  throughout  his  many  years  working  for  multiple  federal
contractors. He has a long history of working for federal contractors since 1981. (AE 1)
He testified that during his career he has held positions of trust, and clearances at the
secret level and higher. He completed a master of science degree in computer science in
1980, and a master in business administration (MBA) in finance in 1986. (Tr. 9) He has
never married and has no children. (Tr. 23)
Applicant testified he has done well in his areas of expertise. He believes that he
has  established  a  good  reputation  and  is  respected  by  peers  and  employers  for  his
acumen and ability to resolve complicated issues within his areas of expertise. (AE A)
Applicant  received  a  letter  of  reprimand  in  February  1999,  for  unprofessional
conduct and demonstrating poor judgment in the workplace. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He denied he
ever  received  the  letter  of  reprimand.  At  hearing,  when  confronted  with  the  letter  of
reprimand  bearing  his  signature,  he  claimed  he  forgot  about  it  because  the  incident
occurred 23 years ago. (Tr. 47 – 48; GE 4)
Applicant denied that he was terminated from his employment with different federal
contractors in March 2001 (due to argumentative behavior towards his workers (SOR ¶
1.b)),  June  2013  (inaccurate  time  cards  (SOR  ¶  1.d)),  February  2015  (unprofessional
conduct and insubordination (SOR ¶ 1.e)), September 2018 (attempted security violations
(SOR ¶ 1.f)), and November 2019 (unprofessional conduct (SOR ¶ 1.g)).
Applicant  claimed  that  he  was  never  told  he  was  terminated  from  any  of  these
employment positions, except for the termination alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d. He claimed he
was  informed  that  he  was  being  laid  off.  He  argued  that  he  could  not  have  been
terminated because he was allowed to file for and received unemployment benefits from
the state. He contends that if he had been terminated, under state law he would have
been precluded from receiving unemployment benefits. He failed to provide documentary
evidence  to  show  he  received  unemployment  benefits  after  any  of  the  alleged
terminations.  Documentary  evidence  in  the  record  and  his  testimony  show  that  he
received unemployment benefits even though he was terminated from his employment in
2013 and 2019. (GE 7; Tr. 85)
Applicant admitted he was convicted of a misdemeanor battery charge and fighting
in public in May 2002 (SOR ¶ 1.c). He slapped and pushed  a woman at a gas station
when she approached him while screaming at him. (Tr. 28)
Concerning SOR ¶ 1.d, Applicant admitted that he submitted inaccurate time cards
in violation of his company’s policy. However, he denied that he submitted the inaccurate
time cards to defraud the Government. He claimed that he only charged for the hours he
worked.  He  averred  that  he  worked  longer  hours  during the  week,  and on  Fridays,  he
would take off early. However, he submitted inaccurate time cards showing that he was
working eight hours every day. He submitted no documentary evidence to show that he
asked for and received permission to submit inaccurate time cards or to work a flexible
schedule. (Tr. 29 – 31; 60 - 61) Applicant admitted that, although his employer terminated
his employment, he filed for and the state paid him unemployment benefits. (Tr. 61)
Applicant testified:
I figured  it  wouldn't hurt anything  to  cut a  little  time  off  for  Friday. And  let's
face  it, I'm a professional. I'm  not  an hourly  employee.  Okay?  So,  as far as
I'm  concerned, as  long  as I put in honestly, the  number hours I work per
week,  which days I  work them  and  all, that's my  business,  not theirs. I'm
supposed   to   have   flex   time.  And   they   promised   me   that.   And   from   here,
they're telling me  that  I don't get it.  (Tr. 31)
Applicant admitted that in March 2014, his employer gave him a written warning
for viewing pornographic and dating websites using his company-issued laptop and for
receiving personal phone calls from recruiters during work hours, in violation of company
policy. (SOR ¶ 1.e) Applicant claimed that at the time his employer issued him the phone
and the laptop, his employer told him he could use both the computer and phone freely
for his personal use. He complained that his company did not inform him that it would
monitor his use of the equipment, and that it reneged on the promise that he could use
the equipment freely. (Tr. 64  –  65) He admitted he visited dating sites, denied he was
watching pornography (although, some of the dating sites showed women in bikinis), and
admitted  that  he  would  get  calls  during  duty  hours  from  recruiters  about  possible  job
opportunities. (Tr. 31 – 33)
terminated
Applicant  was
from  his  employment
for
unprofessional  conduct  and  insubordination.  (GE  7;  Tr.  68)  He  explained  that  his
supervisor sent him a nasty email criticizing his work that was shared with others in the
company.  Applicant  replied  with  a  nasty  email  of  his  own,  also  shared  with  others,
correcting  and  confronting  the  supervisor.  (Tr.  32  - 33)  The  letter  or  termination
specifically  informs  Applicant  that  he  was  eligible  to  apply  for  unemployment
compensation benefits. (GE 7)
in  February  2015
Applicant admitted that his employer removed him from working on a contract after
the  customer  asked  the  employer  to  do  so  in  September  2018.  He  denied  that  his
employer informed him of the reasons for his removal. (SOR ¶ 1.f) Applicant denied that
he asked to take home classified software or to use classified software in an unclassified
desk  environment.  (Tr.  33  –  38)  Notwithstanding,  the  Defense  Security  Service
Suspicions Contact Report (GE 9), indicates that Applicant’s team members expressed
concerns about his handling of classified information several times.
Applicant was terminated from his employment with a federal contractor because
of unprofessional conduct in November 2019.  (GE 8 –  termination letter) He explained
that he was in the company building working late at night. A woman he did not know and
had not seen before approached him and spoke to him. He ignored her and walked away.
When confronted, he told her that he believed she had been talking on the phone and not
to him. He then told her that it was late, that he was going home, and walked away. The
next day, his employer informed him that he had been terminated. (Tr. 39 – 40; GE 8)
Applicant  denied   that   he   falsified   his  2019   SCA  when   he   answered   “No”  to
questions in  Section  13A-Employment Activities,  and  failed  to  disclose  that he  received  a
written  warning  and  was terminated  from  his  employment,  as  alleged  in  ¶¶  1.d,  1.e, and
1.f.  (¶¶  1.h, 1.i, and  1.j).  (Tr.  40  –  45)  I find  that  Applicant  deliberately  falsified  his 2019
SCA when he answered “No” to the questions and failed to disclose that he received a
letter  of  reprimand  in  1999,  a  written  warning  in  2014,  and  was  terminated  from  his
employment in 2013, 2015, and 2018.
Under Guideline K, SOR ¶ 2.a alleged that Applicant failed to comply with rules
and regulations for handling protected information as alleged under SOR ¶ 1.f. The record
evidence  is  insufficient  to  establish  that  Applicant  failed  to  comply  with  rules  and
regulations  for  handling  protected  information.  GE  9  states  that  Applicant  “has  not  yet
committed  a  security  violation  because  team  members have  stopped  violations  before
they occurred,” and that they often have to remind him of security requirements. (GE 9)
The  main  concern  stated  in  GE  9  –  the  heart  of  the  document  –  appears  to  be
management dissatisfaction  with  Applicant’s  work performance, general behavior, self-
management  skills,  and  lack  of  technical  skills.  All  of  which  should  have  been  better
handled  under  the  human  resources  umbrella,  either  for  the  federal  contractor  or  the
Government.
Notwithstanding, insider threat is defined as the threat that an insider will use his
or  her  authorized  access,  wittingly  or  unwittingly,  to  do  harm  to  the  agency’s  mission,
resources, personnel, facilities, information, equipment, networks, or systems. This threat
can manifest as damage to the agency through, among other things, as the unauthorized
disclosure of information. (See DOD Directive 5205.16, The DOD Insider Threat Program
(September 30, 2014, Incorporating Change 2, August 28, 2017)) Based on the evidence
presented, Applicant may unwittingly disclose classified information.
Applicant noted that he has a history of over 40 years of keeping and protecting
Government’s  secrets  and  not  disclosing  classified  information.  He  claimed  he  has
always  been  very  careful  to  protect  and  secure  classified  information.  He  follows
established  procedures  and  exceeds  the  protection  standards  put  in  place  by  the
Government to ensure the protection of classified information. He stated that there are no
leaks attributed to him. (Tr. 45, 86)
Applicant highlighted his time in the service and his work for federal contractors.
He loves the United States and has supported this country and protected the  country’s
secrets since he was 18. He believes he should be allowed to have a clearance at any
level. He also believes that he has earned a clearance and should keep it. He does not
consider himself an insider threat. (Tr. 87, 92- 93)
