Applicant  is  59   years  old   and   was  born  in  South   Korea.  He  was  adopted   by
relatives in the  United  States  when  he  was four years old and  became  a  naturalized  U.S.
citizen  at age  eight.  His adoptive  father was a  member  of the  U.S. Army,  and  Applicant
moved  with  his family  to  various locations around the  world. He received  his high  school
diploma  in  1981  at  an  American  high  school  in Germany.  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.
Army  in 1984  at  the  age  of 21. He  honorably  retired  in  2006  with  the  rank of sergeant first
class.  (Answer at  3;  Tr.  at  17-23,  40; GE  1  at 1-2, 17-20, 21-25; GE  2  at 9, 16;  GE  3  at  8-
10.)
Applicant married in 1984, but that marriage ended in divorce in 2007. Later the
same year he married his current wife. Both wives were born in South Korea. His first wife
became a naturalized U.S. citizen. Applicant and his first wife had one child, who is now
27 years old. His second wife is a citizen of South Korea. Applicant asserts that his wife
is in the process of obtaining resident alien status in the U.S., though as of the hearing
date, she has not completed the process. Applicant has two children with his second wife,
ages 12 and 14. All three of his children were born in South Korea and are U.S. citizens.
His two youngest children are also South Korean citizens by operation of South Korean
law. They reside with their parents  in South Korea, and they attend DOD schools. His
oldest child received a college degree in the United States and presently lives and works
in the U.S. Applicant intends on having his two youngest children attend college in the
United States, specifically in the State of Texas. He and his wife plan to retire in Texas
as  well.  He  is also  considering  moving  to  Texas  earlier  and  working  at  his  current  job
remotely from Texas. (Answer at 3; Tr. at 17-23, 43-44; GE 1 at 1-2, 17-20, 21-25, 43;
GE 2 at 9, 16; GE 3 at 8-10.)
Applicant  first  received  a  Secret  security  clearance  in 1984  in connection  with  his
military   service.   His  most  recent   reinvestigation   was   in   2011.  He   has  worked   in   South
Korea  for  two  U.S.  defense  contractors  since  his discharge  from  the  Army   (2006-2017
and  2017  to  present). He is currently  working  as a  manager.  He  seeks to  receive  eligibility
for a  Top  Secret security  clearance  in connection  with  his employment.  He has resided  in
South Korea since at least 2006. (Tr. at 29-31; GE  1  at 12-13; GE 2 at 10-11; GE 3 at 8-
9.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline B,  Foreign Influence)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has foreign connections that may create a security concern. The SOR alleges
in three subparagraphs that Applicant’s wife and her parents are citizens and residents
of South Korea. In his Answer Applicant admitted these factual allegations, denied that
the facts raise security concerns, and provided detailed explanations.
Applicant’s wife was born in South Korea in 1975. Her father and mother were born
in South Korea in 1945. Her father served  in the South Korean Army for 25 years and
retired  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant  colonel.  He  then  worked  for  the  Korean  Institute  for
Defense  Analysis,  or  KIDA,  for  about  ten  years  until  his  retirement  in  2006.  Applicant
described the KIDA as a think tank for the South Korean Army. Applicant’s father-in-law
is presently 77  years old.  His mother-in-law  is a  retired  nurse.  For a  period  during the
Vietnam War, she  served  as  a  nurse  in  the  South  Korean  Army  and  was  deployed  to
Vietnam. She later worked as a nurse in a civilian hospital in South Korea. Applicant has
regular contact with  his wife’s parents  over the phone, and his family visits his in-laws
every couple of months and during Korean holidays. His parents-in-law live about three
hours from Applicant’s residence in South Korea. (Answer at 6; Tr. at 23-29, 58-59; GE 3
at 11.)
Applicant owns no property in South Korea and has no expectation that his wife
will inherit anything from her parents. Applicant’s sole  sources of income are his salary
from his U.S. DOD contractor, his U.S. military retirement payments, and his Veteran’s
Administration  disability  benefits.  He  is  financially  secure.  His  parents-in-law  are
financially independent. He provides no financial support to them. (Tr. at 27-32.)
South Korea
Applicant has contacts with South Korea. Accordingly, it is appropriate to look at
the current conditions in that country. South Korea is a constitutional democracy; whose
authorities generally respect the human rights of its citizens. Human rights concerns exist,
particularly  in  the  areas  of  restrictions  of  freedom  of  expression  and  the  government’s
responses to violence against women. Civilian authorities maintain effective control over
the  country’s  security  forces,  and  the  government  utilizes  effective  mechanisms  to
investigate and punish any abuses of power. South Korea and companies in South Korea
are active collectors of U.S. industrial information and engage in industrial espionage, as
shown by the administrative notice documents in the record. However, the record does
not  demonstrate  that  the  South  Korean  government  seeks  to  exert  pressure  on  U.S.
citizens to collect sensitive information. Finally, a U.S. Government website describes the
close  and  continuing  relationship  between  the  U.S.  military  and  South  Korea  and  its
military. Large numbers of U.S. ground, air, sea, and special operations forces cooperate
jointly with the South Korean military under a common command to protect the security
of South Korea. (AN-I; www.usfk.mil.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to file his Federal income tax returns for tax
years  (TY)  2017,  2018,  and  2019,  as  required.  In  his  Answer  Applicant  denies  the
allegations  though  he  admits  that  he  failed  to  request  extensions  of  time  to  file.  He
provided IRS tax account transcripts for the three years in dispute. The evidence reflects
that  Applicant  filed  his  TY  2017  tax  return  on  April  22,  2019,  over  one  year  late.  The
Government issued a refund of $4,200 to Applicant. In October 2020 the IRS prepared a
substitute  tax  return  due  to  Applicant’s  failure  to  file  his  TY  2018  return  on  time.  He
ultimately  filed  a  return  in  about  February  2021.  Applicant  had  a  negative  balance  of
$1,416 for this tax year, indicating that he owed no additional taxes. Applicant also filed
his TY 2019 tax return late. The account transcript reflects a filing date of June 2021. The
IRS issued a refund to Applicant for that tax year in the amount of $2,468. (AE A through
AE C.)
At the hearing Applicant blamed his untimely filing of his Federal tax returns on his
ignorance and neglect. He also said that he experienced difficulties receiving the requisite
paperwork from his employer after he changed employers in 2017 and with his wife’s tax
identification  number  (TIN),  which  had  expired.  The  renewal  of  her  TIN  required
documentation and he had difficulty communicating with the IRS. Also, his job change
required  that he  relocate  his family  within  South Korea,  and  he  had  to  withdraw funds
from his 401k account to finance the relocation. That withdrawal further complicated his
tax returns and delayed his preparation of the returns. Based upon his past experience
with his taxes, he knew that he did not owe the IRS any additional taxes, so he did not
believe a delay in filing would be a problem. He admitted that he was ignorant of the legal
requirements relating to the timely filing of tax returns. He had no intention not to file his
returns, and in fact, he did file his returns. (Tr. at 33-39, 62.)
In  late  Spring  2022,  Applicant  retained  counsel  in  connection  with  the  instant
security clearance proceeding. His counsel advised him of the importance of timely filing
of  his  tax  returns,  especially  as  a  holder  of  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  now  fully
appreciates the importance of timely filing his tax returns. He intends to file his future tax
returns as required by law. As of the close of the record, Applicant had filed all the required
Federal income tax returns and did not owe any Federal taxes. (Tr. at 49-57, 59-60.)
