Applicant is 47 years old. She married in 1998 and was divorced in 2016. Applicant
and  her  ex-husband  have  three  adult  children.  She  previously  held  a  DOD  security
clearance from approximately 2002 through 2009 while employed as a civilian for the U.S.
Army. She suffered a stroke in 2009, returned to work, and then suffered a relapse. Her
health issues caused her to quit her job. In 2010, she started a business of screen printing,
graphic design, and embroidery. The business was successful and operated until 2016,
when she and her husband divorced. Since August 2020, she has been employed for a
government contractor as a technical writer. Her annual salary is approximately $42,000.
(AE G; GE 1; Tr. 38-39, 80-81)
Applicant experienced financial problems that caused her and her spouse to file
for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in September 2014. She testified the reason for the bankruptcy
was  due  to  overspending  by  her  husband.  Their  scheduled  claims  of  $324,555  were
discharged in December 2014 by the bankruptcy court. (¶ 1.a) (Tr. 24-28, 37; GE 2; SOR
Answer)
Applicant  testified  that she  and  her  husband separated  in  November 2015,  and
their divorce became final in 2016. At that time, she believed her finances were good and
she  purchased  a  new  car  in  2016. She  stopped  operating  her  business  in  2016  even
though she said it was a very profitable business. She relied on spousal support and child
support to finance her living expenses. Her ex-spouse paid child support but he did not
always pay the full amount of her alimony. She claimed he was about $30,000 in arrears,
but she did not provide supporting documentation. (Tr. 24-28, 31, 35-36, 81)
In about 2018, Applicant began to experience financial issues again. She testified
that her ex-husband had used her credit to purchase his new wife a wedding ring. She
also claimed that some of the marital debt that was supposed to be settled by her ex-
spouse per the divorce decree was not paid by him. Applicant’s health declined because
she could not purchase medication for her diabetes. Last year, she and her sister provided
money to her adult daughter to move into a hotel for a few months with her children due
to  domestic  violence.  Applicant  estimated  that  she  provided  around  $5,000  to  her
daughter, and this prevented her from paying on some of her delinquent accounts. (Tr.
29-30, 46-47)
The SOR alleges 18 delinquent accounts totaling $63,535, as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant is indebted to State A in the amount of $3,003 for
a tax lien entered against her in December 2017. At the hearing, Applicant stated that she
currently owes about $300 for unpaid 2016 taxes. She could not remember if the tax issue
stemmed from her personal income taxes or from her business. She stated that she had
made voluntary payments until she could no longer make any more payments. Thereafter,
State A garnished her wages to pay for the tax lien until about February 2020, when her
employment  contract  ended  and  she  was  out  of  a  job.  After  the  hearing,  Applicant
provided a document showing that, as of December 2022, she owed $180.68 to State A
for unpaid 2016 taxes. This tax debt is being paid. (Tr. 37-40; AE G)
Applicant is indebted to seven medical service providers for unpaid medical bills in
the total amount of $5,985. (SOR¶¶ 1.c, 1.e - 1.j).  Applicant initially denied these debts
in her Answer because she was unaware of all of these delinquent accounts. She testified
that she is using the services of Credit One Solutions to address and resolve these debts.
Department  Counsel  pointed  out  that  her  documentation  from  the  credit-repair
organization (AE A) did not show that they were addressing any of her unpaid medical
accounts. She stated that it is her intention to pay these delinquent medical accounts as
long as they are reported on her credit report properly. She has not made any payments
on any of these delinquent debts, and they remain unresolved. (Tr. 42-45; AE A, AE I)
SOR ¶ 1.d. alleges that Applicant is indebted in the amount of $661 for an account
placed into collection with a law firm. Applicant testified this debt was for attorney’s fees
arising from her divorce, and that her ex-husband was supposed to pay these fees. She
called the law firm in 2018 or 2019, but since that time, she has not contacted this creditor.
She informed Credit One Solutions of this outstanding legal fee, but she is not sure if the
company  is  taking  any  action.  Department  Counsel  asked  her  if  she  could  provide
documentation to show that her ex-husband is responsible for this debt. Applicant did not
submit  any  corroborating  documentation  while  the  record  was  held  open.  This  debt
remains unresolved. (Tr. 47-49)
SOR  ¶  1.k.  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  an  apartment  complex  in  the
approximate amount of $2,771 for a broken lease agreement. She stated that in 2018 she
was living in the apartment with her son. He kept having nosebleeds due to mold in their
apartment. She contacted the rental office and informed them she was moving out. She
admitted that she broke her one-year lease agreement, although she denied this account
in her Answer. She testified that she received advice from Credit One Solutions to pay
this  debt.  She  called  the  creditor  the  day  before  the  hearing  and  they  agreed  upon  a
payment plan. She has not yet made any payments, but she plans to start paying $100 a
month for this debt. Department Counsel asked Applicant to submit documentation of the
payment agreement and  any  payments made  by  her while  the  record was held open.  No
documentation  was submitted,  and  this debt  remains  unresolved.  (Tr. 49-51, 67-68,  85-
86)
SOR  ¶  1.l.  Applicant  is  indebted  for  a  timeshare  account  in  the  approximate
amount of $13,283. She testified that after the divorce she purchased the timeshare for
her  children.  She  stopped  making  payments  in  about  2020,  when  she  had  to  provide
financial assistance to her daughter. Credit One Solutions is disputing this account due
to  inaccurate  reporting.  Applicant’s  intention  is  to  either  pay  this  account  or  sell  the
timeshare, if permitted. As of the time the record closed, there was no resolution of this
debt, and this account remains unpaid. (Tr. 51-54; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.m. Applicant is indebted to a credit union for a vehicle loan charged off in
the approximate amount of $32,562. She testified  she incurred this loan to purchase a
new  car  after  her  divorce.  She  claimed  that  the  credit  union  changed  the  loan  from  a
vehicle loan to a signature loan, which increased the interest rate. Even though she still
possesses the vehicle, she has not made any car payments for the last two years because
the credit union would not accept her payments.  Credit One Solutions is disputing this
delinquent account and expects to file a lawsuit in the next 60-90 days. Applicant stated
that she has not placed her car payments into an escrow account, but it is her intention
to pay this debt. There is no resolution of this debt in the record and the account remains
unpaid. (Tr. 55-58; AE A)
SOR ¶  1.n.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  credit  union  in the  amount  of approximately
$3,558  for a  charged-off  signature  loan. She  testified  that she  is responsible  for this debt.
She  took out this loan  to  pay  for a  comedy  performance  at a  community  event.  However,
when  the  credit union  changed  her vehicle  loan  into  a  signature  loan, as stated  above,
she  had  a  “hissy-fit,”  especially  after she  was subjected  to  disrespectful treatment from
the  credit  union  representatives. She  stopped  making  payments, but  she  intends  to  make
payments  on  this account  in  the  future.  Credit One  Solutions  is disputing  this account.
There is no  resolution  of  this debt in the  record,  and  the  account remains unpaid.  (Tr. 58-
61; AE A, AE I)
SOR ¶ 1.o. Applicant is indebted to a bank in the amount of approximately $308
for a charged-off account. Applicant testified that she does not recognize the name of the
bank. Department Counsel showed her the September 2019 report from her background
interview. In September 2019, she told the government authorized investigator that she
did not recognize this same account, but she intended to do research to determine if this
was her account, and if so, she would arrange payments with the creditor. Applicant has
not made any payments on this account. She is relying on Credit One Solutions to handle
this delinquent account. This debt remains unpaid. (GE 8; Tr. 61-64)
SOR  ¶  1.p.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  home-security  system  company  in  the
approximate amount of $823, for an account that has been referred for collection.  She
testified that she has not contacted the creditor. She is relying on Credit One Solutions to
handle this delinquent account. This debt remains unpaid. (Tr. 64-66)
SOR  ¶  1.q.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  cable  utility  company  in  the  approximate
amount of $347, for an account referred for collection. Applicant testified that she has not
contacted the creditor, but she would look into this account since she has not received
any direction from Credit One Solutions. This debt remains unpaid. (Tr. 66-67)
(¶¶ 1.r and 1.s) Applicant is indebted to a collection agency for two accounts (city
and waste/recycling) in the total amount of $234. She admitted both of these accounts in
her Answer and listed that they were paid. Department Counsel asked for documentation
that  would  verify  the  accounts  were  paid  while  the  record  was  held  open.  There  is no
resolution of this debt in the record and the accounts remain unpaid. (Tr. 67)
Applicant  started  using  the  services  of  Credit  One  Solutions,  a  credit  repair
organization, about a year-and-a-half ago. She pays $99 a month for their service, and it
does not appear that any of that money is used to pay her delinquent creditors. Earlier,
she  had  used  the  services  of  another  consumer  credit  company,  but  after  being
dissatisfied  with  that  company,  she  switched  to  Credit  One  Solutions.  She  reported  to
Credit One Solutions that she had an upcoming security clearance interview, and it was
“imperative” that she had “a good credit report.” She is satisfied with Credit One Solutions
because they have organized her debts and helped her establish a monthly budget. (Tr.
69-71, 77-78, 84)
Applicant testified that she nets about $463 every week from her paycheck, after
deductions and the tax lien wage garnishment. She also receives about $2,783 in alimony
every month from her ex-husband, who is paying  the amount in full and on-time every
month.  She  recently  began  working  a  part-time  marketing  job  at  a  winery,  and  she
receives between about $150-$500 a month for her services. She submitted a personal
financial statement that shows she has a net remainder of about $1,535, after paying her
monthly expenses. She testified that lately she does not have that much money left over
because she has been helping her daughter and grandkids. She currently has about $800
in her savings account, and $700 in her checking account. (Tr. 71-77; AE H)
Character Evidence
Four  character  references  praised  Applicant’s  honesty,  reliability,  and  excellent
work ethic. Applicant is active in her community and is considered an upstanding citizen.
All of the references considered her an asset to any organization. (AE C, AE D, AE E, AE
F)
