Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  between
September  1986  and  December  2021  (SOR  1.a);  and  that  Applicant  intends  to  use
marijuana in the future. (SOR 1.b) In response to the SOR, she admitted SOR 1.a and
denied,  with  explanation,  SOR  1.b.  (FORM,  Items  1  and  2)  In  addition  to  the  facts
established  by  Applicant’s  admission  to  SOR  1.a,  and  based  on  my  review  of  the
information presented in the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  she  has
worked  since  August  2019  as  company  vice  president.  This  appears  to  be  her  first
application for a security clearance. Her employer wants her to fill a position other than
the one she now holds. The new position requires she be eligible for access to classified
information. (FORM, Items 2 – 4)
Applicant has been  married  since  1992, the  same  year she  graduated  from  college
with  a  bachelor’s degree. She  started  using  marijuana  in 1986, when  she  was 18  years
old.   She   has  used   marijuana   with   varying   frequency   through   at  least  December 2021.
The  state  where she  lives and  works legalized  the  use  of marijuana  for medical purposes
in 2018.  In February 2020,  a  doctor prescribed  for her  a license to buy marijuana to treat
her insomnia.  Since  then, she  smokes “a small  bowl”  of  marijuana  two  or three  times a
week in the  privacy  of  her own  home. Before receiving  her medical marijuana  prescription,
Applicant bought marijuana illegally from  a variety of sources. (FORM, Item 4)
In response to questions in Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of her
e-QIP, Applicant disclosed her drug use and stated she would continue to use marijuana
for  medical  purposes  as  allowed  by  law  in  her  state.  On  January  24,  2022,  during  a
personal subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator, she stated she does not
plan,  and  has  not  tried,  to  stop  using  marijuana.  She  further  stated  she  knows  using
marijuana is still a violation of federal law. Additionally, she stated that if her drug use is
an impediment to being approved for a security clearance, she would ask her employer
to find someone else to fill the position that requires a clearance rather than stop using
marijuana. However, Applicant also allowed that if her employer insisted that she fill the
new position, she would give up her marijuana use, but such would not be her first choice.
Her response to SOR 1.b is consistent with her statements on this issue during her PSI.
(FORM, Items 2 – 4)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February 2013 and by the Director of National Intelligence (DNI) in December 2021 make
clear that changes in the laws pertaining to marijuana by the various states, territories,
and  the  District  of  Columbia  do  not  alter  the  current  National  Security  Adjudicative
Guidelines. Because federal law supersedes state laws on this issue, Applicant’s use of
marijuana,  regardless  of  location  or  medical  justification  in  her  state  of  residence,  is
illegal. Further, federal workplaces prohibit illegal drug use by civilian federal employees
and by persons employed for work on federal contracts.
