[Note – The limited background information regarding Applicant was derived from
the FORM and was the most current information available.]
Applicant is a 62-year-old delivery driver employed by a defense contractor since
September  2018.  His  continued  employment  is  contingent  on  him  obtaining  a  security
clearance. He previously held a Secret security clearance when he was on active duty
in the U.S. Navy, discussed below.
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  June  1979.  He  was  awarded  an
associate’s  degree  in  November  1996.  He  has  been  married  three  times,  the  first
marriage  was  from  1982  to  1995,  and  the  second  marriage  was  from  1995  to  2001.
Both of those marriages ended by divorce. He married a third time in 2004. He has one
adult  biological  child  and  five  adult  stepchildren.  He  served  in  the  Navy  from  1986  to
1996, and was honorably discharged.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant disclosed his past drug use on his November 8, 2018. SF-86 (Item 3)
He said that he used marijuana between about May 1976 to about October 2018.  (SOR
¶  1.a)  He  admitted  the  SOR  allegation  in  his  answer  but  offered  no  additional  details.
(Items  1,  2,  3)  In  his  SF-86,  Applicant  stated  that  he  used  marijuana  for  anxiety  and
insomnia. The “norm” for him was to use marijuana at the end of the day as a sleep aid.
His  doctor  offered  him  “pills”  for  his  anxiety  and  insomnia,  but  Applicant  declined  that
option because he did not like pills, especially if they were addictive. He stopped using
marijuana when he was offered his current job. (Item 3)
During his January 22, 2019 Office of Personnel Management (OPM) interview,
Applicant reiterated what he stated when completing his SF-86. However, he added that
since  he  stopped  using  marijuana  in  October  2018,  he  has  no  issue  with  anxiety  or
insomnia and has no plans to use marijuana in the future. Getting this job was a second
chance for him to get his life in order. He purchased his marijuana in small amounts for
$20  through  acquaintances,  whose  “names  are  unknown.”  He  did  not  have  a  medical
marijuana card. Applicant smoked marijuana with his wife in the evenings. He claimed
that  he  does  not  associate  with  anyone  who  uses  marijuana.  Applicant  has  not
undergone a drug assessment for drug dependency, nor has he participated in any drug
treatment  program  or  counseling.  Only  his  wife  and  security  officials  know  of  his
marijuana  use,  and  he  told  the  OPM  interviewer  that  his  use  cannot  be  used  for
blackmail or coercion. (Item 6)
Financial Considerations
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  his  mortgage  company  for  an
account that went into foreclosure, with a deficiency balance of $60,151. He denied this
allegation  in  his  SOR  answer,  stating  “no  attempt  to  collect.”  He  did  not  provide  any
further details regarding any efforts he made to resolve this situation. (Items 1, 2)
This  delinquent  SOR  debt  is  established  by  an  April  22,  2019  circuit  court  final
judgment  in  favor  of  Applicant’s  mortgage  company,  and  by  his  November  8,  2019
credit report, which reports that this account went into foreclosure in 2015. (Items 4, 5)
During  Applicant’s  January  22,  2019  OPM  interview,  he  stated  that  his  property
manager  remodeled  a  rental  house  belonging  to  Applicant  without  his  authorization,
which caused “financial difficulties” for him. Additionally, his tenant was not able  to pay
her  rent.  Applicant  estimated  this  situation  began  in  2014.  Applicant  was  late  on  his
mortgage because of these issues related to his rental house. (Item 6)
Applicant also stated during that same OPM interview that his financial problems
were  tied  to  events  beyond  his  control  because  he  was  unemployed  and  had  health
issues  which  prevented  him from making timely payments to his creditors. He has not
sought financial counseling or debt consolidation services. He stated that he lives within
his means and no one can question his ability or willingness to pay his debts. (Item 6) A
review  of  Applicant’s November 8,  2018  SF-86  reflects periods  of unemployment from
September 2017 to February 2018; and August 2016 to November 2016. (Item 3)
As  noted  above,  Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶  2.a  in  his  answer,  asserting  that  the
creditor had not attempted to collect the deficiency balance. He provided no evidence of
his own efforts or intentions to resolve the debt. SOR ¶ 2.a is not resolved.
