Applicant is a 27-year-old associate counsel with a defense contractor. He is single
and has a fiancée. He has a juris doctor degree, and is seeking to obtain national security
eligibility in connection with his work with DoD. This is Applicant’s first application for a
security clearance in connection with his first job out of law school. (Item 3 at Sections
12, 13A, 17, and 25.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  used illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  the  single  allegation  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
1.a.  Applicant  admitted   using   marijuana   from   about  September  2012   through
August 2020. He  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequencies during  that  time, at one  point
using  marijuana  two  times a  week (2012-2016). From  2016  to  2018  he  used  marijuana
once   a   month.   He  then   used   marijuana   three   times  in  January   2019   and   five   times  in
August of  2020. Starting  in 2016,  he  only  used  marijuana  in states  where its purchase
and  use  was legal  under state  law. He has not used  marijuana  or any  other illegal drug
since August 2020. (Item 3  at Section  23  and  Item  4.)
Applicant  submitted   a   signed   statement  of  intent   dated   January   26,  2022.  He
stated,  “I   have   no   future  intent  to   use   any   illegal  controlled   substance   or  abuse
prescription   drugs,  regardless  of   whether  I   am   an   applicant  for  or  hold  a   security
clearance.”  He  also  agreed   to   random   drug   testing   and   immediate   revocation   of   his
security clearance if  he has a positive drug test. (Applicant Exhibit F.)
Applicant also agreed to the granting of a conditional clearance. His supervisor,
the general counsel of the defense contractor, agreed in writing to monitor Applicant for
one year and authorize quarterly, random drug tests. (Applicant Exhibit G.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted a letter from his supervisor, who is the general counsel of the
defense contractor. She has worked daily with Applicant for five years, since he began as
an  intern.  She  stated,  “I  have  personally  found  [Applicant]  to  be  honest,  trustworthy,
reliable, dedicated  and loyal.”  The rest of the letter is also laudatory. She recommends
Applicant for a  position  of  trust,  which is shown  by  the  company’s decision  to  propose
Applicant as the Facility Security Officer. (Applicant Exhibit D at 1-2.)
Applicant submitted his annual appraisal covering his first full year working for the
defense  contractor.  His  supervisor  stated,  “[Applicant’s]  performance  in  2020  was
excellent.” (Applicant Exhibit C at 5-10.)
Applicant submitted letters from a long-time friend and from his fiancée. They each
discuss  Applicant’s  stated  and  unequivocal  intention  not  to  use  marijuana.  (Applicant
Exhibit D at 3-4.)
