Applicant is 37 years old, married and has one young child. He and his wife are
expecting a second child. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2008 and a master’s degree
in  2015.  He  has  worked  for  a  major  DoD  contractor  for  the  last  14  years.  Applicant’s
employer has promoted  him five  times, and he  is presently a manager.  He  received a
security clearance in 2009 and is seeking to renew his eligibility in connection with his
employment. (Tr. at 15-23; GE 1 at 12-20; AE A at 1-2.)
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Involvement
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  a  history  of  drug  involvement.  Specifically,  the  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant used marijuana with “varying frequency” from about September 2015 to at least
September 2017. The SOR also alleged that Applicant used marijuana after he had been
granted  access  to  classified  information  (SOR  1.a).  The  SOR  further  alleged  that
Applicant intended to continue using marijuana in the future (SOR 1.b). In his Answer,
Applicant denied SOR 1.a “due to the term ‘varying frequency,’ which is ambiguous.” He
commented further  that he  “will explain  more  at  the  hearing.”  He also denied SOR 1.b
without comments.
In his e-QIP, Applicant disclosed that he used marijuana occasionally during the
period September 2015 to September 2017. At the hearing, he testified that those dates
were incorrect. He said that his first use was in or about September 2017 and his last use
was sometime in the first half of 2018. The basis of this adjusted timeline is the fact that
he only purchased medical marijuana, actually “edibles” containing THC (Edibles), in his
state of residence from medical marijuana dispensaries using a process that requires a
doctor’s  medical  marijuana  “recommendation.”  His  purchases  and  uses  of  medical
marijuana,  including  Edibles,  pursuant  to  this  process  are  legal  in  the  state  in  which
Applicant resides. He first received a recommendation letter from a doctor in his state on
September 20,  2017.  He  had  never  used marijuana  in  any form  prior  to  obtaining  this
recommendation. He also testified that he stopped using Edibles prior to submitting his
e-QIP in July 2018. He estimated that he used Edibles less than 15 times during a period
of about nine months. Applicant acknowledged that he held a security clearance at the
time he used Edibles. (Tr. at 24-28, 48-50.)
Applicant  sought  a  recommendation  from  a  doctor  to  use  medical  marijuana
because he believed it would help reduce his “debilitating” symptoms of Attention Deficit
Hyperactivity  Disorder  (ADHD)  and  anxiety.  Applicant’s  psychiatrist  has  given  him  a
diagnosis  of  ADHD  and  Generalized  Anxiety  Disorder.  For  a  year  or  two  Applicant
followed the advice of his psychiatrist and followed his treatment plan for Applicant, which
included  taking  medication  for  his  ADHD  condition.  Over  that  period,  the  psychiatrist
adjusted Applicant’s medication a number of times in an attempt to reduce his symptoms
as much as possible with the medication. The medication never provided sufficient relief,
and  it  had  significant  side  effects  that  bothered  Applicant.  Prior  to  September  2017,
Applicant was also under the care of a therapist. (Tr. at 27-33, 48-50.)
Applicant asserted that his condition interfered with both his professional life and
his marriage. While searching for a better cure of his condition, he read about medical
studies  that  showed  that  marijuana  could  provide  relief  for  individuals  with  ADHD  or
anxiety. He decided to seek the advice of a physician about the possibility of treating his
condition  with  marijuana.  The  physician  gave  him  the  recommendation  letter  that  was
required  for  Applicant  to  purchase  marijuana  at  a  state-licensed  dispensary  where  his
purchases would be legal under state law. He used the marijuana in the form of Edibles
and found that the drug relieved his symptoms “to a degree.” It was more effective than
the  medication  prescribed  by  his  psychiatrist,  but  it  did  not  resolve  his  symptoms
completely. It had the benefit of eliminating the side effects of the prescribed drug. (Tr. at
31-35.)
Applicant  then   switched   to   a  new   therapist   who   treated   patients   with   Cognitive
Behavior Therapy  (CBT). Using  the  CBT techniques,  Applicant  learned  from  his therapist
that  he  could stop  the  cycle of  his symptoms  seriously  interfering  with  all  aspects of  his
life. He  decided  to  continue  with  CBT  therapy, and  he  stopped  using  Edibles.  Since  he
began   with   CBT  therapy   in  2018   after  he   prepared   his  e-QIP,   he   has  not  had   an
experience  of  having  his symptoms of  ADHD or anxiety  becoming  “out  of control.”  As  a
result,  he   does  not  intend   to   use   marijuana   in  the   future   and   has   signed   a   statement
confirming  that commitment.  At the  hearing, he  retracted  his statement in his July  2018
e-QIP  that he  may  need  to  rely  on  marijuana  in  the  future. He  believes that  his  use  of
CBT  techniques is a  much  more  effective  coping  mechanism  than  prescription  drugs or
marijuana.  It  is  also  important to  him  that  CBT techniques have  no  side  effects.  (Tr. at 33-
36; AE E.)
Applicant also is planning to avoid marijuana in the future for two other significant
reasons. One is that he became a father and wanted to become a proper role model for
his  child. He wants his  home  to  be  drug-free.  The  other reason  is that he  is aware that
under Federal law  his use  of Edibles is  illegal. At  the  time  he  used  Edibles,  he  was aware
that their  use  was inconsistent  with  the  responsibilities of  a  security  clearance  holder. He
used   Edibles   only   because   he   was  afraid  that  his  worsening   condition,  particularly   his
anxiety  disorder,  would seriously  damage  his marriage  and  his career if  he  did  not get his
mental health  condition  under control. He  was hoping  that  marijuana  would give  him  the
relief he  needed.  He understands  that  he  exercised  poor  judgment.  He  testified  that  his
judgment was “probably  clouded  by  the  feeling  that I  needed  to  do  something  quickly.”
He acknowledged that he “failed to consider the consequences of [his] actions while [he]
was desperate to regain control of his mental health.” He is committed now to complying
with  his legal responsibilities.  If he ever felt  desperate again,  he  would take  time off from
work and  consult with  his new  psychiatrist and  therapist. Moreover, he  stated  that he  has
faith in his current psychiatric care team. (Tr. at 36-41.)
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence
As noted, Applicant has had a highly successful career working for his employer
since graduate school. He has advanced in the company more quickly than most of his
peers. He has been selected for several special advancement programs and has received
certifications following his completion of specialized courses. (Tr. at 17-18; AE A at 2; AE
D at 1-15.)
Applicant  submitted  eight  reference  letters  from  a  supervisor,  co-workers  and
family members. All of his references praise Applicant’s intelligence, skills, and dedication
to  his  employer  and  the  United  States.  They  attest  to  his  integrity,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness. He also submitted several performance reviews in which he was highly
rated and praised for his excellent leadership skills, work ethic, and accomplishments. In
one review, he is described as one of the company’s “superstars.” (AE B; AE E.)
