Applicant  is  33  years  old.  She  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  She
graduated in May 2011 with a bachelor’s degree  and  earned her juris doctor degree in
May 2014. Since February 2021, she has been employed by a defense contractor. (Item
5.)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  used  marijuana  with
varying frequency from October 2007 to May 2021, and; (2) used marijuana after being
granted public trust eligibility in June 2017 and January 2020.  (Item 1S.) She admitted
those allegations. (Item 1A.)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  deliberately  falsified
material facts in her January 4, 2016 SCA when she answered “No,” to whether she had
illegally  used  marijuana  in  the  last  year;  (2)  deliberately  falsified  material  facts  in  her
October  29,  2018  SCA  when  she  answered  “No,”  to  whether  she  had  illegally  used
marijuana in the last year; (3) deliberately falsified material facts in her November 2, 2018
Additional  Questions  for  Public  Trust  Positions  (AQPTP)  when  she  answered  “No,”  to
whether  she  had  illegally  used  marijuana  within  the  last  seven  (7)  years.  (Item  1S.)
Applicant denied those allegations. (Item 1A.)
For purposes of Guideline E, the salient terms of Items 2 through 5 are discussed
below.
In the January 4, 2016 SCA, the second page of the form states its purpose as
follows:
Purpose of this Form
“The  United  States  Government  conducts  background  investigations  .  .  .  to
establish  that  applicants  either  employed  by  the  Government  or  working  for  the
Government  under  contract  are  suitable  for  the  job  and/or  eligible  for  a  public  trust  or
sensitive position.” (Item 2.)
Each SCA in the record had identical language at the beginning of the form. (Items
3 and 5.) The AQPTP stated that it is a “supplement” to the SCA. (Item 4.)
Each SCA and the AQPTP had the following language:
Certification That My Answers Are True
“My  statements on  this form,  and  any  attachments to  it, are  true, complete,
and  correct  to  the  best  of my  knowledge  and  belief and  are  made  in  good
faith.  I  understand  that  a  knowing  and  willful false statement  on  this form
can  be  punished  by  fine  or imprisonment or both  (See  section  1001  of  title
18,  United   States  Code).”   (Items   2   through   5.)    Applicant   digitally   signed
each certification. (Items 2  through 5.)
In   Applicant’s  most  recent  SCA  (June   24,  2021),   she   disclosed   that  she   used
marijuana   between   October  2007   and   May   2021.  She   characterized   her  use   as
“infrequent,”  about  20   times.  She   also  described   how   marijuana   affected   her:  “Not  a
pleasant feeling, do not enjoy.” (Item 5.)
In Applicant’s March 31, 2022 Responses to Interrogatories, she stated that she
used marijuana  between October 2007 and May 2021 “once  every few years” and that
she had “no intention to use drugs in the future.” In her Personal Subject Interview (PSI),
she explained that she used marijuana with friends for “experimental” purposes, and no
longer associates with those individuals. (Item 6.)
Applicant’s Response to the FORM makes the following relevant points:
Guideline H
   Her sole use  of marijuana  after  being  granted  a  public trust position  was in May
2021, when she  unintentionally ingested a  fruit snack containing  THC.
   Aside  from  the  incident  in May  2021, most of  her marijuana  use  was prior to  2012.
Guideline E
   The   January   2016   SCA,  October   2018   SCA,  and   November   2018   AQPTP
questions about marijuana  usage  only  looked  back one  year. She  had  not used
marijuana in  the one-year periods  before those questions were posed to her.
   She  “misunderstood  the  [November 2, 2018  AQPTP] question  to  be  exclusive  of
marijuana  use,  given  its legalization  at the  state  level at the  time  [she] completed
the  form.”
The November 2, 2018 AQPTP question about marijuana usage looks back seven
years, not one year. (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well   established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.  As  the
that   security
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly   consistent  standard
determinations should err, if  they  must,  on  the  side  of  denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
for  a   security   clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative   guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of  law  that apply  together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of  the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant or proven  by  Department Counsel. . . .”  The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion in seeking  a  favorable security decision.
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Under  AG  H,  illegal  drug  use  may  raise  questions  about  a  person’s  ability  or
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG ¶ 24 sets forth the concern,
as follows:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance means any "controlled substance" as defined in 21 U.S.C. § 802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and
AG  ¶  25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classification  or
holding a sensitive position.
The potentially applicable mitigating factors here are quoted below:
AG  ¶  26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG ¶ 26(b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and
substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this
problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not
limited to:
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is
grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.
Applicant  admitted  that  she  used  marijuana with  varying  frequency from  October
2007 to May 2021, and after being granted public trust eligibility in June 2017 and January
2020. Facts admitted by an applicant in an SCA, an Answer to a SOR, or in an interview
require no further proof from the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App. Bd.
Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any  admissions  [applicant]  made  to  the  SOR  allegations  .  .  .  relieve
Department Counsel of its burden of proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App.
Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n  applicant’s  admissions,  whether  testimonial  or  written,  can
provide a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Because  Applicant used marijuana for an extended period of time, including  while
holding a public trust position, disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (f) apply. The next
inquiry is whether any mitigating factors apply.
I  considered  mitigating  condition  AG  ¶  26(a).  Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in
2007, almost 15 years ago. Therefore, her initial use was long ago. She did, however,
continue that use with varying frequency through May 2021. Her drug use is not mitigated
by AG ¶ 26(a).
I  considered  mitigating condition  AG  ¶  26(b).  That  condition  has  two  components.
First,  the  individual  must  acknowledge  her  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse.
Second, the individual must establish a “pattern of abstinence.” The condition then lists
several nonexclusive examples of how a pattern could be shown.
Applicant  acknowledged  her  marijuana  use  for  the  first  time  in  her  June  24,  2021
SCA. There is no temporal component to  when that acknowledgement must be made.
That  is,  the  timing  of  the  acknowledgement  is  not  prescribed,  but  its  timing  may  be
considered  in  weighing  the  overall  evidence.  Here,  Applicant  did  acknowledge  her
marijuana use, albeit quite belatedly.
The second component requires an applicant to show a pattern of abstinence. Here,
Applicant said she no longer associates with the friends with whom she used marijuana
That is helpful to her cause.
Mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(b) also suggests that providing a signed statement in the
form described could aid in showing a commitment to abstinence. In her March 31, 2022
responses  to  interrogatories,  Applicant  said  she  had  “no  intention  to  use  drugs  in  the
future.” Her statement of future intent, however, is not controlling. The core of AG ¶ 26(b)
is whether Applicant has established a pattern of abstinence. Her drug use from October
2007 to 2021, even if infrequent, was a lengthy period. On balance, her abstinence from
2021  to  the  present  is  not  a  sufficient  period  of  abstinence  to  establish  a  pattern  that
satisfies AG ¶ 26(b). Her drug use is not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(b).
I find against Applicant on SOR ¶ 1.
Guideline E - Personal Conduct
In  assessing  an  allegation  of  deliberate  falsification,  I  consider  not  only  the
allegation  and  applicant’s  answer  but  also  all  relevant  circumstances. AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and
(d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the  “whole-person”  concept  and  factors).  Under  Guideline  E  for
personal conduct, the concern is that “[c]onduct involving questionable judgment, lack of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified
or sensitive information.” A statement or an omission is false or dishonest when it is made
deliberately (knowingly and willfully).
The SOR alleged that Applicant falsified facts by failing to disclose her previous
marijuana use. More specifically, the SOR alleged that she omitted marijuana use from
her  January  4,  2016  SCA,  October  29,  2018  SCA,  and  November  2,  2018  AQPTP.
Applicant denied those allegations. This alleged conduct falls squarely within AG ¶ 16(a),
which states in pertinent part:
[D]eliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant  facts  from
any personnel security questionnaire . . . used to conduct investigations.
AG ¶ 17(a) states in pertinent part a condition that may mitigate that disqualifying
condition:
[The]  individual  made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts  to  correct  the  omission,
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts.
Applicant  offers  two  explanations.  First,  she  claims  that  each  of  those  three
questionnaires look back only one year for prior drug use. She then states that she did
not  use  marijuana  during  those  respective  one-year  periods.  The  November  2,  2018
AQPTP, however, does not look back only one  year; it looks back seven  years, which
captures drug use in 2011. She stated that “most of the marijuana use was prior to 2012.”
Applicant’s first explanation has another problem. She would have us believe that
she can answer the following questions in the affirmative:
(1)  she remembers precisely that she did not use marijuana during the one year
preceding her January 4, 2016 SCA?
(2)  she remembers precisely that she did not use marijuana during the one year
preceding her October 29, 2018 SCA?
(3)  she remembers precisely that she did not use marijuana during the one year
preceding her November 2, 2018  AQPTP?  (Even though that questionnaire
looks back seven years.)
Applicant’s pot-smoking sessions were not formal gatherings. She was with others
at a friend’s house. It is not credible that she could honestly answer those three questions
in the affirmative. Moreover, she began her use of marijuana in 2007 for “experimental”
purposes. Yet she continued using for years, even though it was “not a pleasant feeling,”
and she did “not enjoy” it. Applicant’ first explanation is not credible.
Moreover,  Applicant’s  “No”  response  to  the  AQPTP  question  is  striking.  The
AQPTP asked about her marijuana use going back seven years, that is, from November
2018 back to November 2011. That seven-year period must have included at least one
of the 20 times that she used marijuana between October 2007 and May 2021. She was
trying  to  minimize  the  extent  of  her  drug  usage.  An  honest  “Yes”  answer  would  have
defeated that purpose.
Applicant has a second explanation. Her omission of marijuana use was simply
based  on  a  misunderstanding.  She  “misunderstood  the  [November  2,  2018  AQPTP]
question to be exclusive of marijuana use, given its legalization at the state level at the
time [she] completed the form.” The context, however, suggests otherwise.
Each SCA states at page two its purpose:
“The  United  States Government conducts background  investigations . . . to  establish  that
applicants  either  employed   by   the   Government  or  working   for  the   Government  under
contract are suitable  for the job and/or eligible for a  public trust or sensitive position.”
The AQPTP stated that it was a “supplement” to the SCAs. Since Applicant digitally
signed  each  form,  surely  she  knew  that  the  forms  were  to  be  used  by  the  U.S.
Government, not state governments.
There is more context that undermines Applicant’s “misunderstanding.” Each  form
has the  following Certification:
My statements on this form, and any attachments to it, are true, complete,
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief and are made in good
faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false statement on this form
can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both (See section 1001 of title
18, United States Code).
Applicant  digitally  signed  each  Certification.  That  Certification  on  its  face  is
governed by federal, not state law. There is not even a hint in any of the documents of
record that state law applies to the federal trustworthiness process. Applicant was granted
public trust eligibility in June 2017 and January 2020. She is well aware that the federal
Government holds illegal drug use to be important in the public trust eligibility process.
Given Applicant’s education, background, and experience, her “misunderstanding” is not
credible.
Finally, there is AG ¶ 17(a) that states in pertinent part a condition that may mitigate
the disqualifying conditions that apply here:
[The]  individual  made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts  to  correct  the  omission,
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts.
Applicant’s first material omission was in her January 4, 2016 SCA. She made no
prompt efforts to correct that omission. Her second material omission was in her October
29, 2018 SCA. She made no prompt efforts to correct that omission. Her third material
omission was in her November 2, 2018 AQPTP. She made no prompt efforts to correct
that omission. In fact, she never made any efforts, let alone prompt ones, to correct her
three material omissions. This history shows a pattern of deliberate omissions. She finally
answered truthfully when she was confronted by her June 24, 2021 SCA.  AG  ¶ 17(a)
does not apply.
I find that Applicant made deliberately false omissions, as alleged in SOR ¶ 2.
The Whole-Person Concept
The  record raises doubts about  Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  whether  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. - 1.b:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 2.a – 2.d:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In  light of  the  record as  a  whole,  it is not clearly  consistent with  the  national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information. Applicant’s eligibility is denied.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
