Applicant  admitted   all   of   the   allegations  in  the   SOR.   (SOR  ¶¶   1.a   through   1.k,
and   2.a   through   2.e.)  Having   thoroughly   considered   the   evidence   in   the   record,
including Applicant's admissions, I make the  following findings of  fact
:
Applicant is 38  years old.  She  was previously married  on  two  occasions and  was
divorced   in  approximately   2007,   and   again   in  2017.   She   is  currently   unmarried   and
resides  with   her  three   children,   ages   5,   10,   and   14.   Applicant   began   working   for  her
current employer two years ago. She works in data  management and assists retired and
enlisted   service  members  with   their   health   insurance   benefits.   Her   employer  requires
her to  be  issued  a  trustworthiness eligibility  to  perform  specific employment duties. (GE
1, GE 2; Tr. 7-20)
Under  Guideline   H,  the   SOR  alleged   Applicant’s  use   of   controlled   substances
from  2004  to  June  2020. Under Guideline  J, the  SOR alleged  approximately  eight drug-
related  arrests and  two arrests for assault,  as follows:
Applicant  began   using   methamphetamine   (crystal  meth)   around   the   age   of   20
(2004).  Her father  had  committed  suicide  when  she  was 18  years  old,  and  she  started
hanging out with friends who used drugs. In  2004, she used  and  purchased crystal meth
to   escape   her  personal  problems   arising   from   her   father’s  death.  The   use   of   crystal
meth  started  out as recreational, but it  did  not take  long  before  her drug  use  became  a
habit and  she  used  it  on a  daily basis. (SOR ¶  2.b) (Tr. 21-23)
SOR  ¶¶   1.a   and   1.c.  Applicant  was  arrested   twice  in  2006   for  possession   of   a
controlled  substance  and  public intoxication  with  a  controlled  substance.  She  admitted
these arrests but could not recall many details about these  incidents.  (GE 2, 23-26)
SOR  ¶   1.b.  Applicant   was  arrested   in  November  2006   for  operating   a   motor
vehicle   while   under  the   influence   of   drugs  and   for  possession   of   drug   paraphernalia.
She  admitted  these  arrests and  explained  that  she  was stopped  by  police  while  driving,
and  a  syringe  was  found under  her feet.  (GE 2, GE 3; Tr.  25-27)
Applicant was arrested for driving on a suspended licenses in June 2007 (SOR ¶
1.d); for public intoxication with a controlled substance in August 2007 (SOR ¶ 1.e); and
for  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia  in  September  2007  (SOR  ¶  1.f).  Applicant
admitted at  the  hearing that  she  could not  remember all the details  of  her arrests and
convictions,  but  she  did  acknowledge  that  almost  all  of  her  drug-related  arrests,  cited
above, involved crystal meth. At one point, she was sentenced to serve 30 days in jail
following an arrest, but she only served about 10 days in jail. After her September 2007
arrest  for  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia,  the  court  sentenced  her  to  six-and-a-half
months in jail. (Tr. 23, 26-29; GE 1, GE 3)
Applicant admitted that she gave birth to her daughter in 2008 while serving her
six-and-a-half month jail sentence. After her release, she stayed out of legal trouble for
about five years, but she continued her illegal use of controlled substances. She began
to  use  prescription  pain  pills,  without  a  valid  prescription,  on  a  daily  basis.  In  2012,
Applicant’s doctor prescribed her Suboxone, a medication to treat opioid addiction, and
she  gave  birth  to  her  second  daughter.  She  also  admitted  that  she  used  crystal  meth
again in about 2015 on a couple of occasions, but she could not recall the details. She
lost  custody  of  her  two  daughters  following  her  arrest  in  November  2016  for  assault
(domestic violence) with injury. This arrest involved a fight with her youngest daughter’s
father. He had hit her in the face with a television remote control, and she retaliated by
biting  him.  The  children  were  in  the  house  at  the  time  and  both  Applicant  and  her
daughter’s father were arrested. She was required to take  anger-management classes.
Her daughters were eventually returned to her by the court. (Tr. 28-36, 43; GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant continued using Suboxone, with a valid prescription, from 2012 through
2016. In 2017, she started going to the methadone clinic. She was pregnant at the time
with  her  third  child.  In  December  2018,  she  injured  her  arm  and  required  medical
treatment.  To  help  Applicant  calm  down  immediately  following  the  injury,  her  mother
gave  her  an  unprescribed  medication,  possibly Valium  or  Xanax.  When  Applicant  and
her  daughter arrived  at  the  hospital,  the  staff  notified  Child  Protective  Services  due  to
the  belief  that  Applicant  was  under  the  influence  of  a  controlled  substance  while  in
control  of  her  daughter.  Applicant  stopped  visiting  the  methadone  clinic  in  2019.  She
lost custody of her children again in 2019 due to her drug addiction. In 2019, she started
buying  Suboxone  illegally  from  known  sources.  She  continued  to  purchase  Suboxone
illegally until June 2020. (Tr. 28-35, 36-38, 43-51; GE 2)
In  June  2020,  Applicant  went  to  a  drug  treatment  program  to  overcome  her
substance abuse addiction. She also wanted to regain legal custody of her children and
live a drug-free lifestyle. She was diagnosed with opioid dependence, severe. She was
devoted to her recovery and she successfully completed the substance abuse treatment
program  in  September  2020.  At  that  time,  her  condition  was  listed  as  opioid
dependence, severe, in remission. Thereafter, the court returned Applicant’s children to
her custody. (Tr. 45-55; GE 4)
Since  June  2020,  Applicant  has  remained  completely  sober  and  has  not
relapsed.  She  stated that  she  was  tired of  being a  terrible  mother to  her children, and
she   was  tired   of   living   the   life   of   a   drug   addict.  She   has  remained   free   from   illegal
substances   and   addictive   prescription   medications   since   June   2020.   She   does  not
consume  alcohol  because  it is a mood-altering  substance  that can  cause her to  relapse.
After  she   completed   treatment,   she  regularly   attended   Alcoholic  Anonymous   (AA)   and
Narcotics Anonymous  (NA)  support meetings  and  was paired  with  a  sponsor. She  now
occasionally   attends  an   AA   or  NA   support   meeting   if   she   feels  the   need,  and   she
continues   to   communicate   with   her   sponsor   and   sober  friends.   Her   family   members
remain   active   in  supporting   her  recovery.   She   does  not  associate   with   her  old  friends
who  continue  to  use  illegal drugs. Her definition  of  “sober”   is  “to  be  free.”   She  testified
that  she   is  a   completely   different  person   since   June   2020,   and   she   wakes  up   every
morning   feeling   gratitude.   She   is  committed   to   her  sobriety,  her  children,   and   her
second chance  at life.  (Tr. 45-55)
Following  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  seven  letters  of  recommendation.
According to Applicant’s supervisor, since March 2021, Applicant shows up for work as
scheduled  and  performs  her  job  duties  in  a  successful  manner.  She  recommended
Applicant  be  allowed  to  continue  working  on  the  assigned  government  contract.  A
psychosocial support employee from the treatment facility, who met Applicant in August
2020, noted that she witnessed Applicant transform during treatment and could see that
she  wanted  a  better  life.  After  Applicant’s  successful  completion  of  treatment,  the
support employee reported seeing Applicant attending community substance abuse and
recovery  events.  Even  though  Applicant  is  a  busy  single  mom  holding  down  a  stable
job, she has reached out several times to help others start their own recovery process.
Applicant’s  friend  and  family  members  all  described  Applicant  as  a  new  person  who
continues to set a good example for her children. They all reported how proud they were
of her continued sobriety and productive lifestyle. (AE A- G)
