Applicant is a 26-year-old material pricing analyst, who has been employed full-
time by a defense contractor since July 2018. He seeks a Secret security clearance to
enhance his position within the company. (Tr. 11-13, 38; GE 1)
Applicant graduated from high school in June 2015. He was awarded a Bachelor
of  Science  degree  in  business  information  technology  in  May  2019.  (Tr.  13-15;  GE  1,
GE 2) Applicant has never married and has no dependents. (Tr. 15)
Drug  Involvement  and Substance  Abuse
Applicant’s  history  of  drug  involvement  and  substance  abuse  is  established  by
disclosures in his February 15, 2021 SF-86, in his January 24, 2022 response to DOHA
interrogatories  that  contained  his  March  30,  2021  Office  of  Personnel  Management
(OPM) Personal Subject Interview (PSI), in his undated SOR Answer, and in his hearing
testimony.  (GE  1,  GE  2)  A  summary  of  that  drug  involvement  and  substance  abuse
follows.
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that from about October 2012 through the present, Applicant
purchased  and  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency,  adding  that  he  intends  to
continue using marijuana in the future unless he holds a security clearance. In his SOR
Answer,  Applicant  admitted  this  allegation,  adding  that  there  was  “no  evidence  of
psychological  or  physical  dependence  on  the  drug.”  He  stated  his  use  of  marijuana
would end upon being granted a security clearance. (SOR Answer)
At his hearing, Applicant testified that he began using marijuana in high school in
March 2012. While in high school, he purchased marijuana from a friend and described
his  use  as  “[m]aybe  twice  a  year.”  While  in  college  from  2015  to  2019,  he  purchased
marijuana “[a]bout half of the times” he used it,  and described his use as “once a week
on the  weekends.”  The use of marijuana was not legal in his state of residence at any
point during the years 2012 to 2019. (Tr. 16-18)
After  graduating  from  college  in  2019,  until  March  2022,  Applicant’s  marijuana
use was the “most frequent . . . a couple times a week.” During the period from 2019 to
January 2021, he drove to a location where he could purchase marijuana legally about
“once  a  month.”  In  January  2021,  he  moved  to  his  current  state  of  residence  where
marijuana is legal under state law. (Tr. 18-20) After this move, he purchased all of  his
marijuana from state-licensed dispensaries. (Tr. 20-21)
Applicant stopped using marijuana in March 2022 because he is more productive
when  not  using  marijuana.  His  career,  relationships,  health,  and  fitness  are  all  better
without  the habitual use  of marijuana.  He described the  security clearance process as
“eye-opening.” He stated that he planned to reach out to a substance abuse therapist to
“stay consistent with this transition” of a drug-free lifestyle. Applicant added that he has
“mostly avoided” associating with friends who still use drugs. (Tr. 21-22; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  that  from  about  January  2016  through  at  least  March  2021,
Applicant  purchased  and  used  the  prescription  medication  Adderall  that  was  not
prescribed  to  him,  adding  that  he  intends  to  continue  using  Adderall  without  a
prescription. In his SOR Answer, Applicant admitted this allegation, but denied that he
intends to continue using Adderall without a prescription in the future. He stated that he
has not used Adderall since March 2021. (SOR Answer)
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  first  used  Adderall  when  he  was  a
freshman  in  college.  A  friend  gave  it  to  him  when  he  was  “cramming”  for  an
examination.  Applicant  stated  that  the  Adderall  helped  him  “with  staying  on  task  and
being able to study for as long as [he] needed to study for and to retain the information
to  regurgitate  that  onto  the  test.”  The  last  time  Applicant  used  Adderall  was  in  March
2021 when he was studying for a certification. He used Adderall infrequently in college,
once every two months or whenever he had a big project to complete. After college, he
used Adderall “maybe once a quarter.” (Tr. 26-29)
Applicant corrected the number of times he used Adderall from the 50 times he
listed  on  his  SF-86  to  approximately  30  times.  Applicant  stopped  using  Adderall  in
March 2021 because, after evaluating the negative versus the positive benefits of using
Adderall, he decided the negatives outweighed the positives. He obtained Adderall from
friends  who  had  prescriptions  for  it.  He  previously  stated  that  he  intended  to  continue
using Adderall out of “stubbornness.” As previously stated in his SOR Answer,  he does
not intend to use Adderall in the future. (Tr. 29-31; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  from  about  November  2016  through  at  least  February
2021,  Applicant  purchased  and  used  ecstasy  with  varying  frequency.  In  his  SOR
Answer,  he  admitted  this  allegation,  adding  that  his  use  of  ecstasy  was  purely
experimental  and  mostly  occurred  while  he  was  in  college.  He  stated  that  he  has  not
used ecstasy since February 2021. (SOR Answer)
At his hearing, Applicant reiterated that, as he stated in his SOR Answer, he last
used  ecstasy  in  February  2021.  He  described  his  ecstasy  use  as  “experimental.”  He
used ecstasy while  in college  “during  a  big  party,” and  later at  a  “few  music festivals.”
He  estimated  that  he  used  ecstasy  four  times.  He  purchased  ecstasy  one  time  and
obtained  it  the  other  times  from  friends.  He  stopped  using  ecstasy  because  the
negatives outweighed the positives. (Tr. 31-33)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  from  about  March  2019  through  November  2020,
Applicant purchased and used hallucinogenic drugs with varying frequency. In his SOR
Answer, Applicant admitted this allegation, adding that his use of hallucinogenic drugs
was purely experimental. He has not used hallucinogenic drugs since November 2020.
(SOR Answer)
At his hearing, Applicant reiterated what he wrote in his SOR Answer that he last
used hallucinogenic drugs in November 2020. He compared his hallucinogenic drug use
to  that  of  ecstasy,  “extremely  infrequent,  purely  experimental.”  He  estimated  that  he
used  hallucinogenic  drugs  three  times.  He  purchased  hallucinogenic  drugs  one  time
and obtained it the other times from friends. (Tr. 33-34)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  that  from  about  November  2016  through  at  least  February
2021,  Applicant  purchased  and  used  cocaine  with  varying  frequency.  In  his  SOR
Answer,  Applicant  admitted  this  allegation,  adding  that  his  use  of  cocaine  was
occasional  and  mostly  occurred  in  college.  He  has  not  used  cocaine  since  February
2021. (SOR Answer)
At his hearing, Applicant reiterated what he stated in his SOR Answer, testifying
that the first time he used cocaine  was in November 2016 and the last time he used it
was in February 2021. He characterized his cocaine use as “occasional,” estimating that
he  used  it “about  40  times.” His cocaine  use  was “mostly in college  and  always during
social  gatherings.”  He  infrequently  purchased  cocaine  from  a  college  friend  and  the
other  times  he  obtained  it  from  friends.  He  stopped  using  cocaine  because  the
negatives outweighed the positives. (Tr. 34-36; AE A)
Applicant has never participated in a drug rehabilitation program, nor has he ever
been  diagnosed  with  a  substance  abuse  disorder.  (Tr.  36)  During  his  hearing,  he
submitted a statement claiming he  “will be  consulting with  a substance abuse therapist
in [location] to ensure I stay consistent.” (AE A) From 2012 to 2022, the only time period
that he  was  totally abstinent from drug use  was  a  three-month period  before  his 2018
summer  internship. That  was  in  part to  ensure  he  would  pass  his drug-screening test.
(Tr. 37) Applicant never sold drugs, but reciprocated with individuals who had provided
him drugs by doing the same for them. (Tr. 37-38)
Applicant  works  for  an  employer  who  requires  a  drug-free  environment.  His
explanation  to  continue  using  drugs,  contrary  to  this  policy,  was  because  of
“stubbornness” and for no  good  reason. He understood  at  the  time  when  his employer
hired  him  they  had  a  drug-free  policy.  After  passing  his  entry-level  drug  test  when  he
was hired in 2018, he has not been tested since. (Tr. 22-24) His job is full time remote,
and  he  has  no  expectation  that  he  will  be  required  to  report  to  an  office  environment.
(Tr. 24-25)
Applicant  submitted  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (AE A)  Applicant stated
that  he  swallowed  his  pride  and  determined  that  a  drug-free  life  is  better  than  a  life
spent  misusing  and  being  involved  with  drugs. He believes that  “turning  this page” will
greatly improve his overall health and enhance his career and his relationship with his
family. (Tr. 38-39; AE A) Applicant’s family is aware of his drug use and is supportive of
him remaining drug-free. (Tr. 39-40)
Character Evidence
In his free time, Applicant enjoys surfing, playing basketball, and hiking. He also
enjoys reading and spending time with friends and family. (Tr. 40)
