After a thorough and careful review of  the pleadings, the Government’s exhibits,
and Applicant’s Response, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  66  years old  and  has  been  married  since  August  1982.  He  has  an
adult son and daughter and two adult stepdaughters. He earned an associate’s degree in
May  1982  and  a  bachelor’s degree  in  December 1998. Since  April 2016, he  has been
employed by a defense contractor. (Item 4.)
The 1992 Offense
Under  AG  D,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  April  1992  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged  with  Criminal  Sexual  Assault  of  a  Family  Member  and  Aggravated  Criminal
Sexual Assault of  a victim  less than 13  years  of  age. In his January 8,  2020 Personal
Subject Interview (PSI), he explained that once he started the abuse he  could not stop
and needed to be arrested. (Item 5.) He pleaded guilty on October 26, 1992. (Item 7 at
3.) In his Answer, he admitted that he was arrested and charged, as alleged. He admitted
that he was placed on four years of probation, He also admitted that he served four years
of probation and never missed a meeting with his probation officer. He registered as a
child sex offender for 10 years and attended mandatory professional counseling sessions
for five years. (Item 3.) On July 15, 1993, the court ordered that Applicant could return to
his marital home to reside with his family (his wife, his then minor son and daughter, and
his two then minor stepdaughters). (Item 7 at 19.)
In his PSI, Applicant explained his understanding of the end of his 10 years of child
sex offender registration. Near the end of that 10 year period (2002 or 2003), he filed his
periodic registration form. The officer who processed the form told him that he no longer
needed  to  register  and  was  no  longer  subject  to  monitoring,  as  a  result  of  his  1992
conviction. (Item 5.)
In his Response to the FORM, Applicant explained two instances when he might
have violated the terms of his 1992 sentence. The first was in 2006 when his son, who is
disabled,  graduated from  high  school.  Applicant  attended  that  graduation  with  his  wife
and family members. He knew at the time that he should have gotten permission from the
court. (Item 5.) The second was an instance (date not stated) when one of his daughters
telephoned and asked if he and his wife could pick up her two sons (his grandsons) from
school. They did so. It is not clear on this record that this latter instance violated the terms
of his sentence. He volunteered those instances to the OPM investigator to be “open and
honest.” (Response.)
The 2019 Offense
Under  AG  D,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  March  2019  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged  with  a  misdemeanor  of  being  as  Child  Sex  Offender  Unlawfully  Present  in  a
Public Park. On May 23, 2019, Applicant pleaded guilty to that charge and was placed on
12 months court supervision until May 22, 2020. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted that he was
arrested and charged, as alleged. (Item 3.) Applicant was found guilty and sentenced to
one year of court supervision and fined for fees and costs totaling $1,247. His sentence
was satisfied on September 16, 2020. (Item 9.)
Applicant did not know it was illegal for him to enter a public park for a walk with
an adult companion. He had not yet exited his car when arrested. He did not knowingly
or  willfully  violate  the  law.  (Item  3.)  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  on  advice  of  counsel.  He
questioned, however, whether the law applied to him, because it was passed in 2012,
years after his 1992 offense. There were no children in the park at the time of his arrest,
which is required by the current law. The Arrest Report did not note that children were
present then. (Items 3, 5, 8, and 10.) Nonetheless, he pleaded guilty because at the time
he “was in the process of a Federal Background Investigation [for a security clearance]
and did not want that to get affected.” (Item 5.)
In his PSI, Applicant explained his understanding of the end of his 10 years of child
sex offender registration. Near the end of that 10 year period (2002 or 2003), he filed his
periodic registration form. The officer who processed the form told him that he no longer
needed  to  register  and  was  no  longer  subject  to  monitoring,  as  a  result  of  his  1992
conviction. (Item 5.)
In his Response to the FORM, Applicant explained two instances when he might
have violated the terms of his 1992 sentence. The first was in 2006 when his son, who is
disabled,  graduated from  high  school.  Applicant  attended  that  graduation  with  his  wife
and family members. He knew at the time that he should have gotten permission from the
court. (Item 5.)
The  second  was  an  instance  (date  not  stated)  when  one  of  his  daughters
telephoned and asked if he and his wife could pick up her two sons (his grandsons) from
school. They did so. The specific location where he and his wife picked up the grandsons
is not stated. Therefore, it is not clear on this record that this latter instance violated the
terms  of  his  sentence.  He  volunteered  those  instances  to  the  OPM  investigator  to  be
“open and honest.” (Response.)
Under AG J, the SOR cross-alleged the allegations made under AG D. Applicant’s
admissions and denials to AG D are incorporated herein by reference.
