Applicant is a 38-year-old single man. He finished college in 2006, double majoring
in finance and statistics, and in 2008, he earned a master’s degree in operations research.
He has been working for his current employer, a defense contractor, since 2019, as a data
engineer. (Tr. 24)
Applicant is highly respected on the job. According to the director of the government
agency that Applicant serves, he is a man of character and integrity, and an impressive
worker. (AE B)
Applicant has consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to the point of intoxication,
since about 2014 to the present. (Tr. 28)  In April 2014, he was arrested and charged with
driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI). (Answer at 1) When the police stopped him, he
was on the way home from a pub where he had consumed a few beers. (Tr. 38) The police
officer administered a sobriety test, and Applicant’s blood/alcohol content registered .15
percent. (Tr. 41) Subsequently, Applicant was convicted and sentenced to six months in jail
with five months and 25 days suspended, ordered to pay a $2,500 fine, and  ordered to
attend  alcohol  education  classes.  (Tr.  43)  Moreover,  the  court  suspended  his  driver’s
license for a year. (Tr. 43)
In March 2019, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI after an evening of
drinking  alcohol  and  bar  hopping.  (Tr.  50-52)  Subsequently,  he  was  convicted  and
sentenced to ten days in jail and 29 days of house arrest, fined $2,600, and placed on
probation  for 11  months  and  29  days.  (GE 8  at 6) Moreover, the court suspended his
license was for five years, ordered him to complete in-patient treatment and 50 hours of
community  service,  and  ordered  him  to  install  an  ignition  interlock  device  on  his
automobile. (Tr. 43-45, 60, GE 8 at 6; GE 4)
Applicant’s inpatient treatment program, lasting from June 28, 2019 to July 8, 2019,
consisted of a combination of individual and group counseling. (Tr. 45: GE 6 at 1) During
the program, Applicant admitted to drinking to intoxication three days per week. (GE 7 at 1)
Moreover,  he  disclosed  that  his  history  of  alcohol  abuse  caused  strife  in  his  personal
relationships. (GE 6 at 1; GE 7 at 9) He was diagnosed with “severe alcohol dependency.”
(GE 6 at 5)
Applicant successfully completed the treatment program, and was discharged after
14 days. (GE 6 at 5) The clinician who worked with him during the treatment program
recommended  that  he  work  with  a  12-step  support  program,  such  as  Alcoholics
Anonymous,  and  attend  follow-up  aftercare  appointments.  (GE  6  at  2,  5)  Applicant’s
counselor characterized his prognosis as fair to moderate “provided [he] adheres to the
recommendations of the treatment team and continues working a program of recovery and
abstain from mood altering chemicals, including alcohol.” (GE 6 at 2)
Applicant  remained  abstinent  from  alcohol  for  approximately  one  month  after
discharge from in-patient treatment in June 2019. (Tr. 75) He resumed drinking alcohol in
August 2019, then stopped in approximately February 2020. (GE 2 at 11 Some time later,
Applicant resumed alcohol consumption.  He currently drinks two to three alcoholic drinks
per week on weekends, and he is not enrolled in a 12-step support program. (Tr. 76)
In October 2019, Applicant was arrested and charged with Driving While License
Revoked  with  Knowledge,  and  Operating  a  Motor  Vehicle  without  a  Required  Ignition
Interlock Device. (Answer at 1) In February 2020, he pleaded guilty in state court, and was
sentenced to 29 days of house arrest. (Tr. 80) In June 2020, Applicant was charged in
federal court for the same offense. (Tr. 80)
Applicant  characterizes  his  decision  to  drive  on  a  suspended  license  as  a
“desperate decision” after months of commuting 16 miles roundtrip to work by bicycle to a
base that did not consistently allow ride sharing or cab access. (Tr. 78) In addition, he
admits  that  he  had  not  installed  an  ignition  interlock  device  at  the  time  of  his  arrest,
explaining that he considered this requirement redundant, having already been prohibited
totally from driving. (Tr. 77)
In  January  2021,  Applicant  successfully  applied  to  the  state’s  motor  vehicle
administration for a reinstatement of his driver’s license on a restricted basis. (Answer at 2)
Under the reinstatement, he is allowed to commute to work, drive for educational purposes,
and drive to church. (Answer at 2) The state motor vehicle authority’s authorization  for
Applicant to drive under restricted conditions stated that he must obtain an ignition interlock
device before the restrictions were relaxed. (Answer at 2)
Applicant  contends  that  he  “does  not  have  an  Alcohol  Dependency  problem”
because he has none of the associated risk factors. (AE A) He provided no evidence from
either a physician, counselor, or certified alcohol clinician that his diagnosis is in remission.
