Applicant  is  27  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s degree.  He holds the position of Systems Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain
a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline  E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
Applicant  was  born  in  Kabul,  Afghanistan  in  1995.  He  relocated  to  the  United
States  with  his  family  in  2004.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2006.  He
obtained his Bachelor’s  degree in 2019.  He began working for a defense contractor in
September 2020.  He has never held a security clearance before.  (Tr. p. 21.)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  on  August  12,  2020.
(Government  Exhibit  1.)  In  response  to  Section  18,  concerning  “Relatives,”  Applicant
failed to disclose his brother, as required.  Applicant testified that he did not want to be
associated  with  his  brother  and  so  he  did  not  list  him  on  the  application.  (Tr.  p.  26.)
When  Applicant  completed  the  application,  this  brother  was  incarcerated  in  prison  for
auto theft.  At some point he was  released and placed on parole.  He violated parole,
and was sent back to prison.  (Tr. p. 29.)  Applicant later revealed that he withheld this
information  from  the  Government  because  he  believed  that  it  would  negatively  reflect
upon him.
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  OPM  investigator  on  September  23,  2020.
During  the  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  his  parents  were  divorced,  and  he  did  not
speak  with  his  father  and  that  he  did  not  know  his  father’s  address.
(Government
Exhibit 2.)  When confronted with conflicting information that he provided on his August
12, 2020, security clearance application, Applicant admitted that he deliberately lied to
the investigator at the direction of his father.  His father told him to say that he did not
live  with the Applicant, and that Applicant did not know what  his father did for a living.
(Tr. p. 31.)  Applicant testified that when he met with the investigator  for this interview,
he was actually living with his father, mother, sister and younger brother.  (Tr. p. 45.)
Applicant’s father passed away in March 2022.  When he was in Afghanistan, his
father worked as a medical doctor.  In the U.S., he worked for several years as a linquist
for the U.S. government.  In 2014, he opened a restaurant.
Applicant  currently  resides  with  his  older  brother,  who  is  an  Engineer,  and  his
mother and younger brother.  Applicant’s mother  is not employed outside of the home.
She  remains  in  regular  contact  with  her  large  family  in  Afghanistan.  Specifically,  her
mother, father, grandparents, and siblings who all reside in Afghanistan.  (Tr. p. 37.)
Applicant  states  that  he  realizes  what  he  did  was  wrong  and  stupid,  and  he
regrets his decisions.  (Tr. p. 34-35.)
