Applicant is 33 years old, unmarried, and has four children under the age of 13.
She received a high school diploma and attended college classes for five months in 2005.
Applicant has been employed by defense contractors as a security guard since 2008. She
first  received  a  security  clearance  in  2006.  She  seeks  to  retain  her  national  security
eligibility and a security clearance in connection with her employment. (Item 3 at Sections
1, 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Item 4 at 1.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline  F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because she is
financially  overextended  with  delinquent  debts  and  therefore  is  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy,  or  at  risk  of  having  to  engage  in  illegal  acts  to  generate  funds.  In  her
Answer, Applicant admitted all but one of the SOR allegations under this guideline. The
existence  and  amounts  of  these  debts  are  also  supported  by  the  credit  reports  in  the
record dated November 17, 2020, and June 17, 2022. (Items 1, 2, 6, and 7.)
The status of the matters set forth in this paragraph of the SOR is as follows:
1.a. Multiple Federal student loan accounts placed for collection in the total amount
of approximately $23,476. Item 6, Applicant’s June 2022 credit report, details 13 student
loan accounts opened by Applicant during the 2011 to 2015 period. Applicant defaulted
on repaying the loans in or about April or May 2018, based upon the dates of last activity
reported in her June 2022 credit report in the record (Item 6). Her e-QIP reflects no college
classes during the 2011 to 2015 period. In her background interview, Appellant reported
that she defaulted because she was between jobs at the time. The e-QIP does not reflect
any unemployment in 2019 or thereafter. In her Answer, Applicant stated that her loans
are on “pause” pursuant to Federal policy, and she intends to set up a payment plan when
the pause expires. She provided no information to establish that she has rehabilitated her
Federal  student  loans in  collection,  which  were  in  default  prior  to  the  beginning  of  the
Federal “pause” policy first instituted at the beginning of the COVID pandemic in March
2020. She has also provided no evidence that her student loans are eligible for the benefit
of the Federal “pause” program or that she has the financial ability to pay her loans under
a future payment plan. These debts are not resolved. (Item 2 at 5; Item 6 at 4-8; Item 7
at 2-7.)
1.b. Debt placed for collection in 2017 in the approximate amount of $2,062. In her
Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that she was willing to set up a payment
plan.  She  has  not  asserted  that  she  has  set  up  a  plan  or  made  any  payments  to  the
creditor. This debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 7 at 4, 6.)
1.c.  Debt  charged  off  in  2017  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,653.  Applicant
opened this credit-card  account  with  Bank A  in  September 2017 and defaulted  on  her
payments in December 2017. In her Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that
she was willing to set up a payment plan. She has not asserted that she has set up a plan
or made any payments to the creditor. This debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 6 at
16; Item 7 at 5.)
1.d. Debt placed for collection in 2018 in the approximate amount of $894. In her
Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that she was willing to set up a payment
plan.  She  has  not  asserted  that  she  has  set  up  a  plan  or  made  any  payments  to  the
creditor. This debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 7 at 7.)
1.e. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $433. In her Answer,
Applicant denied this debt and wrote that she had paid it. She provided no evidence of
her payment and did not assert when she paid the debt. The debt, however, does not
appear in the Government’s most recent credit report in the record (Item 6). This debt is
resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 7 at 8.)
1.f. Debt placed for collection in 2020 in the approximate amount of $412. In her
Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that she was willing to set up a payment
plan.  She  has  not  asserted  that  she  has  set  up  a  plan  or  made  any  payments  to  the
creditor. This debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 6 at 9; Item 7 at 8.)
1.g. Debt placed for collection in the approximate amount of $348. In her Answer,
Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that she was willing to set up a payment plan. She
has not asserted that she has set up a plan or made any payments to the creditor. This
debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 7 at 8.)
1.h. Debt placed for collection in 2016 in the approximate amount of $256. In her
Answer, Applicant admitted this debt and wrote that she was willing to set up a payment
plan.  She  has  not  asserted  that  she  has  set  up  a  plan  or  made  any  payments  to  the
creditor. This debt is not resolved. (Item 2 at 6; Item 6 at 9; Item 7 at 9.)
1.i.  Debt  charged  off  in  2017  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $16,238.  Applicant
opened  this  vehicle  loan  account  with  Bank  A  in  February  2016  and  defaulted  on  her
payments  in  March  2017.  The  account  was  subsequently  charged  off.  In  her  Answer
Applicant  admitted  this  debt  and  wrote  that  the  creditor  repossessed  the  vehicle.  She
believed  that  the  balance  after  the  resale  of  the  vehicle  should  be  lower  that  than  the
alleged  amount  of  the  debt.  Nevertheless,  she  wrote  that  she  was  willing  to  set  up  a
payment plan to repay the debt. She has not asserted that she has set up a plan or made
any payments to the creditor. The Government’s credit reports are somewhat inconsistent
on the status of the debt. The November 2020 report (Item 7) states that the outstanding
balance is $16,238, but it also states that the debt was settled for less than the full balance
of the debt. It further reflects that the charged-off debt was paid. The more recent credit
report (Item 6) states that the  balance  is $0  and  that the  “Account Was Paid For Less
Than Full Balance.” Based upon the information in the credit reports, this debt is resolved.
(Item 2 at 6; Item 6 at 15; GE 7 at 9.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleges that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because of her
judgment,  reliability,  and
criminal  conduct,  which  raises  questions  about  her
trustworthiness;  and  about  her  ability  and  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations. In her Answer, Applicant admitted her recent arrest but noted that the charge
against her was dropped. (Item 2 at 3, 6.)
The status of the matters set forth in this paragraph of the SOR is as follows:
2.a. February 2021 arrest on an arrest warrant for Felony Embezzlement issued in
October  2016.  Applicant  worked  as  a  cashier  at  a  retail  chain  in  October  2016.  Her
employer accused her of  stealing about $340 from her cash register and filed charges
with the police. The theft occurred over a period of about eight days. After the last incident
Applicant failed to appear for her scheduled work shifts and failed to contact anyone at
her employer. The local police report in the record, which is included as part of Item 5,
identifies  in  detail  the  complainant,  who  was  a  loss-prevention  employee  of  the  store
where  Applicant  worked,  and  the  three  dates  and  amounts  of  the  cash  shortages
discovered in Applicant’s registers. The reporting police officer commented in his report
that he obtained a felony warrant for Applicant’s arrest from a judge and filed the warrant
“at the warrant desk.” Applicant was arrested on the warrant in February 2021 during a
routine check due to her vehicle being improperly parked. The police department’s Arrest
Report appears in the record. The only information in the record regarding the disposition
of the charge is Applicant’s statement in her Answer that the charge was “dropped.” The
arrest  occurred  after  she  submitted  her  e-QIP  and  her  background  investigation.  The
arrest  was  reported  in  a  DoD  Continuous  Evaluation  Program  report,  dated  June  17,
2021. (Item 2 at 3, 6; Item 5 at 3-7.)
Paragraph 3 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  clearance  because  she
provided false information in her October 12, 2020 e-QIP, which raises questions about
trustworthiness.  Applicant  omitted  requested
judgment,  honesty,  reliability,  and
information  in  her  response  to  questions  about  her  financial  history.  In  her  Answer
Applicant wrote that she believed that her debts were outside of the seven-year period
covered by the e-QIP questions.
3.a. Falsification in the e-QIP regarding debts. The relevant e-QIP question asked
Applicant to disclose bills or debts turned over to collection agencies and accounts and
credit  cards  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failure  to  pay  as  agreed.  Both
questions were limited to such actions taken in the last seven years, i.e., during the period
October  2013  to  October  2020.  Applicant  responded  “No”  to  both  questions,  thereby
failing to disclose the debts and accounts listed in SOR subparagraphs 1.a through 1.i.
All of the defaulted obligations were turned over to a collection agency or charged off for
failure to pay as agreed during the period 2016 to 2020. Applicant should have listed all
of the debts and accounts alleged in the SOR.
In   her  Answer,  Applicant   wrote   that   she   failed   to   list  her  debts  because   she
believed   that  they   arose   more  than   seven   years  ago.  Her  excuse   for  failing   to   list  her
debts is not credible. None  of the debts became delinquent more than  four  years prior to
the  date  she  signed  the  e-QIP  and  certified  that her answers were truthful and  correct.
The  deliberateness of her non-disclosure is also evidenced  by  her failure to disclose  her
defaults on  her Federal student loans  within a  year or two  prior to  the  date  of  her e-QIP.
When  given  the  opportunity  to  voluntarily  disclose  her defaults on  her student loans  during
her November 2020  background  interview, she  failed  to  do  so. Applicant even  went so
far  as   to   not   disclose   in   her  e-QIP   her   post-high   school  education,   which   was  paid   by
these  13  student loans  accounts opened  by  Applicant  between  2011  and  2015.  Her non-
disclosure of these  college  courses  is evidence  that  she  was actively seeking to  conceal
her defaults on her student loans. (GE 3 at 2.)
