Applicant  is  27  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s degree, and is currently working towards his Masters degree.  He holds the
position  of  Mechanical  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant began working for his current employer in March 2019.  He is applying
for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  As  part  of  the  application  process,  he
completed the security clearance application (SF-86) dated December 13, 2021. In the
application, he admitted illegal drug use.
Applicant  has  used  marijuana  from  about  2013  to  at  least  January  2022,  with
varying frequency.  He began smoking marijuana during his first year of college.  (Tr. p.
23.)  During  this  period,  he  struggled  in  school,  and  was  depressed.  He  continued
smoking  marijuana,  mainly  in  social  settings  with  friends.  He  testified  that  he  usually
smokes marijuana once every two or three months.  (Tr. p. 24.)  He stated that he used
it less than 20 times a year or less than 100 times in the last seven years.  (Government
Exhibit 1.)  He testified that he believed that it was legal to use.  He usually obtained it
for use from his friends.  On one occasion, in 2017/2018, he purchased marijuana at a
dispensary in a state where he believed it to be legal under state law.  (Tr. p. 26.)
After being hired by his current employer in March 2019, Applicant continued to
use marijuana.  He states that he is not aware of his company’s drug policy.  (Tr. p. 28.)
None  of  his  supervisors  or  management  is  aware  of  his  illegal  drug  use.  (Tr.  p.  28.)
When  he  was  hired,  he  was  advised  to  read  the  Employee  Handbook,  but  he  did  not
take  the  time  to  do  so.  He  also  received  regular  annual  briefings  about  company
policies  and  procedures.  He  is  not  subject  to  random  urinalysis.  In  January 2022,  he
stopped  using  marijuana  when  he  learned  that  federal  law  prohibits  the  use  of
marijuana.
Applicant  explained  that  he  last  used  marijuana  in  January  2022,  after
completing  his  security  clearance  application.  He  was  celebrating  his  Birthday,  and
received marijuana as a Birthday gift from a friend.  (Tr. p. 29.)  He used it to celebrate
and  decompress.  In  response  to  interrogatories  he  completed  as  part  of  his  security
clearance  background  investigation,  Applicant  initially  stated  that  he  intended  to
continue  using  marijuana  even  after  being  issued  a  security  clearance.  (Government
Exhibit  2.)  He  explained  that  he  held  this  belief  because  of  his  stubbornness  and
unwillingness to take full responsibility for the current role he is in.
Applicant  shared   that  he   has  been   seeing   a   therapist  to   help   him   take
responsibility   for   his actions.    Applicant’s father is   battling   dementia   and   Applicant   has
recently  been  required  to  help  the  family  by  taking  his sister  to  school and  other things.
Applicant was not happy  about having  to  take  on  these  additional responsibilities.  His
therapist  is helping  him  gain  a  better  understanding  of how  to  be  responsible.   (Tr. pp.
30-34.)
He  is  also  learning  how  to  believe  in  himself  more,  take  responsibility  for  his
actions  and  to fully  engross  himself  in  any  role  where  he  is  needed.  Applicant  states
that he is now a role model at work, where he is mentoring the new hires and providing
guidance to them on the programs and practices used at work.  He wants to continue in
this  role  and  to  one  day  become  a  program/project  manager  in  the  defense  industry
where a security clearance is required.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  submitted  copies  of  his  employer’s  drug  policy  and  code  of  conduct.
(Applicant’s  Post-
They  indicate  strict  compliance  with  a  substance  free  workplace.
Hearing Exhibits A and B.)
Applicant’s  mid-year  assessment  and  year-end  assessment  are  favorable.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibits C.)
A letter from Applicant’s therapist shows that he has been receiving rehabilitative
counseling  and  mentorship  skills  since  October  2021.  He  is  making  progress  toward
building  his  confidence,  consistency,  and  emotional  intelligence  while  exploring  past
mistakes  and  drug  use.  He  is  showing  commitment  to  redemption  and  rehabilitation.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)
