Applicant  is  30  years  old,  and  is  not  married.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  as  a  helpdesk  supervisor.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  eleven  delinquent  debts  consisting  of  nine
Federal student loans, one medical debt, and a consumer debt, which were placed for
collection totaling approximately $40,584.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated August
12,  2021;  and April 19,  2022, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government  Exhibits  7 and
8.)  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  this  financial
indebtedness on his security clearance application  dated July 27, 2021.  (Government
Exhibit  4.)  Applicant  admits  allegations  1.a.  through  1.k.  regarding  his  financial
indebtedness,  and  he  denies  allegation  2.a.  concerning  falsification.  Applicant  began
working for his current employer in August 2018.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
During  his  interview  with  a  Federal  investigator  on  September  13,  2012,
Applicant was confronted with all of the debts alleged in the SOR.  (Government Exhibit
5.)  His credit reports show nine delinquent debts owed to the Government for student
loan  accounts  that  were  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amounts  of  $4,793;
$6,394;  $3,526;  $3,362;  $2,527;  $6,521;  $3,170;  $5166;  and  $4,188  totaling  about
$39,647.  (See Allegations 1.a., through 1.i of the SOR.)  Applicant acknowledged that
the  accounts  were  open  for  his  college  tuition.  He  stated  that  he  believed  that  the
accounts were opened in his mother’s name.  He stated that he did not know that they
remained  owing  until  it  was  brought  to  his  attention  during  the  security  clearance
process.  He further stated that he is actively in the process of resolving these issues.
(Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant submitted no  documentation to demonstrate that he
has done anything to resolve these debts.  The debts remain owing.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $912.  Applicant rented a washer and dryer, and relocated
out  of  state  before the appliances  were  returned.  Applicant  seems to  believe  that  the
rental  company  is  responsible  for  the  debt.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  to
demonstrate that the rental company is liable for the debt, or that he has resolved the
debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.
A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for a medical account that was placed for
collection in the approximate amount of $25.  Applicant stated that he was not aware of
the debt, but that he is in the process of resolving it.  The debt remains owing.
Even if Applicant only learned about his delinquent debts during his September
2021 interview with the Federal investigator, he has done nothing since then to resolve
his debts.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
(Government  Exhibit  4.)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (e-QIP)  dated  July  27,
2021.
In  response  to  Section  26,  Financial  Record,
Delinquency  Involving  Routine  Accounts:  The  question  asked,  “Other  than  previously
listed, have any of the following happened? In the past seven years have you had bills
or debts turned over to a collection agency?”  Applicant answered,  “NO,”  and failed to
list that he had been delinquent on debts in the past seven years, as noted in Paragraph
1, Guideline F above.
Applicant  denied  that  he  deliberately  lied  on  his  security  clearance  application
about  his  delinquent  debts.  He  contends  that  without  his  knowledge  his  parents
opened his student loan accounts to pay for his college tuition.  He claims that he had
no information about the accounts and assumed that his parents had paid them off.  His
explanation is not reasonable.  Applicant knew that the student loans were opened for
his college tuition.  He knew or should have known that regardless of who promised to
pay  his  student  loans,  he  would  be  the  one  legally  responsible  to  pay  them  back.
(Government  Exhibit  3.)  To  assume  that  his  parents  opened  the  accounts  using  his
social  security  number  and  without  his  consent  or  awareness  is  preposterous.  Their
conduct  would  be  criminal.
In  this  case,  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  his
financial indebtedness on his security clearance application.  This shows poor judgment
and  unreliability.  Applicant’s  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty  and  unworthiness  finds  him
ineligible for access to classified information.
