Applicant  is  34  years  old.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  he  has  attended
trade  school.  He  is  employed  with  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Structures  Aircraft
Mechanic.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
The Government alleges that Applicant’s foreign influence could pose a security
risk;  he  has  engaged  in  illegal  substance  abuse;  that  he  is  excessively  indebted;  and
that  he  falsified  his  security  clearance  application.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the
allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in
December 2019.
Guideline B- Foreign Influence
Applicant’s spouse  is a  citizen  of Mexico.  She  crossed the border and came to
the  United  States  illegally.  Applicant  met  her  at  a  previous  job,  where  they  worked
together.  They dated for several years, and were married in 2009, in Las Vegas.  After
they were married, Applicant hired an attorney to assist them with immigration services.
Applicant’s  wife’s  immigration  application  was  initially  denied.  Applicant  believes  that
she was denied because the paperwork indicated that she crossed the border with her
two  children  in  hand,  subjecting  them  to  danger.  Applicant  explained  that  her  two
children  crossed  the border,  in  an  earlier date,  and  they  did  not  come  with  her.  They
came before she did.  Applicant stated that he is still in the process of getting his wife
legal  status  in  the  U.S.  He  stated  that  his  wife  currently  has  a  work  permit  that  was
granted about six months ago.  He did not provide a copy of her work permit.  She has a
son and a daughter from a previous relationship, and two children with the Applicant.
Guideline H  –  Drug  Involvement  and Substance Misuse
Applicant  used  the  prescription  drug  Norco,  without  a  prescription,  off  and  on
from  about  2007/2008  to  at  least  August  2019.  He  explained  that  in  2007/2008,  his
father  was  in  an  accident  at  work,  and  Norco  was  prescribed  to  him.  At  some  point,
Applicant suffered back pain and complained to his father about it.  His father gave him
some Norco, and over time, Applicant became addicted to it.  Applicant would obtain the
drug from a  friend at work.  The  cost of the drug was $10 per pill.  At times  he  would
spend  $40  a  day  on  the  pills.  Applicant’s  wife  noticed  that  Applicant  was  spending
money not accounted for.  Applicant realized his addiction and in 2016/2017, he entered
an  out-patient  drug  rehabilitation  program.  The  program  lasted  one  year.  Applicant
completed  the program and  was able to  completely abstain  from drug use  for about 2
and a  half  years.  In 2020, Applicant relapsed  and  started using  Norco  again.  At that
time, Applicant was working for his current employer and he used Norco for about a six-
month period.  (Tr. p. 52.)  Applicant believes that the loss of his brother in 1999, that he
never really addressed, and the stress he experienced at home, caused him to relapse.
In 2020, Applicant then entered a second treatment center for his Norco addiction.  This
time,  Applicant’s  drug  rehabilitation  was  a  ten-day  in-patient  treatment  program.  He
completed the program and has been drug free for the past two and a half years.
Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  previous  employment  for  hitting  an  airplane.
Applicant underwent a drug test that was positive for Norco, and he admits that he was
under the influence of Norco at the time of the accident.  Applicant does not believe he
disclosed this information to his current employer.
Guideline  F –  Financial Considerations
Applicant  is  indebted  to  five  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR,  totaling  $24,489.  He
admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR  under  this  guideline.  Applicant’s
credit  reports  dated  May  24,  2019;  March  23,  2020;  and  August  5,  2022,  confirm  this
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5 and 6.)  The following delinquent debts are of
security concern:
1.    A   debt  is  owed   to   a   bank  for  a   credit  card   account  that  was   charged   off   in   the
approximate  amount of  $5,540.   Applicant  has made  no  payments  towards  the  account.
He recently received court documents regarding  the  matter.  The debt remains owing.
2.  A  debt is owed  to  a  creditor  for an  account that was charged  off in the  approximate
amount   of   $413   with   a   total  balance   of   $4,235.     Applicant   stated   that   he   has  paid  the
debt off, however he has not provided  documentary evidence to support this.
3.    A   debt  is  owed   to   a   creditor  for  a   credit   card   account  that  was   charged   off   in  the
approximate   amount  of  $2,834.     Applicant  has  made   no   payments  towards  the   debt.
The  debt remains owing.
4.    A   debt  is  owed   to   a   creditor  for  a   cellular   account  that  was   charged   off  in  the
approximate  amount  of $1,199.     The  debt  remains owing.
5.  A  debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account that was charged  off in the  approximate
amount  of  $10,681.     Applicant  does  not  recall   the   debt  and   has  not  looked   into   it.    It
appears  to   be   a   personal  loan   opened   in  2015.    (Government  Exhibit  4.)     The   debt
remains owing.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  May  7,  2019.
Section 23, asked him, “In the past seven years have you intentionally engaged in the
misuse of prescription drugs, regardless of whether or not the drugs were prescribed for
you or someone else?”  Applicant answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 1.)  Applicant
deliberately  failed  to  list  the  prescription  drug  use  discussed  above.  Applicant  stated
that he was embarrassed about his past drug addiction and did not list it.
Section 26 of the same application, asked the Applicant, “In the last seven years,
have you had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency? In the last seven years,
have you had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing
to pay as agreed?”  Applicant answered, “NO,” to both questions.  (Government Exhibit
1.)  Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his delinquent debts discussed above.
