Applicant is 45 years old. He has been divorced twice, and is currently married. He
has four children, ages 18, 17, 11, and 8. He enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps in March
2003, and completed his active duty service with an honorable discharge in March 2015.
He earned  an  associate’s degree  in 2019.  Since January 2021, he has worked  for his
government  contractor  employer  as  a  logistics  analyst.  His  employer  is  sponsoring
Applicant for a DOD security clearance  so he can perform specific job duties.  (Item 3;
Item 4)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  is  responsible  for  19  accounts  placed  into
collections,  charged  off,  or  delinquent  in  the  total  amount  of  $42,456.  In  his  Answer,
Applicant admitted 14 allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.m, and 1.s), and he denied five
allegations since these accounts had been paid. (SOR ¶¶ 1.n through 1.r) He provided
an April 2022  credit report with his Answer  as corroboration  to show that the five paid
accounts no longer appeared on the credit report. His admitted debts total $39,521. He
also provided an undated letter from a credit restoration company stating that Applicant
had hired them to resolve inaccurate and fraudulent information listed on his credit profile.
(Item 1; Item 2)
The SOR delinquent accounts are supported by Applicant’s admissions and credit
report in the record. (Item 2; Item 4; Item 5)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges an account with an $16,947 deficiency balance. Applicant said
this debt is related to his purchase of a vehicle. He had purchased a car and it started
having  mechanical  issues  he  could  not  afford  to  fix.  He  voluntarily  surrendered  the
vehicle. This debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  a  delinquent  account  with  a  cellular  service  company  in  the
amount of $2,644. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges an account placed for collection in the amount of $1,394. This
debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  a  delinquent  account  in  the  amount  of  $1,280.  This  debt  is
unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges an account placed for collection in the amount of $506. This
account is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  an account  placed  for  collection  in  the  amount of  $435.  This
account is unresolved.
SOR  ¶¶  1.g  and  1.h  allege  two  charged  off  accounts  (undisclosed  amount.)
Applicant admitted these charged off accounts.
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges a delinquent account with a collection company in the amount
of $5,150. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.j alleges a delinquent account from a payday loan company in the amount
of $315. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.k alleges a delinquent account with a property management company in
the amount of $2,358. This debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.l  alleges  a  delinquent  account  with  a  jewelry  store  in  the  amount  of
$2,261. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.m alleges an account placed for collection in the amount of $1,336. This
debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.n  alleges  a credit  union  account  charged  off  in  the  amount  of  $1,273.
Applicant denied this debt since he claimed to have paid it. He provided an April 2022
credit report that no longer shows this account on the report. He did not provide a receipt
or a statement from the creditor to show that he paid this account. This debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.o  alleges  an  account  placed  for  collection  in  the  amount  of  $771.
Applicant denied this debt since he claimed to have paid it. He provided an April 2022
credit report that no longer shows this account on the report. He did not provide a receipt
or a statement from the creditor to show that he paid this account. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.p alleges an account placed for collection by a utilities company in the
amount of $501. Applicant denied this debt since he claimed to have paid it. He provided
an April 2022 credit report that no longer shows this account on the report. He did not
provide a receipt or a statement from the creditor to show that he paid this account. This
debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.q  alleges  an  account  placed  for  collection  in  the  amount  of  $323.
Applicant denied this debt since he claimed to have paid it. He provided an April 2022
credit report that no longer shows this account on the report. He did not provide a receipt
or a statement from the creditor to show that he paid this account. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.r alleges an account placed for collection in the amount of $67. Applicant
denied this debt since he claimed to have paid it. He provided an April 2022 credit report
that  no  longer  shows  this  account  on  the  report.  He  did  not  provide  a  receipt  or  a
statement from the creditor to show that he paid this account. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.s alleges an account with an $4,895 deficiency balance for an unpaid car
loan. This debt is unresolved.
On February 7, 2022, Applicant completed an interrogatory concerning the status
of  his  finances.  He  disclosed  that  none  of  the  17  delinquent  accounts  listed  in  the
interrogatory had been paid, or that he had made any arrangements with the creditors to
pay the debt. He also completed a personal financial statement (PFS) which showed that
his monthly net income was $8,571. After deducting his monthly expenses of $7,560, he
had a monthly net remainder of $1,011. Despite his monthly net remainder, Applicant’s
PFS did not show any payments were being made to his delinquent creditors. (Item 4)
Applicant provided a February 2022 personal statement disclosing that his debts
accumulated over time and after years of living paycheck to paycheck. He has a son with
special needs, and there were occasions his wife had to take time off from work, or had
to quit her job, in order to take care of his son, which adversely affected their finances.
His son eventually went to school, and his wife returned to work. She was injured on the
job and received a settlement (year of accident and settlement  amount not disclosed.)
She was out of work for a year and she did not receive her full pay during this time. Now
that  she  is  recovered,  she  will  return  to  work.  They  plan  to  use  funds  from  his  wife’s
settlement to resolve or settle several of their delinquent debts. (Item 4)
