Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2000 and a master’s
degree in 2005. He has been employed by a federal contractor since November 2020.
He is also self-employed with his own business since August 2017. Except for a period
from May 2015 to August 2017, Applicant has worked for federal contractors since 2008.
He was married in 2004 and divorced in 2009. He does not have children. (Item 3)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in June 2021. In it, he
disclosed he has held a top secret security clearance since 2008. (Item 3)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged that in February 2012, Applicant was charged with operating a
vehicle while intoxicated and operating a vehicle with .10 blood alcohol content (BAC) in
State  A.  In  July  2021,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He
disclosed that in 2012 he was stopped by police after he had drinks at a bar. He could
not recall how many. He was arrested and later went to court and pleaded guilty to the
offense. He said his driver’s license was suspended for some time, but could not recall
for how long. He was required to pay a fine and perform community service. (Items 2, 3,
10)
Applicant disclosed in his SCA that in November 2015 he was arrested for driving
under the influence (DUI) of alcohol in State B. He was at a bar with friends and consumed
between four to five alcoholic beverages. He felt fine to drive. He was stopped by police
and  failed  a  breathalyzer  test.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI.  He  told  the  government
investigator  that  he  was  ordered  to  pay  a  fine,  complete  community  service,  and  his
license  was  suspended for three months. He  admitted SOR  ¶ 1.b that alleged he  was
charged with DUI in November 2015, found guilty and sentenced to five days in jail and
36 months probation. (Items 2, 3, 8, 9, 10)
In February 2017, Applicant was charged with driving when privilege suspended
for prior DUI conviction in State B. In May 2017, a bench warrant was issued against him
for this offense. It remains active as of the close of the record. (Items 8, 9)
In March 2017, an arrest warrant was issued from  State B where Applicant was
convicted of DUI in 2015, for failing to comply with the probation conditions. The warrant
remains active as of the close of the record. (Items 8, 9)
In December 2017, Applicant was charged in State C with leaving the scene of a
crash and driving while license revoked due to DUI. It appears he had a plea agreement
and  pleaded  guilty  or  no  contest  to  the  revocation  offense  and  received  a  30-day  jail
sentence, which was suspended, and a fine. (Item 4)
Applicant told the government investigator that in April 2019 he was at a friend’s
house and consumed between four and five alcoholic beverages. He was driving home
when he was in a one-car accident. According to the police report, Applicant was trapped
in the vehicle and the roof had to be cut off by the fire department to extricate him from it.
He was observed by the fireman on scene to be highly intoxicated. A check by the police
revealed Applicant’s license had been revoked for a previous DUI. The effective dates of
the revocation was from July 2016 to July 2019. Applicant refused consent to submit to a
blood test. The police obtained  a search  warrant  for Applicant’s  blood test results.  His
blood  alcohol  level  at  the  time  of  the  accident  was  .204%.  The  court  records  reflect
Applicant was charged with DUI in State C, driving while license revoked, and failure to
have insurance. He was convicted of the offenses. He received 2 days’ home confinement
for the DUI (one day suspended), 30 days’ home confinement for driving with a revoked
license, and fines for all three offenses. (Items 5, 10)
Applicant  told  the  government  investigator  that  he  does  not  believe  he  has  a
problem with alcohol. For his 2015 and 2019 DUI convictions, he was required to attend
court-ordered alcohol awareness classes. He said he no longer drinks and drives. He is
a social drinker and goes out about once a month or two months. He will consume two to
three alcoholic beverages and will not drive. He has no intention of drinking and driving
in the future. He said he will not drive even if he consumes one drink. (Item 10)
Applicant  disclosed  in his  SCA  that  from  January 2017  to  March  2017  he  used
cocaine  three  or  four  times  while  at  parties.  He  was  not  working  as  a  government
contractor  at  the  time.  He  told  the  government  investigator  that  he  stopped  using  it
because he did not like it and he did not intend to use it or any other illegal drug in the
future. (Items 3, 10)
SOR  ¶¶  3.a  through  3.j  alleged  delinquent  medical  accounts,  credit  cards,
communication  services,  utilities,  and  other  consumer  accounts  totaling  approximately
$35,249.  Applicant  admitted  them  all  in  his  SOR  answer.  He  told  the  government
investigator that he had some financial problems during the COVID pandemic when he
did not have enough work and fell behind on his bills. When the investigator confronted
him with his delinquent accounts he said he was unaware the accounts were delinquent,
and he would look into them and resolve them. These collection accounts are reported in
Applicant’s June 2021 and February 2022 credit bureau reports. Applicant did not provide
any  information  about  actions  he  may  have  taken  to  pay,  dispute,  or  resolve  these
accounts. (Items 2, 6, 7 10)
