Applicant is 27 years old.  He is unmarried with no children.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree.  He holds the position of Associate Software Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain
a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  the  use  of  controlled
substances  that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose;  and  can  raise  questions  about  his  reliability,
trustworthiness, and ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
The  SOR  alleges  that  from  May  2019  to  January  2022,  Applicant  has  used
marijuana with varying frequency.  Applicant stated that he would use marijuana about
eight  to  nine  times  a  month.  He  would  use  it  with  his  brother  and  their  friends.
Marijuana would make him feel calm and less irritated.  From about November 2021 to
about January 2022, Applicant has used marijuana about seven times after completing
his security clearance application dated November 16, 2021.  Applicant usually obtained
marijuana  from  co-workers,  or  at  school,  and  when  it  became  legal  in  his  state,  he
purchased  it  at  a  dispensary.  Applicant  has  never  received  any  treatment  for  drug
abuse.  People  who  know  about  his  marijuana  use  are  the  people  he  smokes  with.
Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
In  his  security  clearance  application  dated  November  16,  2021,  Applicant
explained that he uses marijuana for anxiety purposes induced by stress.  He normally
uses  it  on  weekends  about  twice  a  day.  Sometimes  he  over  thinks  situations  and
marijuana helps to prevent this.  He stated that he has no intent to use marijuana in the
future.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
During  an  interview  with  a  Federal  investigator  on  January  27,  2022,  Applicant
confirmed  his  use  of  marijuana  between  May  2019  and  January 22,  2022.  He  stated
that  he  last  used  it  at  a  techno  concert.  He  also  disclosed  that  since  completing  his
security  clearance  application  on  November  16,  2021,  he  has  continued  to  use
marijuana, at least seven times total.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
In  response  to  the  Government’s  interrogatories  dated  July  21,  2022,  Applicant
stated that he had no intent for future use of marijuana due to the nature of the job he
enjoys.  His job brings less stress to his life.  He is also motivated to live a healthier life.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
