In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  1.a-1.d,  and  denied
allegations ¶¶ 1.e-1.h with explanations. His admissions are incorporated into the findings
of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He has one child, who is a minor. He has worked as an
aerospace technician for a government contractor for the last two years. His SCA shows
that  he  has  been  consistently  employed  since  2008.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a
security clearance. (Item 4)
The SOR alleges eight delinquent debts totaling $31,240. The status of the debts
is as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a is an auto loan placed in collection for $22,321. The credit report shows
that it is now charged-off, and that he opened this loan in 2013. Applicant admitted the
debt and stated that it was the result of an auto accident in 2016. He reported that he was
in  the  process  of  changing  his auto  insurance  when  he  had  the  accident,  and  he  was
liable for paying the loan balance of the car that he wrecked. He stated that he stopped
making payments on the loan in 2016. He claims that the lender offered him a settlement
agreement, but he did not have the money at the time to accept it. He admitted that his
initial  plan  was  to  ignore  the  debt  until  it  dropped  off  his  credit  report,  but  he  came  to
realize that it was important to resolve to rehabilitate his credit score. He claimed that he
is saving money so that he can make a payoff offer. This debt is unresolved. (Answer;
Items 5, 6, 7)
SOR ¶¶  1.b-1.d  are student loans placed in collection totaling $6,305. The credit
report shows that the loans were opened in 2014 and 2015, and the date of last activity
was  November 2015.  On  his SCA, he  reported  taking  classes at a technical school in
2014.  Applicant  admitted  the  debts  and  stated  that  he  planned  to  apply  for  loan
forgiveness. If he does not get loan forgiveness, he plans to establish a payment plan.
These debts are unresolved. (Answer; Items 4, 5, 6, 7)
SOR ¶  1.e  is an account placed in collection for $1,405. The credit report shows
that it is a rental agreement that is now charged-off, which was opened in 2019, and the
date of last activity was in 2020. Applicant denied this debt and claimed that it was paid.
He claimed that he made a lump-sum payment on this debt in 2021 but did not provide
any documentation supporting his assertion. This debt is unresolved. (Answer; Items 5,
6, 7)
SOR ¶  1.f  is a credit-card account placed in collection for $953. The credit report
shows that it is now charged-off. It was opened in 2019, and the date of last activity was
in  2020.  Applicant  claimed  that  the  credit  card  was  obtained  for  his  fiancé  to  use  for
expenses related to their child. He claims that she did not tell him that she had used the
card and that a payment was due. He denies this debt and claims that it was paid but did
not  provide  any  documentation  supporting  his  assertion.  This  debt  is  unresolved.
(Answer; Items 5, 6, 7)
SOR ¶¶  1.g  and  1.h  are medical accounts placed in collection for $161 and $95,
respectively. Applicant denies these debts and claims that they were paid, but he did not
provide  any  documentation  supporting  his  assertion.  These  debts  are  unresolved.
(Answer; Items 5, 6)
In  his  January  2022  background  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he
claimed that his monthly net income is about $7,500, and his monthly expenses are about
$5,480. He was unsure about what happened to his monthly surplus. He reported that he
did not have a monthly budget, but he planned to make one. He stated that he did not
intend to have delinquent debt. He asserted that he was trying to live within his means,
and help people before himself. (Item 5)
In his SOR Answer, Applicant did not provide any documentation concerning his
current financial situation, such as his monthly income and expenses, and his assets. He
provided no evidence that he has received credit counseling. Since 2018, he has taken
four international vacations, once to Mexico and three times to Costa Rica. (Items 4, 5).
