Applicant is a 51-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked  since  1999.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  1989.  He  was  married  from
2006 until February 2017, when he finalized his divorce. He served on active duty with
the U.S. Marines from 1991 until 1994, when he received an honorable discharge.  He
resides  with  his  girlfriend,  to  whom  he  is  engaged  to  be  married.  He  has  two  adult
children. (Tr. 15-18, 27; GE 1)
At all times relevant to this proceeding, marijuana purchase, possession, and use
has  been  illegal  under  federal  law.  Federal  laws  regarding  marijuana  supersede  any
state  laws  that  are  inconsistent  with  it.  Applicant  was  granted  access  to  classified
information at all times relevant hereto. (Tr. 17; GE 1, 2)
In  about  February  2020,  Applicant  traveled  about  45  miles  from  home  to
purchase marijuana from a dispensary in State A, where it was sold legally under state
law. In February and March 2020, he used marijuana on weekend nights a total of about
16  times  in  order  to  help  him  sleep.  He  did  not  report  his  marijuana  purchase,
possession, or use to his employer or facility security officer (FSO) until he realized that
he would likely be caught for this use. Any adverse information not alleged in the SOR,
such as Applicant’s failure to report his marijuana purchase, possession, and use to his
employer  or  FSO,  cannot  be  used  for  disqualification  purposes.  It  may  be  considered
when  assessing  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions  and  for  the  whole-person
analysis. On March 24, 2020, he underwent a random drug test through his employer.
Prior to the test, he told his employer that he did not believe that he would pass the drug
test because he had been using marijuana. He tested positive for marijuana after taking
this  drug  test.  As  a  result  of  his  marijuana  use  and  positive  drug  test,  his  employer
created  an  incident  report  in  the  Defense  Information  System  for Security  (DISS).  (Tr.
18-22, 34-35, 37; Answer; GE 1, 2; AE A)
While   using   marijuana,  Applicant   knew   it  was  illegal  to   do   so.   Since   1999,   he
received   annual  training   regarding   his  responsibilities  as  a   security   clearance   holder
with   respect  to   illegal  drugs.  He  knew   that   using   marijuana   violated   the   conditions   of
holding  his security  clearance  and  the  terms of  his employment.  He knew  that  he  was
subject   to   random   drug   testing.  Applicant  has  sleep   apnea   and   other  unspecified
ailments.  He claimed  he  used  marijuana  despite  knowing  it was illegal and  incompatible
with   holding   a   security  clearance,   because   he   was  desperate   to   get  quality   sleep.  His
girlfriend  recommended  that he  try m  arijuana  for his sleeping  problems. A doctor did not
recommend   or  prescribe   him   marijuana.   He  did  try   other  prescription   and   non-
prescription  medications to  help  him  sleep  before resorting  to  marijuana.  (Tr.  15-19, 31-
34, 36; Answer)
As  a  result  of  his  positive  drug  test,  instead  of  terminating  him,  Applicant’s
employer  suspended  him  without  pay  until  he  completed  a  substance  abuse  program
(SAP).  On  May  2,  2020,  he  completed  an  SAP.  The  SAP  consisted  of  three  group
meetings a week for 30 days. His employer also placed him on probation for 24 months.
While  he  was  on  probation,  he  could  not  be  promoted.  His  employer  required  him  to
take   monthly   drug   tests   for  38   months.   His  employer  also  had   him   enter  into   a   “Last
Chance   Agreement”  whereby   he   acknowledged   that  any   recurrence   of  inappropriate
behavior  would  result   in  his  immediate   termination   of  employment.   After  his  initial
positive   drug   test,   all   of   his  subsequent   monthly   drug   tests  have   had   negative   results.
After he  completes 38 months of monthly  drug  tests,  Applicant will be  subject  to  random
drug   tests.   Applicant  is  no   longer  on   probation.  He   was  promoted   at   work  once   he
became   eligible.   He  claimed   that  he   will   never  use   marijuana   again  and   that  he   is
“scared   to   death”  because   of  all   the   trouble   it  has   caused   him.   (Tr.   22-24,   36-37;
Answer; GE  1, 2; AE A, B)
From  about  January  2022  until  he  received  the  SOR  in  March  2022,  Applicant
purchased  marijuana  for  his  girlfriend  on  three  separate  occasions.  He  purchased  the
marijuana  at  the  same  dispensary  in  State  A  from  which  he  purchased  marijuana  for
himself in 2020. He claimed that he purchased the marijuana instead of his girlfriend as
he  received  a  discount  because  he  is  a  military  veteran.  He  claimed  he  did  not
understand  that  purchasing marijuana  is illegal.  He  thought  that  he  was  doing nothing
wrong as long as he was not using marijuana.  He claimed that his annual training, his
SAP and his Last Chance Agreement did not inform him that purchasing marijuana was
inappropriate or illegal. There is no documentary evidence in the record relating to this
training, the SAP, or the Last Chance Agreement. He claimed that after he received the
SOR,  he  realized  that  purchasing  marijuana  is  illegal,  so  he  stopped  purchasing
marijuana and wants nothing more to do with it. (Tr. 24-35, 37)
Applicant’s girlfriend has used marijuana recreationally for at least six years and
plans to continue to use it. She has used it a couple  of times per week. She has kept
the  marijuana  in  the  home  she  shares  with  Applicant,  but  has  used  it  on  the  property
outside the house. She has used it while Applicant is home.  Applicant claimed that he
does not monitor her use and “just stay(s) away from it.” (Tr. 24-35)
Applicant  provided  character  reference  letters  from  two  co-workers  who  know
him  noting  his
trustworthiness,  strong  character,
selflessness, and good work ethic. They also note that he cares for his family and has
always  provided  for  them.  His  employer  awarded  him  a  certificate  of  recognition  in
March 2022 for his significant contribution to a work project. (AE A, B)
reliability,  professionalism,
Under Guideline H, the  SOR alleged  Applicant’s purchase  and use  of marijuana
in February and March 2020 while holding a security clearance. The SOR also alleged
Applicant’s March 2020 failed drug test and the resultant punishment from his employer.
He admitted the SOR allegations with additional comment. (SOR; Answer)
