Applicant is 48  years old and is married with two adult children.  He has a high
school diploma and some college.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Lead
Supervisor Janitorial.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
On  October  21,  2013,  Applicant  was  granted  a  Top  Secret  security  clearance.
He  is  currently  working  for  two  defense  contractors.  He  began  working  for  defense
contractor A in January 2017, where he works part-time.  He began working for defense
contractor  B  in  November  2018,  who  is  currently  sponsoring  him  for  a  security
clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  three  creditors  totaling
approximately $21,000, for delinquent accounts that have been charged off.  Applicant
admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  November  7,  2020;  December  27,  2021;  and  August  15,  2022,  confirm  the
indebtedness.
The following delinquent debts remain owing:
1.a.     A   delinquent  debt  is  owed   to   a   bank   for  an   account   that  was  charged   off   in  the
approximate  amount of $12,199.  There is no  evidence  to  show that  Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.   The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A  delinquent debt is owed  to  a  creditor for an  account that was charged  off  in the
approximate  amount of $5,521.  There is no  evidence  to  show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.   The debt remains owing.
1.c.    A   delinquent  debt  is  owed   to   a   bank  for  an   account  that  was  charged   off   in  the
approximate  amount of $3,139.  There is no  evidence  to  show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.   The debt remains owing.
On November 18, 2020, during  Applicant’s interview with  a Federal investigator,
he stated that he incurred medical bills in 2016, and has had past car trouble that have
caused financial difficulties.  It is not clear whether these conditions caused his current
financial indebtedness, since there is nothing else in the record that explains why he is
excessively delinquently indebted.
Applicant  stated  that  he  intends  to  work  with  the  creditors  in  good  faith  and
establish payment arrangements as soon as possible.  He failed to submit any evidence
in mitigation.  There is nothing more in the record to show that he has taken any action
toward resolving his debts.
