Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h with explanations.
He denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  55  years  old.  He  married  in  2003  and  has  one  child.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 1993. He has worked for federal contractors since May 2010, except
for  periods  of  unemployment  for  three  months  in  2013  and  from  November  2011  to
January 2013, when he worked for a commercial business. He has worked for his current
employer, a federal contractor, since August 2019. (Tr. 17)
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d  alleged  alcohol-related  conduct  from  January  2007
through  October  2009,  which  Applicant  testified  about  during  his  2012  hearing.
Applicant’s Counsel stated he did not intend to rehash this information, standing on the
prior testimony and findings of fact. (Tr. 22) I have incorporated my findings of fact for
those allegations from my earlier decision as stated below. They are verbatim from my
decision. (GE 6) The SOR allegations in the earlier decision are as follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a   alleged  that  in  about  January  2007,  Applicant  resigned  from
employment because he had used a company laptop to view pornography while he was
under the influence of alcohol and on temporary duty with his employment.
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged that after seven days of inpatient treatment for alcohol abuse in
about July 2007, Applicant declined to follow his treatment provider’s advice to enroll in
an intensive outpatient program (IOP). He did not attend the IOP until March 2008.
SOR  ¶   1.c  alleged  that  in  about  September  2009,  Applicant  received  inpatient
treatment for alcohol abuse for about 17 days.
SOR ¶  1.d alleged that in about October 2009, Applicant overindulged in alcohol
during a business trip to a foreign country and failed to attend any meetings during an
entire week. He was fired from his job soon thereafter.
The  following  findings  of  facts  below  relate  to  the  above  allegations  that  were
addressed during Applicant’s first hearing and are also alleged on his later SOR.
Applicant did not struggle with alcohol abuse until approximately 2006. Around that
time, his employer initiated an investigation into suspicious activity regarding Applicant’s
company’s  laptop  computer.  He  was  on  administrative  leave  for  six  weeks  until  the
investigation was completed. Specifically, the investigation involved Applicant allegedly
accessing pornography on the computer. He admitted to surfing the web and accessing
adult pornography. The investigation also revealed there were seven to eight personal
photos of a sexual nature on his computer.
Applicant  was  devastated.  While  he  was  at  home  on  administrative  leave,  he
worried and began to drink alcohol during the mornings and afternoons. He was permitted
to return to his work facility  but could not have access to the government network. He
became frustrated and continued to drink alcohol. In approximately December 2006, the
investigation was completed. In January 2007, the results of the investigation determined
that Applicant was surfing the internet for adult pornography on his company computer,
and there were some private personal photos also on the computer. His employer gave
him the option to resign or be terminated. He chose to resign. His wife was aware of his
inappropriate use of his computer.
Applicant  looked  for  a  new  job  and  continued  to  drink  alcohol.  He  was  hired  in
approximately  March  or  April  2007  and  worked  until  July  2007.  In  June  2007,  he  was
advised  that  his  security  clearance  was  reinstated.  During  this  period  of  time,  he
continued to drink alcohol, but stated his consumption was reduced.
Applicant was aware at this point that his drinking had become problematic. He
thought  he  needed  professional  help.  He  sought  help  from  the  county  mental-health
center for depression and alcohol consumption. He was diagnosed as an alcohol abuser.
He received some treatment but had to leave the facility because his health insurance
would not cover the cost of treatment.
Applicant stated he was aware that something in his life had to change, and in July
2007, he received inpatient treatment at an alcohol treatment center and was diagnosed
with  alcohol  withdrawal  and  dependence.  He  voluntarily  sought  this  treatment.  The
normal course of inpatient treatment is 14 to 28 days. Applicant’s health insurance would
only pay for eight to nine days. He was isolated from external factors while he was an
inpatient, so he progressed through treatment. He was discharged and went back to work
with  his former employer.  He  was  told  by  the  treatment  counselor to  participate  in  the
follow-up  outpatient  program.  He  attended  a  couple  of  Alcoholic  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings  and  some  of  the  program’s  aftercare  sessions,  but  he  did  not  participate
regularly or consistently in either. He casually began to resume drinking alcohol and did
not perceive he was having any problems. He stated he did not consume alcohol for two
and half weeks after his discharge.
From  January  2008  to  June  2009,  Applicant  received  treatment  from  the  state
psychiatric services for depression and alcohol dependence. The treatment consisted of
a  six-week  IOP,  follow-up  meetings  with  a  physician  and  weekly  aftercare  meetings.
Applicant  admitted  he  participated  only  intermittently  and  discontinued  at  some  point
because he was back at work.
In August 2009, Applicant’s consumption of alcohol began increasing. He had an
incident  at  work  where  he  failed  to  report  for  two  days  without  telling  his  customer  or
employer. He stayed out of work for a couple of more days while he arranged to go back
into treatment. His wife was unaware that he was staying home and not going to work. In
September 2009, he received inpatient treatment again and completed the full course of
treatment. He resumed drinking casually around October 2009 when he and his family
went  on  vacation.  In  November  2009,  Applicant  and  a  coworker  traveled  to  a  foreign
country to provide two weeks of training to that country’s military. Applicant participated
in  the  first  week  of  training.  He  began  drinking  alcohol  the  second  week  and  made
excuses to his coworker that he was not feeling well enough to work. He would stay at
the hotel during the day and continue to drink alcohol. His employer learned of his actions,
and he was terminated.
Applicant was depressed and drinking. In February 2010, Applicant stated he got
seriously involved in his recovery. He began looking for a job. He resumed his attendance
of AA meetings and was working with a sponsor a couple of times a week. He admitted
to himself he had a serious problem with alcohol dependence. Applicant stated he did not
drink any alcohol from February 2010 until May 2011.
In  late  April  2011,  Applicant’s  community  experienced  a  devastating  tornado.
Because  they  were  without  electricity,  they  cooked  on outdoor grills.  On  May 1,  2011,
they learned that the terrorist Osama Bin Laden had been killed. His neighbor brought out
a bottle of alcohol to pass around as a toast in celebration. Applicant stated he took a
swig from the bottle. He stated he did not really think about it. His old pattern of thought
came to  him,  and  he  thought  perhaps  it  was okay  to  have  a drink  now and  again.  He
wrestled with whether to tell his AA sponsor. He decided to tell his sponsor and recommit
to the AA program. He credibly testified at his first hearing that he had not consumed any
alcohol since May 1, 2011.
Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  stubborn  about  his  recovery.  He  finally  got  to  a
point where he got tired of his struggle with alcohol. He chose to live a life of principles
and  sobriety. He had the  support  of AA, his family, and his friends.  It  was an ongoing
process. Applicant stated at his first hearing that although he was not consuming alcohol,
he had to pay attention every day and be mindful of his recovery. He had accepted that
he is an alcoholic. He attended AA meetings a couple of times a week. He talked to his
sponsor. He helped organize and participated in meetings at the treatment center where
he attended. At that time, he attended at least two AA meetings a week sometimes he
attended three to five meetings, depending on his schedule. He completed the 12-step
program  of  AA  and  was  continuing to  work through  the  steps  again.  As  he  got  further
away from his last drink there was less of a daily struggle, but he continued to be vigilant.
He said he was committed to staying sober each day. Applicant stated:
I’d   like   to   give   you   100   percent  assurances  that  I  will   never  take   a   drink
again. And  I  feel the  chances are  very close  to  that  if  I continue  to  do  what
I’ve   become   comfortable  with   doing   on   a   daily  basis  and,   you   know,
practicing   these   principles.   And   I’ve   got  a   good   support  system   both   AA
based and family and friend based. And I  feel confident about that.
Applicant’s wife  became aware that his drinking was becoming problematic and
his consumption was increasing. She was supportive in his sobriety and attended a three-
day program for family members of alcoholics provided by his treatment center to educate
her on how to help him with his sobriety and recovery. She also attended Al-Anon when
she felt she needed the support. She believed Applicant had difficulties believing he was
a good husband and father, and so he would drink. She was convinced her husband was
committed to sobriety. He made a commitment to be employed and was fully vested in
his efforts to change his ways. She believed he now realized how much he lost and was
remorseful about his past actions. She believed because he knew how much he had to
lose, he would continue to remain sober. She noticed a significant change in him since
he acknowledged his problems and committed to sobriety. She and her husband  were
communicating  better. She  supported  him  when  he  wanted  to  go  to  AA  meetings  and
never questioned him in that regard. (GE 6)
The following facts are from Applicant’s recent hearing. In his March 2020 security
clearance  application  (SCA),  Applicant  disclosed  his  2007  seven-day  inpatient  alcohol
treatment and his 2008 six-week IOP follow-up for alcohol abuse. He further disclosed
his September 2009 inpatient alcohol treatment and counseling for 17 days. He disclosed
that in August 2019, he completed a 21-day inpatient alcohol and treatment counseling
program and a follow up IOP for 12 session, each lasting three to four hours. He reported
ongoing attendance at a follow-up continuing care meeting once a week for an hour and
that he is participating in a 12-step recovery program. (GE 1)
In May 2020, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He said that
in 2014, his AA sponsor passed away and he did not obtain a new sponsor. In 2016, he
started  drinking  again.  From  spring  2016  to  October  2018,  his  alcohol  consumption
progressed to where he was drinking daily. He testified that he was drinking daily between
a ½ pint and a fifth of liquor. He testified that he struggles with his drinking when he has
challenges. He would occasionally drink in the morning but would then not go to work. He
would sometimes stay away from work for a couple of days. He would occasionally leave
work early so he could drink. He would not drink at home. He said things had gotten very
bad at work because his drinking was affecting his motivation. His wife was not aware of
his drinking. He would hide his liquor in the garage. (Tr. 25-27, 79-86; GE 3, 7)
In October 2018, he recognized he needed to get back on track with his sobriety.
He voluntarily enrolled in a four-day detoxification program. He told the investigator that
he was sober for about two months. He said he thought he just needed the detoxification
program and a new AA sponsor, and he would be back on track. Applicant admitted at
his hearing that he left the detoxification program early. Post-hearing, he later clarified
that it was because his insurance would only authorize payment  for four days. He was
encouraged by the staff to stay, but he left against their medical advice. The discharge
summary notes that he did not want to stay in the program beyond the four days. He said
he was leaving due to commitments to family, work, and his long-term AA program outside
of the medical facility. In December 2018, he went on a cruise and started drinking again.
He began increasing his alcohol consumption and frequency and by August 2019, he was
consuming alcohol daily. He continued to hide his drinking from his wife and lie to her. He
did not think there was any specific stressor going on in his life at the time that prompted
him to drink. (Tr. 27-31, 76-77, 88-95, 100-101; GE 3, 4, 7; AE K)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  in  August  2019,  he  decided  the  four-day
detoxification program he participated in October 2018, did not work. Applicant voluntarily
enrolled in a 21-day inpatient alcohol treatment program. He told the investigator that he
successfully completed the program and a follow-on outpatient program, which involved
12 sessions, each lasting three to four hours. He also participated in continuing care once
a  week  and  AA  meetings  twice  a  week.  He  said  he  had  not  consumed  alcohol  since
August 2019. He said he felt like he was back where he needed to be and it was not a
struggle or an issue to remain sober. He had not participated in any additional alcohol-
related counseling or treatment at that time. (Tr. 32-33, 87; GE 7)
Applicant testified that after August 2019 he had an AA sponsor and stayed sober
until November 2020, when he was preparing a meal and one of the ingredients was red
wine. He took a gulp of the wine. He said within seven days he had progressed to daily
drinking. He estimated he was drinking between a pint and a fifth of bourbon  daily. He
was in a state of depression and despair. He had been participating in AA but started to
slack off. He entered alcohol treatment and was in a 21-day inpatient treatment program.
He did not contact his AA sponsor when he started to drink again but waited until he was
admitted into the inpatient program. (Tr. 34-39, 85-86)
Applicant testified that he has been sober since November 11, 2020. He testified
about what has changed. He said he is now plugged in with AA and is consistent with his
attendance. His 2020 treatment was organized differently, and he is now with a group of
men around his age. He felt there was a deeper sense of the spiritual side of recovery,
where  he  is  more  focused.  He  is  following  the  12-step  AA  program  and  is  being
responsible  as a trusted  servant. He  is  now more active  in the program  and  serves  in
different positions, including being a chairman for monthly business meetings. He said he
is also a sponsor for three others who reach out to him. He attends 3 to 5 meetings per
week and in the past attended 7 to 12 meetings a week. He provided attendance sheets
from  his  AA  meetings  to  corroborate  his  meeting  attendance  from  December  2020  to
January 2023. (Tr. 39-44, 99, 105; AE J)
Applicant acknowledged that he cannot give 100% assurance that he will not drink
in the future. He acknowledged he has a disease and that if he consumes one drink it will
set off a cycle of destructive behavior. He is not sure if he consumes alcohol again if he
will be able to recover and that scares him. He has a responsibility to his family and his
employer, which he takes seriously. He said he has the support of his family, friends, and
coworkers who know he is working on his sobriety. (Tr. 42-46, 56, 107-108)
Applicant testified that in 2005 he was prescribed Norco, a painkiller, by his family
doctor, due to a sciatic problem with his back. The prescription is to take one tablet twice
a day as needed for pain. In the last five years, he estimated he takes it about two to three
times a week on average and only if Ibuprofen does not work. He will usually take half a
tablet, but if the pain is severe, he will take the full tablet twice a day, as prescribed. He
credibly  testified  that  he  does  not  use  it  for  any  other  purposes.  He  knows  that  as  an
alcoholic it could be dangerous with his brain chemistry. He said that he has never felt a
compulsion to attempt to increase its effect. He stated that alcohol is one thing and opiates
are another. He disputed that when he was admitted for alcohol treatment in 2019 that he
said he took more Norco than was prescribed. He stated what he told the medical staff
was that he took more than he usually takes, but not more than was prescribed.  He is
aware drugs and alcohol do not mix and he does not use them beyond what is prescribed.
Applicant has not discussed his alcoholism with his family doctor. Applicant’s doctor who
prescribes  the  medication  provided  a  written  statement  regarding  Applicant’s  use.  He
confirmed Applicant has used it for many years, and he does not have any concern that
he  is  abusing  it.  I  found  Applicant’s  statement  credible  that  he  did  not  exceed  the
prescribed dosage. (Tr. 51-55, 59-74; AE D)
Applicant  participated  in  a  psychological  evaluation  by  a  government-employed
psychologist, Dr. F, in August 2021. The interview lasted approximately eight hours and
was  conducted  in  person.  Dr.  F  provided  a  detailed  narrative  that  for  the  most  part
coincides with the facts of Applicant’s past alcohol abuse. Dr. F diagnosed Applicant with
major depressive disorder, recurrent, exacerbated by grief/loss in sustained remission;
and alcohol use disorder, severe in sustained remission. He believed Applicant is more
committed to working his AA program this time around and to saving his family and career.
He  believes  he  has  a  much  better  support  groups  in  AA,  his  worksite  coworkers  plus
management,  and  his  family  and  friends.  Applicant  understands  the  triggers  to  his
relapse. His prognosis  is good,  and  Dr. F did  not find   Applicant’s alcohol abuse  would
have  a  negative  impact on  his reliability, stability, judgment,  or trustworthiness. (Tr. 47-
50; GE 3)
Applicant participated in a one-hour Zoom evaluation by a government-employed
psychologist,  Dr.  B,  in  February  2022.  Applicant  said  he  told  Dr.  B  that  he  had  been
evaluated in August 2021, and she told him that this evaluation must be a follow-up check-
in conversation. Dr. B described Applicant as evasive. He answered her questions and
was not sure how much detail she wanted because he was told it was a wellness check.
Dr. B indicated she gave Applicant the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) test and
the validity scales indicated he was consistent in his responding, and did not attempt to
over or under report symptoms or behaviors that individuals commnly admit to. However,
she found that certain aspects of the profile raise the possibility of denial problems with
drinking and drug abuse. Dr. B diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use disorder, severe;
major depressive disorder, recurrent, unspecified severity; generalized anxiety disorder;
opioid disorder; tobacco use disorder; pornography addiction R/O, which means rule out.
She  did  not  find  Applicant  truthful  during  the  interview  She  derived  her  diagnostic
impressions primarily from her clinical judgment and medical record review. She found
Applicant may be unreliable or untrustworthy, impulsive, engage in dangerous activities,
or take unnecessary risks and his prognosis is poor. (Tr. 47-50; GE 2)
Applicant’s wife testified. She has tried to support her husband. She believes he
has been sober for more than two years and is actively participating in AA. His drinking
has been stressful on their marriage. In the past, she was confident that he would maintain
his sobriety, but believes this time he is dedicated and committed to it. She has never
observed  him abuse Norco  and does not  believe  he abuses  it. She believes he has a
disease that only he can control. He is a good man and wants to do the right thing. She
has known he is an alcoholic since about 2006. Most of the time he would not divulge to
her he was drinking. He would not tell her the truth about his drinking. She would bring
his drinking to his attention and remove the alcohol from the house, but she could not
stop him. (Tr. 110-122)
Applicant’s AA sponsor testified on his behalf. He has been his sponsor for about
three or four years. He said Applicant is doing great and attends a lot of meetings. They
get together about once or twice a month and see each other at meetings. He believes
Applicant’s sobriety is solid  and he  is a man  of integrity. Applicant has followed his AA
plan, but has stumbled when he relapsed in 2020. Since then, he has been in compliance.
Applicant has sought assistance from his sponsor. (Tr. 123-130)
A  character  witness  testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance for 25 years. He was Applicant’s supervisor who fired him in 2009 when he was
drinking  on  a  work  trip  in  a  foreign  country.  He  was  offered  an  opportunity  to  rehire
Applicant for a specific contract and chose not to because he wanted to see how he was
performing  elsewhere.  A  couple  of  years  later,  he  noted  a  change  in  Applicant  and
believed he was in a good spot and was low risk. He rehired him in July 2019. He is now
a level above Applicant’s supervisor. Applicant is doing well at his job, and he does not
have a concern about him having access to classified information. (Tr. 24, 131-141)
Applicant’s  facility  security  officer  testified  on  his  behalf.  They  have  worked
together since 1998. She is aware of the concerns about his issues with alcohol. He has
been upfront with her and self-reported his issues. When he went back into treatment in
November 2020, he talked to her about it. She believes he is a person of integrity. He is
professional  and  meticulous  in  his  work.  She  does  not  have  concerns  about  his
alcoholism. (143-148)
Character letters were provided from Applicant’s sister and longtime friend. He is
described as intelligent, reliable, dependable, and beloved. They believe that Applicant is
totally committed to his sobriety this time because he is immersed in AA and more active
and determined. (AE H, I)
Applicant  provided  his  employee  performance  evaluations  for  2020,  2021,  and
2022. He is consistently evaluated in the different performance categories as  excellent
and outstanding. (AE A, B, C)
