After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 65 years old, married (since 1977), with two adult sons. He earned his
bachelor’s degree in 2002. He has owned his home since 1996. He has been employed
by  his  corporate  clearance  sponsor  since  February  1986.  He  currently  holds  a  secret
clearance,  granted  in  June  2011.  He  has  never  been  denied  a  clearance.  He  has  no
financial delinquencies or defaults, other than the failure to file three years of federal tax
income tax returns, as alleged below. (Item 2.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant failed to file federal income tax
returns for tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020. (Item 1S.) He admitted that allegation with a
detailed text explaining why he is tardy filing his tax returns. (Item 1A.) The following is a
synopsis in his words of the salient points of his Answer.
Non filing of returns for 2018, 2019, and 2020
I have listed procrastination as the reason . . . More correctly I should have called
this, “Not enough time to get it all done”. . . My unfiled taxes are not the greatest priority
for the following reasons. I always have greater withholding done from my income so that
I am guaranteed a sizable refund . . . I do not ever come up short on taxes paid so I do
not ever incur a shortage of tax already paid, or interest and penalties. For me, the IRS
is always a savings account that pays me back my money when I do get around to filing
taxes.
These are some things that occupy my time and do not allow me to do things I
would prefer to be getting done, like taxes, in a timely manner.
Work  schedule  at  [my  employer]  demands  from  me  to  work  50-60  (and
sometimes more) hours each week. A lot of work and not enough people are the main
reason for this. I was not able to take the vacation this year that I wanted to because . . .
management  [could]  not  let  me  go  because  of  schedule  demands.  I  finally  did  get
approval for one week this year. Because of this I had to forfeit 140 hours of vacation . . .
and have it paid out to me . . . .
Death of two family members, Father-in-Law 2016 and Aunt 2018. I was made
executor  of  both  of  their  estates  .  .  .  trustee  of  .  .  .  [father-in-law’s]  trust.  My  wife  is
incapable of  handling  her father’s financial affairs due  to  her mental abilities (more  on  that
later). So  it  was left  to  me  to  get  [it]  done. My  wife  has no  siblings .  .  . It  takes  a  lot  of time
To  do   this, especially   if   you   have   never   done   this  type   of   thing   before   .  .  .  [Y]ou  must
locate  the required documentation which is the biggest use  of time.
Care of disabled wife. In 1999 my wife suffered from a brain tumor the size of a golf ball.
She had three brain surgeries and extensive radiation treatments. She survived this and
is still alive,  despite her doctors saying she would  not  live  past  two  years. Well,  thank
God, she is still alive, but at the cost of diminished mental capacity, making her 100%
disabled. She used to be a very smart [professional], but now, she is not. She was doing
reasonably  well  considering  what  she  went  through,  but  now  twenty  years  later,  her
mental abilities are going further downhill. She has . . . an infection where the bone in her
skull has died off in a several inches square area. This is because the radiation treatment
back in 1999 and now the infection defies treatment . . . After seeing several . . . specialists
. . . , she was referred to [a hospital] for surgery that her doctor here says is going to be
a big deal (his words) and will require a multi-discipline surgery team to cut out the dead,
infected bone, and now at a later date, replace  it with a titanium plate. She was finally
scheduled . . . for brain surgery. Every time I take her to the doctor, I must make up the
time at my job because schedules here wait for no one . . . I was lucky to receive two
weeks of FMLA from my employer . . . My wife has now undergone the surgery to cut out
the dead infected bone from her head on Feb. 25, 2022. She was on the neurosurgery
floor . . . for 7 days. When she returned home, I as her caregiver had to swap out the IV
bag  and  change  the  IV  infusion  lines  that  delivered  antibiotics  into  her body  via  an  IV
pump, to stop the infection in her head, every day for six weeks. Except for the two weeks
of FMLA leave, I had to work and at the same time perform the medical care for my wife
. . . to fight the infection.
Now  another medical problem  for my  wife. She  is scheduled  to  undergo  surgery  for her
colon  on June 15th  at 6:00  AM because of severe diverticulitis. She will be in  the hospital
for four days and  she  may  end  up  with  a  colostomy  . . . The  faster I go, the  behinder  [sic]
I get.
I  have  20  acres  of  property  to  maintain.  [Here,  Applicant  explained  that  he  alone
maintains his property. His two sons have moved away with their families to pursue their
own careers.]
I assure  you  I  will file my  tax  forms and  get my  tax  refunds, for overpayment,  as soon  as
I can  muster up  the  time  to  do  so. Not doing  my  taxes is a  time  problem  and  not  an  ability
to  pay  taxes problem. I have  paid my  taxes. I have  just  not filed  and  gotten  the  refund  I
will be  entitled to when I do get around to  filing.  (Emphasis in original.)  (Item  1A.)
In his Personal Subject Interview, Applicant stated: “I usually do several returns in
batch mode once I get into the mode of doing taxes and I do not ever come up short on
taxes paid, and I do not ever incur a shortage of tax already paid or interest and for me
the IRS is always a savings account that pays me back my money when I do get around
to filing my taxes.” (Item 3.)
Applicant’s IRS Account Transcripts for tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020 show no
tax balances owed or refunds due for those years. That is likely, however, because he
has not filed returns, which would show income earned and applicable deductions. (Item
4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  A2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for
access  to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor  of  the  national  security.”  In
reaching this decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical,
and based  on  the  evidence  contained  in the  record. Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing
inferences grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
