Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 62 years old. He graduated from high school and completed various
certifications. He never married and has no children. He has been employed by a federal
contractor since December 2020.
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in September 2021. In
it, he disclosed that from 1975 until April 2021 he used marijuana about once a week. He
stated, “Used for pain relief, about ½ oz. per year in use.” He stated he did not intend to
use marijuana in the future because “could effect working on the Fed side of [X] business.”
(Item 3). X is Applicant’s present employer.
Applicant also disclosed in his SCA that he used cocaine periodically from 1975 to
June 2017. He also said in his SCA that he quit using cocaine three years ago, which is
inconsistent with the dates he provided. He used it weekly in the 1970s. He said, “quit for
many years then [sporadic]. I have quit with no plans to start again.” (Item 3). He said the
reason he stopped using cocaine was because it is “bad for your health and it is bad for
your career.” (Item 3)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in October 2021. He told
the investigator that he used marijuana from 1975 to 1985 and then resumed using it in
2010 until April 2021. For the past ten years he used marijuana at home and before then
he used it while out with friends. His more  recent use consisted of taking  “a hit” before
bed if he could not sleep. He purchased marijuana in the past seven years and his last
purchase was June 2020. He purchased it through a friend. He purchased it so he could
use it to help him sleep. He said he did not intend to purchase marijuana in the future. He
continues to socialize with friends who use marijuana, but said he does not use it with
them. He uses it alone. He told the investigator he stopped using it to keep his job. (Item
4)
Applicant told the investigator that he used cocaine monthly or quarterly. He would
use up to maybe half of a gram. It made him happy. He would use it at his house or his
friends or hanging out at a party. He has not purchased cocaine in the last seven years.
He explained his motivation was for acceptance. It was around him so he used it too. He
used it with his brother and a friend. He said he no longer associates with those he used
cocaine with. He did not elaborate on whether he no longer has contact with his brother.
He  said  he  has  changed  his  behavior  to  prevent  future  use.  He  did  not  explain  what
behavior he changed or how. He said he quit using cocaine because he has grown “too
old” to continue using it. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he provided details about the type of work
he does for his employer. He explained he does not talk about his work to anyone outside
of work. He was willing to submit to random drug testing. He said his trustworthiness and
reliability  has  never  been  questioned.  He  would  never  do  anything  to  jeopardize  his
career,  country,  or  family.  He  noted  his  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations. He stated, “I am a law abiding citizen and although I have had issues in the
past,  I  have  worked  very  hard  to  turn  those  issues  around.  This  includes  going  to  AA
meetings,  talking  with  professionals,  seeking  professional  help  as  needed.”  He  further
stated that he does not intend to travel outside of the country. (AE A)
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for disqualifying purposes, but may be considered when applying the mitigating conditions
and in a whole-person analysis.
