Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2018. He is not married
and has no children. He has been employed by a federal contractor since July 2018. (Item
3)
In June 2016, Applicant was employed as a summer intern for a company that had
random drug testing. He was terminated the same month for testing positive for marijuana
on a random drug test. He explained that he had used marijuana several weeks prior to
starting the job. (Items 3, 5)
In October 2021, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA). In it
he disclosed that from 2013 to October 2021, he occasionally used marijuana about once
every two months on average from 2013 to 2014; once every two weeks while attending
college from 2014 to 2018, more frequently during the school year and less frequently
during the summer months; and once a month on average from 2020 to 2021. (Item 3)
Applicant stated in his SCA the following:
I inten[d]  to  use  THC  on  occasional frequency  in the  future provided  nothing
regarding  my  employment responsibilities changes. One  potential impact to
my   employment  responsibilities  would  be   the   successful   obtainment  of  a
Federal Security   Clearance.  In   this case,  I  would  refrain  from   using   THC
while in possession of  the clearance. (Item  3)
Applicant disclosed that he purchased marijuana illegally from people he knew in
his hometown and at college about once every two months from 2013 to 2018. It was not
legal in his state when he purchased it. (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed on his SCA that he used hallucinogenic drugs five times. He
used LSD twice in 2014 and once in 2020 and mushrooms once in 2017 and 2019. He
stated he does not intend to use these drugs in the future because it does not appeal to
him and the risks of using them are too high. (Item 3)
Additionally,  Applicant  disclosed  that  from  2015  to  September  2020  he  used
cocaine eight times. It was provided by someone else and he consumed it through his
nose. He reported that five of his uses were in college, then twice in late 2018 and once
in  2020.  He  reported he  does  not  intend  to use  cocaine  in  the future  as  it  was  not  an
appealing drug to him and the risks of using it were too high. (Item 3)
In  December  2021,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  as
part of his background investigation. He reported to the investigator that his last use of
marijuana  was  October  2021.  He  confirmed  his  previously  disclosed  cocaine  and
hallucinogenic drug use and frequency. He confirmed that he continues to have contact
with  two  of  his friends with  whom he used  illegal drugs.  He said he  changed his mind
about using marijuana and other illegal drugs in the future, and he does not intend to use
any illegal drugs in the future. He is focused on his future. He explained he used all of
these drugs for fun and recreation. (Item 5)
In June 2022, Applicant completed government interrogatories. He was transferred
by his employer and  moved  to a  new state  in  October 2021.  Marijuana  can  be  legally
obtained in that state. He reported in his interrogatories that his last use of marijuana was
November 2021 in the state where he had moved. This contradicts the date that he told
the government investigator that his last use was October 2021. He stated he decided to
stop using marijuana. (Items 3, 4) He said:
Decided   to   focus  on   career  including   security   clearance   application.
Decided  risk to  career, reputation,  legal action  was not worth  it.  Additionally
decided to  focus on physical health as an  adult. (Item 4)
Applicant stated he continues to associate with persons who use illegal substances
and frequents places where he has reason to believe illegal substances are used or are
used  in  his  presence.  He  stated  that  this  occurs  about  once  every  three  months  at
concerts and outdoor parks, but he typically does not find himself in these situations. He
reported  that  when  he  had  been  in  situations  where  illegal  drugs  were  present,  he
removed himself and made it clear he had made a decision not to use illegal drugs. (Item
4)
Applicant stated that he has changed his professional situation and joined a new
team at his job, which supports the military, and having a security clearance is desirable.
He said he applied for a security clearance in December 2021. His SCA was signed on
October 22, 2021. (Items 3, 4)
