Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  systems  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since  September  2008.  He  is  divorced  and  has  no  children.  He  obtained  an
undergraduate  degree  in  May  1990.  He  reported  no  military  service.  He  obtained  a
security  clearance  in  2009.  (Item  3)  Applicant  completed  his  latest  security  clearance
application (SCA) on September 5, 2018.
Guideline  H: Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
The SOR alleged under Guideline H, ¶1.a, that Applicant, with varying frequency,
from about March 1999 to at least November 2021, used marijuana after being granted
access  to  classified  information  in  November  2008.  (Item  1)  Applicant  denied  the
allegation in the SOR. (Item 2)
illegally  used
The SOR alleged under Guideline E,¶ 2.a, that Applicant falsified his September
2008 SCA by responding “No” to  Section 24.a. “Since the age of 16 or in the last 7 years,
have  you
any  controlled  substance,  narcotics,  depressants,
hallucinogenics, steroids, or prescription drugs, experimenting or otherwise consuming
any  controlled  substance”  as  alleged  under Guideline  E,  in  SOR  ¶  2.b,the  SOR  cross
alleged the marijuana use  allegation in ¶ 1.a. Applicant denied these allegations in the
SOR. (Item 2)
In his answer, Applicant denied the SOR allegation that he used marijuana with
varying  frequency  from  about  1999  to  at  least  2021and  stated  that  he  tried  marijuana
once in 1999 and did not use marijuana again until 2013 when his roommate moved in.
He acknowledged that the use of marijuana was after his initial security screening in 2009.
He continued to relate that he used it about a handful of times, with the last time being
Thanksgiving 2021. (Item 2)
In  his  September  5,  2018,  SCA  he  acknowledged  that  he  had  been  smoking
marijuana about once a week for recreational use because it provides a good method of
relaxation. He specified the time was from March 1999 until August 2018. He admitted
that he was using marijuana while holding a security clearance, and that he intended to
use the marijuana in the future. (Item 3)
During  Applicant’s  January  2019  interview,  he  stated  that  he  bought  marijuana
from friends. He noted that he is not dependent on the illegal use of marijuana and has
never  tested  positive  for  it..  He  commented  that  it  has  never  affected  his  judgment  or
personality. He claims there has been no negative impact on his work or home life. (Item
3)
Applicant  answered  DOHA  interrogatories  in  April  2022.  He  stated  that  he  last
used marijuana during Thanksgiving  2021 and further acknowledged that he  knew that
marijuana was illegal under Federal law and that his employer prohibited the use of all
illegal drugs. Applicant stated that he would abstain from further drug use. (Item 4)
Applicant’s admissions and the evidence in the record, especially while holding a
security  clearance  is  serious.  He  has  not  presented  in  a  credible  manner  a  case  for
granting him a security clearance.
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct
The SOR alleged in SOR 2.a and 2.b that Applicant falsified material facts on his
September 2008 SCA by answering “NO” to the questions in Section 24 – Illegal Use of
Drugs of Drug Activity as set forth in subparagraph 1.a of the SOR. It cross-alleged his
marijuana use in SOR ¶ 2.b.
Applicant  denied  the  falsification  allegations  because  he  believes  he  made  a
mistake  and misinterpreted the question in assuming the other sections correlated. He
claimed he answered the question incorrectly by an honest mistake. He  claims he was
not trying to hide anything or be deceptive, or lie. He has held a security clearance since
2009. On his SCA, he answered “NO.” to have you ever illegally used or otherwise been
illegally  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security
clearance other than previously listed? He did not add any information concerning this
issue in his  DOHA interrogatories. He insisted that he had no ill intentions because his
work  position  is  strongly  reliant  on  his  clearance  and  he  has  been  truthful  in  his
representation to the best of his ability. (Item 2)
`
