In  Applicant’s  initial  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.v.  Through
Counsel he admits the debts and then explains in detail how and why these delinquent
accounts are not the result of “intentional fault of his own.” (Item 3.) His admissions are
incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 51 years old. He divorced in 2003 and has one daughter of whom he
is the custodial parent. He earned his associate's degree in 2009 and was awarded his
bachelor's degree in 2011. He has been employed by his sponsor since December 2020.
He provided two character letters from colleagues attesting to their full confidence in his
integrity,  discretion,  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.
(Enclosures 1 and 2.)
After  earning  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  2011  Applicant  began  making  minimal
payments  on  his  student  loans  per  the  loan  holder.  In  his  Answer,  he  explained  after
graduation  when  he  was  under-employed,  and  he  was  unable  to  pay  the  full  monthly
amount of the payment or in some months not at all. (Item 2 at 15.) He states the loan
holder suggested he default or enter into forbearance on the student loans  as his best
course  of  action.  He  states  through  Counsel  that  even  while  making  payments  he
engaged the loan holder on numerous occasions to set up payment plan. (Enclosure 6.)
He states he now owns his current home and vehicles, and his current salary is $146,000.
(Item 2 and Item 3 at 3.)
Applicant asserts in both Answers that in 2016 he was informed that the loan holder
was no longer holding any student loan accounts and that the loan holder was being sued
for misrepresentation and fraudulent representation regarding the student loan accounts
it managed. When he did not receive any further  information regarding payment of his
student loans, he assumed his loans were part of the lawsuits. (Enclosure 7.)
Applicant’s 22 delinquent student loans total $98,728. The debts are established
by two credit reports from August 2021 and December 2021 and his Answers. (Items 5,
6,  2,  and  3.)  After  getting  his  student  loans  released  from  the  COVID-19  forbearance
program he established a payment arrangement with the Department of Education for all
the loans in February 2022. (Response at 7.) The agreement would take the loans out of
default.  In  March  2022  Applicant  signed  a  statement  of  intent,  Enclosure  5,  to  make
monthly payments of $1,139. In the statement of intent, he affirmed he would continue to
make  all  future  student  loan  payments  as  required  until  paid  in  full  and  that  he  fully
understood  that  any  future  failure  to  pay  his  student  loans  would  be  “grounds  for
revocation  of  [his]  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  national  security  information.”
(Enclosure 5.)
Applicant’s student loans in June 2022 were consolidated  into one debt totaling
$94,739. (RE4 at 2.) In August 2022, the Department of Education informed him he had
rehabilitated his student loans and that the loans had “been paid in full with the proceeds
of the consolidation loan. (RE2.) He is current on his monthly payments. As of November
2022, the balance was $88,546. His repayment status is listed as “good standing.” (RE5.)
