Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 58 years old, married, and has two adult children.  He has a Master’s
in  Business  Administration.  He  holds  the  position  of  Senior  Chief  Engineer  with  a
defense  contractor.  He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  this
employment.
Applicant was born in Calcutta, India in 1964.  He came to the United States in
1982,  and  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2013.  He  married  a  woman  from
Vietnam, and she is a naturalized U.S. citizen.  They have two children who were born
in  the  U.S.  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  1987,  and  has  been
with the company for the past thirty-five years.  He has never held a security clearance.
1.a.  Applicant owns a portfolio of investments in India that he estimates to be valued
at  approximately  2  million  dollars.  (Answer  to  SOR.)  Those  foreign  investments  are
discussed below:
1.b.   Applicant co-owns an apartment in Mumbai, India, with his brother and sister.  He
estimates  that  his  one-third  ownership  share  of  the  apartment  is  worth  approximately
$500,000.  Applicant explained that his father originally purchased the apartment for his
mother to live in.  Applicant’s mother has passed away.  In recent years, the apartment
was  used  to  house  his  aging  aunt  and  uncle  who  needed  care,  since  there  were  a
couple of staff there who could help care for them.  The house is not rented.  (Tr. p. 38.)
Applicant’s brother also uses the apartment when he visits India, as the business they
own also has an office in Mumbai.  (Tr. pp. 38-39.)
1.c.  Applicant  is  co-owner,  of  a  large  company  in  India  that  does  business  with  the
Government in India.  The business is a consulting engineering company that was once
owned  by  Applicant’s  father.  Applicant’s  father  passed,  and  Applicant  and  his  two
siblings inherited the business.  The company provides independent assessments and
guidance  to  owners  and  operators  of  steel  mills  in  India.  They  also  do  studies  for
entities  such  as  the  World  Bank  or  other  organizations  to  establish  feasibility  of  the
projects that they are considering.  This engineering company provides services related
to  various  engineering  civil  projects  with  an  expertise  in  the  ferrous  metals  industry.
There are also some projects in aluminum plants and other things due to the skill sets of
the  engineers.  This  business  does  work  with  the  Indian  Government  since  the  steel
plants are owned by the  Government.  (Tr. p. 33.)  The  company is comprised of 800
employees.  The  total  revenue  of  the  company  last  year  was  11.8  million  dollars.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit C.)
Applicant’s brother is the Chief Executive Officer who operates and manages the
company.  He  is  domiciled  in  New  York,  and  is  a  permanent  resident  of  the  U.S.
Applicant is a Director of the company.  He is involved in the company Board meetings
about three times a year, and handles other miscellaneous matters.
Applicant  also  maintains  about  six  foreign  bank  accounts  in  India,  valued  at  a
total  of  $247,000.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  A.)  Applicant  has  implied  that
there was more money than this at some point as some of the money was repatriated to
the  U.S.,  and  is  part  of  the  holdings  he  has  in  the  U.S.  Applicant  holds  a  significant
amount of stock in this company, namely 13,334 of a total 80,000 shares issued, which
is  about  16.7  percent  of  the  stock.  The  monetary  amount  of  this  stock  is  unknown.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit B.)
Applicant  has  about  24  million  dollars  in  assets  in  the  U.S.,  that  include  an
investment account, two real properties, he and his wife’s retirement savings accounts
and his life insurance policy.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)
I have taken administrative notice of the information set forth in the Government’s
briefs  and  supportive documents  on  the  country  of  India.  (HE1.) India  is  a multiparty,
federal, parliamentary democracy with a bicameral legislature.  The U.S. Department of
State has issued a Level 2 travel advisory for India, advising U.S. nationals to exercise
increased  caution  due  to  crime  and  terrorism.  Indian  authorities  report  rape  is  one  of
the fastest growing crimes in India.  Violent crime, such as sexual assault, has occurred
at  tourist  sites  and  in  other  locations.  Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,
targeting
transportation  hubs,  markets/shopping  malls,  and
government facilities.  India continues to experienced terrorists and insurgent activities
which  may  affect  U.S.  citizens  directly  or  indirectly.  Anti-Western  terrorists  groups,
locations,
tourist
some on the U.S. government’s list of foreign terrorist organizations, are active in Indian
including Islamist extremist groups.  Past attacks have targeted public places, including
some frequented by Westerners, such as luxury and other hotels, trains, train stations,
markets,  cinemas,  mosques,  and  restaurants  in  large  urban  areas.  There  are
significant  human  rights  issues  in  India  including  unlawful  and  arbitrary  killings,
extrajudicial  killings  by  the  government  or  its  agents;  torture  and  cases  of  cruel,
inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by police and prison officials; harsh and
life-threatening  prison  conditions;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  by  government
authorities;  political  prisoners,  or  detainees;  arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with
privacy;  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  media,  including  violence,  threats  of
violence  or  unjustified  arrests  or  prosecution  against  journalists;  use  of  criminal  libel
laws  to  prosecute  social  media  speech;  restrictions  on  internet  freedom;  overly
restrictive
funding,  or  operations  of  nongovernment
organizations  and  civil  society  organizations;  serious  government  corruption;
government harassment of domestic and international human rights organizations; lack
of  investigation  of  and  accountability  for  gender-based  violence;  crimes  involving
violence  and  discrimination  targeting  members  of  minority  groups  based  on  religious
affiliation,  social  status  or  sexual  orientation  or  gender  identity;  and  forced  and
compulsory  labor,  including  child  labor and  bonded  labor.  India  presents  a  significant
and heightened security risk to the United States.
the  organization,
laws  on
