Applicant  admitted  some  of  the SOR  allegations,  with  explanations,  and  denied
other  allegations.  Her  admissions  are  incorporated  into  these  findings  of  fact.  After  a
review of the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a federal contractor. She began  working
with her current employer in November 2018. She has worked for one federal contractor
or  another  as  a  technical  writer  since  2001.  She  is  a  high  school  graduate  with  some
college credits. She married for the first time in June 2021. She has three adult children.
She has held a security clearance since 2005. (Tr. 6, 23, 25, 42, GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  four  delinquent  debts  including  a  vehicle  repossession,  two
consumer debts, and a debt from an educational advance given by a previous employer,
all  totaling  $31,152.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d)  Three  debts  were  listed  in  a  credit  report  from
January 2020 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c) and the fourth (SOR ¶ 1.d) is supported by her admissions
to a background investigator in January 2020. None of the debts are listed in the most
recent credit report contained in the record from October 2022. (GE 2-3, 6)
Applicant credibly explained that her financial difficulties resulted from helping her
daughter,  who  was  in  an  abusive  relationship,  and  her  brother.  She  provided  living
arrangements  for  both  of  them  and  both  abused  Applicant’s  generosity.  When  she
recently married, her husband made it a point to help her resist her family from abusing
her generosity. She no longer loans money or allows her family members to stay with her.
(Tr. 25-26, 34, 43)
The status of her delinquent debts listed in the SOR is as follows:
Vehicle repossession deficiency-$13,514 (SOR ¶ 1.a). This debt was assigned
for collection in December 2015. It was charged off in April 2019. Applicant admitted that
she financed this vehicle. She stated that she was working about 100 hours a week when
she financed this car and simply forgot to make the payments. Once it was repossessed,
she  attempted  to  negotiate  a  settlement  with  the  creditor  but  it  would  only  accept  full
payment. She could not afford to make full payment at the time, so it was charged off. For
tax year 2021, Applicant documented receiving an IRS Form 1099-C, cancelation of debt,
from the creditor for SOR debt ¶ 1.a. Applicant indicated she would file an amended return
and claim the amount as income as required. This debt is resolved. (Tr. 27-30; AE D)
Consumer debt-$110 (SOR ¶ 1.b). Applicant explained that this debt was for a
milk-delivery service. When she stopped the delivery, the company continued to bill her
for the service. She contacted them and the  debt was cancelled. It no longer appears on
her credit report. This debt is resolved. (Tr. 31;  GE 6; AE A-B)
Consumer  debt-$528  (SOR  ¶  1.c).  Applicant  credibly  explained  that  she  was
charged this expense for failing to turn in telecommunication equipment. She denied that
failure and documented communication with the creditor showing that she turned in the
disputed equipment. This debt no longer appears on her credit report. It is resolved. (Tr.
31; AE E)
Educational debt to former employer-$17,000 (SOR ¶ 1.d). Applicant credibly
explained  that  this  educational  debt  was  incurred  when  she  received  financing  from  a
former  employer  to  attend  school.  This  debt  would  be  paid  by  the  company  with  no
payback obligation from Applicant, as long as she remained employed by the company
for 12 months. Short of that 12-month period, Applicant took a job with another employer.
She talked to her former employer’s human resources (HR) office about the ramifications
of this decision. Applicant believed that even though she did not stay at the company for
12 calendar months, when her work hours were computed, including overtime for the time
she worked there, it amounted to more than one year’s worth of work. She was told by
HR that the debt should not be a problem. Apparently her former company did not see it
that way, and filed a lawsuit seeking recoupment of the funds. After the fact, Applicant
learned that her daughter, who was staying at Applicant’s house, was served with process
on her mother’s behalf. Her daughter failed to tell Applicant about being served or give
her the paperwork. As a result, Applicant failed to appear for the court date and a default
judgment  was  entered  against  her  in  February  or  March  2019.  Upon  receiving  the
judgment, the creditor executed a garnishment against Applicant’s wages. The judgment
was satisfied in April 2021. This debt is resolved. (Tr. 33-34; GE 2; AE C)
During cross-examination, Applicant admitted that she had some earlier financial
delinquencies that resulted in the issuance of an SOR in approximately 2015. That SOR
was  withdrawn  when  Applicant  provided  sufficient  evidence  showing  that  she  had
resolved or was resolving the debts. Since this information was not alleged in the current
SOR, I will not use this evidence for disqualifying purposes, but I may use it in assessing
Applicant’s credibility, the applicability of any mitigating conditions, and during my whole-
person analysis. (Tr. 36)
Applicant  was  also  asked  about  her  plan  to  pay  her  student-loan  debt  of
approximately  $40,000,  which  is  currently  deferred  under  the  COVID-relief  executive
order. She provided a written budget that shows that between her and her husband, they
have approximately $5,000 remaining each month after paying all their obligations and
debts. This includes budgeting for a $500 per month student-loan payment. They recently
purchased a home and  they have  about $67,000  in  savings. Applicant’s husband’s net
income is approximately $4,200 monthly and hers is approximately $5,200 monthly. (Tr.
34, 39, 41-42; AE F-G)
