Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.c.  He  did  not
specifically admit or deny the same allegations that were cross-alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a. His
admissions  are adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After a thorough  and careful review of  the
pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 51 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2000. He married in
2010 and has an adult stepson. He has been employed by his present employer, a federal
contractor,  since  2020  and  has  worked  for  different  federal  employers  since  2006.
(Transcript (Tr.) 20; GE 1)
In 1994, Applicant was arrested and charged with trafficking marijuana, a felony.
He  was  attempting  to  sell  about  two  pounds  of  marijuana  when  arrested.  He  had
successfully sold about a pound of marijuana on one other occasion. His charge was later
reduced  to  possession  of  marijuana,  a  misdemeanor.  He  was  convicted  of  the  lesser
offense and sentenced to 12 months in jail. He served eight months and was released
early. (Tr. 24, 39-45)
After Applicant’s release from jail, he would purchase small amounts of marijuana
from friends for personal use, and he used marijuana with varying frequency from 1994
to 2001. He stopped using marijuana when he applied for a job  in 2001 that required a
security clearance. He said he did not receive the clearance. He testified he also stopped
using marijuana because he  wanted to pursue a  different path  for his life. He became
involved with his church and turned his life to God. In approximately 2006, he applied for
another job that required a security clearance. He was denied the clearance after going
through the adjudicative process, including a hearing with an administrative judge from
DOHA. In 2009, Applicant reapplied for a security clearance and it was granted in 2010.
All of his jobs since 2010 have required a security clearance. (Tr. 23-26, 45-52)
In  about  2011,  Applicant  and  his  wife  purchased  undeveloped  property  in  the
country  on  which  they  spent  years  clearing  brush  and  trees,  erecting  fences  and
renovating  buildings. Six years later, after his stepson  graduated  from  high  school,  he
and his wife moved to their tiny house, planted gardens, fruit trees, berry orchards, and
learned to care for livestock. Applicant was also in a position to invest more time into his
hobby of cycling that he pursues three to four times a week for two to three hours  at a
time.  Applicant  also  continued  to  work  hard  at  his  job.  In  2019,  after  years of  working
every day and every weekend, he and his wife planned a vacation.
Applicant and his wife planned their vacation for months. They intended to fly to
Colorado and rent a recreational vehicle and then drive to various locations where they
could hike and bike and enjoy the mountains. They purchased one-way tickets, as when
they completed their mountain trip, they intended to drive home. In order to leave their
farm, they required someone who was experienced in caring for animals. Their farm is
not for profit, but intended for a degree of self-sufficiency. They arranged for a person to
care  for  the  farm  animals  while  they  were  gone.  He  was  to  come  to  the  farm  the  day
before they were to leave for vacation so they could do a last-minute walk through. The
farm hand failed to show up the day before and could not be contacted. He had gotten
the days wrong. (Tr. 26-30; Answer to the SOR)
The  plane  tickets  were  non-refundable,  so  Applicant’s  wife  suggested  that
Applicant take the trip without her, rent a bike, and cycle through the Rockies. Applicant
already had approved leave. He did not want to go on vacation without his wife, but at her
insistence and to give him a much-needed vacation, he took the trip. (Tr. 26-30; Answer
to the SOR)
Applicant arrived in Colorado and checked out bike shops. There were numerous
cannabis shops. Use and possession of marijuana is legal in Colorado. He testified that
he was curious because there were cannabis stores everywhere and since it was legal in
the state, he went into one and on impulse purchased a small amount of marijuana. He
went back to his hotel room and used a small amount. About ten minutes later, he realized
his mistake and did not like the way the drug made him feel. He disposed of the marijuana,
called his wife, told her what he did, and said he wanted to come home immediately. He
did not want to vacation without his wife and felt guilty for his actions. He checked out of
the hotel at 4:00 a.m. the next morning and drove home. (Tr. 30-33, 52-53, 55; Answer to
the SOR)
Applicant credibly testified that this one-time use in 2019 was the only time since
2001 that he used marijuana or any illegal drug. His wife and his stepson are aware of
his use. In July 2020, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) as part
of his reinvestigation for his security clearance. In the SCA, he disclosed his one-time use
of marijuana in October 2019, while he held a security clearance. He indicated his intent
never to use it again because it jeopardized all that he had worked for. Applicant provided
a  signed  statement  swearing  that  he  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  again  and
understands revocation of his security clearance would be immediate if he did. Applicant
credibly  testified  that  he  never  considered  lying  on  his  SCA  and  not  disclosing  his
marijuana use. He felt it was his duty and obligation to disclose the information. (Tr. 23,
34-36, 53, 58-59; GE 1; AE I)
In September 2020 Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He
disclosed his purchase of marijuana in Colorado while on vacation and his one-time use
before discarding the remaining marijuana. He told the investigator that he regretted his
actions and the risk was not worth jeopardizing his livelihood. He made a full disclosure
to the investigator. (GE 4)
Applicant testified and acknowledged his mistake. He said he was selfish. He is
remorseful for his actions. He testified that he understands he was given a second chance
when he was granted a security clearance in 2010. He did not like the way the marijuana
made him feel, and he does not intend to ever use marijuana again. In 2021, he decided
to abstain from alcohol to live a completely clean life. He eats healthy, rides his bike, and
devotes any extra time he has to his church. He credibly testified that after he got married
he gave his life to God. (Tr. 35-37, 56-57-58)
Applicant’s wife testified on his behalf. She confirmed that she and Applicant had
worked tirelessly on their farm, and they were looking forward to a second honeymoon
because they were unable to take a first one. When their farm hand failed to show up,
she had insisted Applicant go on the trip without her because he deserved a break. She
said that Applicant called her from Colorado after he used marijuana and was upset with
himself. She wanted him to put the incident behind him and enjoy the rest of the vacation,
but he wanted to come home. She testified he was angry with himself and remorseful.
She stated that he has a set of ethics that he lives by, and he is brutally honest. He is
devoted to his faith and it is an integral and cornerstone part of his life. She believes she
knows him better than anyone and acknowledges his past and that he has evolved. (Tr.
64-76)
Applicant’s  former  supervisor  testified  on  his  behalf.  She  has  known  him  since
2003 and supervised him for four to five years. He does excellent work and is honest to
a fault. She is aware of his marijuana use in 2019. She was somewhat aware that he had
issues in his background, but he had overcome them. She considers him trustworthy. She
acknowledged he used bad judgment when he used marijuana, but he was honest when
he disclosed it. She has no concerns about him holding a security clearance. (Tr. 76-83)
A coworker, who is retired from the military and has worked with Applicant since
2009, testified on his behalf. He noted that Applicant’s work was detailed and excellent.
He stated that Applicant is very honest, and he has integrity. He is aware of Applicant’s
2019 marijuana use and he did not have concerns with him having a security clearance.
(Tr. 84-89)
Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  an  award,  letters  of  appreciation,  certificates  of
excellence, letters of outstanding performance in support of a military program, certificate
of  excellence  for  exceptional  service  to  the  military,  and  a  chronological  list  of
accomplishments since August 2018. (AE A-H)
