Applicant  is  50  years  old.  He  has  been  married  since  2012.  His  16-year-old
stepdaughter and 9-year-old daughter still reside in the family home, which he purchased
in  2002.  He  earned  an  engineering  bachelor’s  degree  in  1994,  and  earned  master’s
degrees in aerospace engineering and business administration in, respectively, 1999 and
2007. He began his current employment with a major defense contractor in December
1996,  and  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  1999.  He  has  advanced  through
increasingly  responsible  positions,  and  is  currently  a  senior  engineering  manager.  His
current  duties  mostly  involve  unclassified  work  on  commercial  projects,  but  his
supervisors requested him to apply for continued national security eligibility so he could
continue  his  intermittent  temporary  work advising  DoD-support  programs  on  technical,
planning, staffing, and budgeting considerations. He never served in the military or held
a Federal civil service position. (GE 1; Tr. 9, 27-32.)
Shortly after the  recreational use  of marijuana  was legalized  under his state’s laws
in 2013, Applicant’s wife  wanted  to  obtain and  try some. Applicant agreed  to  participate,
and  she  brought  home  an  edible  and  a  joint  for  them  to  share  on  a  weekend  evening.
Applicant  was  assigned   to   commercial projects  that  involved   no   classified   work during
that  time, and  his company’s drug  policies only prohibited  being  under the  influence  of,
or using, alcohol or  drugs while  at work.  It  did  not occur to  him  that  this experimentation
at home  would  have  any connection  to, or effect on, his security clearance  or employment
so  he did not report it to  anyone at the  time. However, in response to  the  “Illegal Use  of
Drugs   or  Controlled  Substances”  question   in  Section   23   of   his  2019   e-QIP,  he
commented, “I have  used  Marijuana  once  in  the  past  7  years after it had  been  legalized
for personal use in  [his state of residence].” (Answer; GE 1; GE  2; Tr. 32-35.)
Applicant completed  most of the  entries  on  his  2019  e-QIP  during  late  2018,  but
delayed   its  submission   because   he   needed   to   obtain  some   updated   information   about
people he  listed  as contacts. As alleged  in  SOR ¶  2.a,  he  responded,  “No,”  to  the  question
in Section  23  asking,  “While  Possessing  a  Security  Clearance  Have  you  EVER  illegally
used   or  otherwise  been   illegally   involved   with   a   drug   or  controlled   substance   while
possessing  a  security clearance  other than  previously listed?” (Emphasis in the  original.)
As described  above,  Applicant  had  previously listed  the 2013 marijuana  use  that  was,  at
the time he was filling  out this section of the  e-QIP, the only time he had used it. He also
expressed  his understanding  that this use  was not illegal, but he  disclosed  it to  provide
complete information. (Answer; GE 1; GE  2;  Tr. 25-26, 32-42.)
During January 2019, Applicant attended a party hosted by a friend of his wife. He
did not know any of the other people at the party. When a marijuana pipe was passed
around the group, he took one or two puffs on it to be sociable. This also occurred on a
weekend  evening  during  a  period  when  he  was  exclusively  assigned  to  unclassified
commercial projects at work. It did not occur to him in late February, when he completed
the contact information on his e-QIP and submitted it, that he needed to add this second
marijuana use to his answers in Section 23. During a security interview with a Government
investigator on May 28, 2019, Applicant volunteered the information concerning his 2019
marijuana use without being confronted about it. At no time did he intentionally conceal
or misrepresent his two incidents of drug involvement. (Answer; GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 25-26,
35-43.)
Applicant believes that decriminalization of some controlled substances represents
sound public policy, and that Federal laws prohibiting marijuana use may be changed to
mirror the legalization spreading through multiple state law changes. However, he has
only used the drug twice, his wife does not regularly use it, and he firmly expressed that
he has no desire or intention to use marijuana in the future. (GE 2; Tr. 26-27, 44-45.)
