Under Guideline K, the Government alleged that in January 2019, Applicant failed
to  properly  secure  a  marked,  classified  document  in  an  approved  container  overnight
(SOR 1.a); and that in June 2018, Applicant failed to properly secure a marked, classified
document in an approved container overnight (SOR 1.b). It also alleged that in January
2017 (SOR 1.c), July 2016 (SOR 1.d), June 2016 (SOR 1.e), May 2016 (SOR 1.f), and
September  2015  (SOR  1.g),  Applicant  brough  her  personal  cellphone,  a  prohibited
device, into a secure facility at her work location. Finally, the SOR alleged that Applicant
did not follow required self-reporting procedures after the January 2017 (SOR 1.h), July
2016  (SOR 1.i), and  June 2016 (SOR 1.j)  cellphone  incidents.  Under Guideline E,  the
Government cross-alleged as adverse personal conduct, the information presented under
SOR 1.a – 1.j (SOR 2.a).
In her response, Applicant admitted, with explanations and supporting documents,
all the Guideline K and E allegations. (Answer) In addition to the facts established by her
admissions, I make the following findings of relevant fact.
Applicant is a 52-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She and her husband
have been married since June 1997. She holds a bachelor’s and master’s degrees earned
in 1994 and 2002, respectively. She has worked for her employer since 1995, first as a
contracted  employee,  then  as  a  direct  hire.  In  March  2011,  her  husband  took  a  job  in
another state and Applicant left her job to move with him.  When they returned in June
2014, Applicant resumed working for her current employer. (Answer; GX 1)
From the time she started working for her employer in 1995 until 2015, the offices
and  other  facilities  in  which  Applicant  worked  were  generally  not  secured,  such  as  a
Secure Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) or a Special Access Program Facility
(SAPF).  SAPFs  are  usually  located  within  SCIFs.  Classified  work  in  those  facilities  is
regulated by specific rules regarding access, internal storage of documents, and use of
electronic devices, such as cellphones, laptops, and tablets. Although Applicant has held
a security clearance during the entirety of her employment, it was not until September
2016 that she began working primarily with classified information and in a SCIF fulltime.
Additionally, starting in 2015, Applicant’s company experienced a rapid expansion of its
workforce  for  newly  awarded  classified  projects,  for  which  an  increased  use  of  SCIFs
became necessary. Applicant was assigned as a manager for both the substantive work
on one of those projects and for hiring and oversight of new personnel in her part of the
organization.  Before  2015,  she  was  responsible  for  15  personnel.  After  2015,  she
eventually was tasked with oversight of between 70 and 140 personnel. This resulted in
a  sharp  uptick  in  her  workload  under  often  stressful  conditions.  She  was  issued  a
company cellphone and laptop, and had to travel to other job sites on a regular basis. In
short, Applicant became a very busy person. (Answer; Tr. 23 – 25, 26 – 30, 122 – 123)
As  part  of  this  rapid  expansion,  and  in  addition  to  basic  security  procedures
required  of  all  persons  holding  clearances,  employees  were  briefed  on  security
requirements for working in secure spaces. A common subject of those briefings, held at
least annually, was the rule against bringing cellphones, both personal and work-issued,
into SCIFs. Those secure spaces were located within a larger building for which entry and
mobility were not as restrictive as for  inside the secured areas. Lockers were installed
next to the entrance of each SCIF so that employees could secure their cellphones and
other prohibited devices on the way into those spaces. Because of the ubiquitous nature
of  cellphones  in  society  and  the  workplace,  it  appears  that  violating  the  cellphone
prohibition  was  a  common  occurrence,  so  much  so  that  around  2018,  the  company
renovated  its  workplace  to  improve  the  way  cellphones  were  regulated.  After  the
renovation, rather than being able to move about with one’s phone in an unclassified area
before going into a SCIF, employees were required to relinquish unapproved devices as
soon as they entered the building. Signage reflecting the rules about cellphones and other
electronic devices  was made more prominent,  and it appears the number of  violations
decreased significantly. (Answer; Tr. 78 – 80, 125 – 126)
SOR 1.g: On September 23, 2015, not long after she was assigned as a manager,
she attended a meeting in a SCIF with the manager of a team involved in classified work
to which some of Applicant’s personnel were assigned. She had never been in that SCIF
before. She was still carrying both phones in her purse in violation of rules against taking
them  into  a  SCIF.  During  the  meeting,  one  of  her  cellphones  rang.  She  silenced  the
phone, secured them both in one of the lockers she had passed on her way into the SCIF,
and returned to the meeting. The person with whom she was meeting  saw the phones
and stated he would not report her, and even suggested a way she could avoid being
found to have violated the no cellphone rule. She stated she was not comfortable with
that approach and left the SCIF to properly secure the phones. When the meeting was
over,  she  self-reported  her  actions  to  the  company  security  office.  Applicant’s  phones
were  examined,  and  she  provided  information  about  the  incident  by  completing  a
“Supplemental Questionnaire – Prohibited Devices.” There was no apparent compromise
of sensitive information, and the company did not discipline Applicant as a result of her
conduct. The security office employee who conducted the investigation of this incident
counseled Applicant about the need to properly store her cellphones outside of secure
areas. After this incident, Applicant did not change her routine or the way she handled
her phones because going to that, or any other SCIF was not yet part of her usual routine.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 25 – 42)
SOR 1.f:  On May 2, 2016, before going to her own office,  Applicant went to an
unclassified part of the building she worked in to begin “onboarding” new employees. At
some point, she brought some of them to the security office for in-processing. The security
office was in a SCIF, so the new employees waited outside while Applicant went in to
begin that part of their check-in process. When she entered the SCIF, she had both of
her  cellphones  in  her  hand.  A  security  office  employee  pointed  out  the  phones  to
Applicant, who said “oops.” She then left the space to secure the phones in a locker at
the entrance. Having been seen with cellphones in a SCIF by a security staff member,
she  self-reported  the  violation,  and  the  matter  was  dealt  with  in  same  manner  as  her
September  2015  violation.  Again,  no  classified  information  was  compromised,  no
discipline  was  taken,  and  Applicant  was  counseled  about  the  no-cellphone  rule  by  a
security  staff  employee.  After  this  incident,  Applicant  chose  to  deactivate  the  voice
functions  on  her  company  phone  and  leave  it  in  her  car.  The  only time  she  used  that
phone  was  for monthly  travel,  so  she  had  no  use  for it  inside  her secure  workspaces.
Applicant  still  carried  her  personal  phone  to  work  to  stay  in  touch  with  her  family  as
needed,  and  she  resolved  to  be  more  vigilant  about  keeping  the  phone  out  of  SCIFs.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 42 – 48)
SOR 1.e  and 1.j:  At the beginning of her workday on an unspecified date in June
2016, Applicant walked into the SAPF where her desk was located. When she put her
purse on her desk, she noticed one of her cellphones protruding from the bag. She put
the phone in her pocket, walked out of the secure area, and stored it in a locker. No one
witnessed this incident, and she did not report it when it happened as required. She did
not report her conduct because she  was  afraid  of  the consequences  that might ensue
after a third cellphone violation. There is no indication that any sensitive information was
compromised. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 48 – 49, 51)
SOR 1.d  and 1.i:  At lunchtime on an unspecified date in July 2016, Applicant left
her secure space and retrieved her personal phone that she had stored in a locker before
entering  the  SCIF.  After  using  the  phone  to  check  messages  outside  the  SCIF,  she
returned directly to the secure area with the phone and a notebook under arm. When she
set the notebook down on her desk, she realized she still had her cellphone with her. She
left  the  SCIF  and  stored  the  cellphone  in  a  locker  as  required.  Again,  no  one  had
witnessed this incident and Applicant did not self-report this event as required. She also
did not make any changes to the way she was handling her personal cellphone. (Answer;
GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 49 – 52)
SOR 1.c  and 1.h: On January 5, 2017, Applicant left a SCIF during a break in a
meeting she was attending there. She retrieved her cellphone from the locker  in which
she had stored it before the meeting. After checking for messages, she put it in her coat
pocket at the same time a co-worker asked to talk with her back in the  SCIF for a few
minutes. He held the door open for her and she entered without first storing her cellphone
in locker. After a brief discussion, she again left the SCIF and realized she still had the
phone in her pocket. After going to the restroom, she again secured it in a locker before
reentering the SCIF to continue the meeting. No one else knew she had the phone in the
SCIF, and she did not report this event as required. Again, she feared the consequences
knowing that she had committed multiple cellphone infractions during the prior 18 months.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 52 – 54)
After  her  January  2017  cellphone  incident,  Applicant  attended  a  previously
scheduled  security  refresher training  on  January 16,  2017,  that  reinforced  the  need  to
self-report any security violations  or infractions. After that training, she felt the need to
clear her conscience about her unreported cellphone infractions in June and July 2016,
and in January 2017. She reported all three incidents on January 23, 2017. The company
security office processed each of the three events in the same manner as the September
2015 and May 2016 incidents. In assessing the failure to self-report each incident, it was
determined that, although each individual event constituted a security infraction, all five
events and her failure to report three of them rose to the level of a security violation. The
investigation  of  that  violation  included  a  detailed  statement  from  Applicant  and  a
determination by the security staff that she was culpable of a security violation. In findings
issued on January 28, 2017, security personnel also recommended that she thereafter
be subject to periodic interviews by the security staff “to ensure that she has reported all
incidents  to  the  Security  office,”  and  that  “[m]anagement  will  provide  a  summary  of
selected  corrective  action(s)  to  Security  within  two  weeks  of  receiving  this  report.”
According to Applicant,  no  one interviewed her after that report  was  issued, and there
were no corrective actions identified. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 54 – 56)
Applicant  received  a  letter  of  reprimand  after  the  January  2017  security  office
report.  The  only  subsequent  corrective  action  by  management  consisted  of  informal
counseling by security staff, which included suggesting ways Applicant could change her
daily  routine  to  make  her  more  aware  of  the  no-cellphone  rule.  Applicant  herself  took
actions such as wearing rings in a certain way to sensitize her about what might be in her
hands. She also had her cellphone calls forwarded to her office phone so she could leave
the cellphone in her car each day. In December 2016, Applicant asked for a pager that
could  be  taken  into  secure  spaces  so  her  family  could  contact  her  without  using  her
cellphone; however, Applicant did not receive the pager until after her January 5, 2017,
infraction. Available information does not show that she received any remedial security
training in response to her violation. (GX 3; Tr. 56 – 60)
SOR  1.b:  On  June  12,  2018,  Applicant  reported  to  security  that  she  had
mishandled classified documents by leaving them on her desk overnight. Even though
her  desk  was  in  a  secure  space,  that  space  was  not  approved  for  open  storage.
Therefore,  the  documents  were  required  to  be  secured  in  an  approved  safe  or  other
locking container. The documents were Powerpoint slides intended for display on June
11 in a conference room approved for open storage; however, when she got to the room
it was being used, so she returned to her desk, intending to return to the conference room
to put the slides up later. Applicant put the slides on her desk but became busy thereafter
and forgot about them. She failed to properly store the slides before leaving for the day.
She saw them when she returned to work the next morning and reported the matter to
security.  A  subsequent  investigation  determined  this  to  be  an  infraction  caused  by
negligence, and that there was no likelihood of compromise.  No disciplinary measures
resulted from this infraction. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 60 – 67)
SOR  1.a:  On  January  31,  2019,  Applicant  reported  to  security  that  she  had
mishandled classified documents by leaving them on her desk overnight. Even though
her  desk  was  in  a  secure  space,  that  space  was  not  approved  for  open  storage.
Therefore,  the  documents  were  required  to  be  secured  in  an  approved  safe  or  other
locking  container.  On  January  29,  she  met  with  a  co-worker  who  worked  in  another
building.  The  meeting  was  held  in  a  secure  conference  room  in  Applicant’s  building.
During the meeting, the co-worker handed Applicant a document marked as classified. It
was not protected from view by a manila folder as it should have been if the co-worker
brought it from another building. After the meeting, Applicant  returned to her office and
put the document on her desk. It remained there until late the following day, when  she
noticed for the first time that the document had classified markings on it. She shredded it
before  leaving  for  the  day  and  self-reported  this  incident  to  security  the  next  morning.
Applicant  asserts  that  she  did  not  immediately  realize  the  document  had  classified
markings on it,  because they were in black instead of  red as required, and as already
noted, it had not been carried to the meeting in a manila folder as required. For his part,
Applicant’s  coworker  asserted
the  document  was  properly  marked,  but
acknowledged  that  it  was  carried  improperly  (he  folded  it  in  half  inside  a  notebook)
between buildings. Applicant denies that the document was folded at all. (GX 1; GX 2;
GX 3; Tr. 68 – 71)
that
After  Applicant  self-reported  the  January  2019  incident,  the  security  office
determined that there was no risk of compromise and that the infraction was the result of
Applicant’s  negligence.  Applicant  testified  she  received  a  letter  of  reprimand  after  this
incident that also addressed her June 2018 infraction. She claims the letter, which was
not produced at hearing, and which she claims her employer has not produced despite
her  repeated  requests,  accused  her  of  “unethical”  conduct  in  connection  with  those
events.  Applicant  takes  umbrage  with  that  characterization,  which  she  felt  was  overly
harsh under the circumstances. After this incident, Applicant devised a checklist to use at
the end of every workday to ensure nothing in her area of responsibility is left unsecured.
A  previous  version  was  provided  at  the  hearing  as  an  example  of  her  efforts  to  avoid
similar misplacement of classified information in the future.  Applicant also testified that
she  has  either  reported  security  violations  of  others  or  has  brought  potential  security
violations to the offenders’ attention and encouraged them to self-report. (Answer; GX 1;
GX 2; GX 3; AX C; AX D; Tr. 74 – 78)
Applicant presented information suggesting that her employer’s security practices
were deficient. She argued that her training was insufficient because there was no special
attention paid to cellphone infractions, and that in response to her violations, there was
no remedial training provided. She did not identify what that training would entail or how
any deficient security practices by her employer caused her to commit any of her security
infractions. The investigative materials that documented security officials’  responses to
all her cellphone infractions show that she was verbally counseled about the rule against
cellphones  each  time,  and  she  stated  multiple  times  that  she  understood  the  rules.
(Answer; GX 3; AX C; Tr. 88 – 94)
In  a  footnote  in  Applicant’s  response  to  the  SOR  (Answer  at  page  5,  fn1),  she
recounted  another  instance  in  which  she  brought  a  prohibited  device  –  her  company
cellphone – into a secure space. This conduct was not alleged in the SOR, but was further
developed through  her hearing testimony, both on direct and cross-examination.  (I am
only  examining  it  as  part  of  my  assessment  of  information  probative  of  mitigation.)  As
previously  discussed,  after  her  May  2016  cellphone  infraction,  Applicant  decided  to
deactivate most of the voice functions in her company cellphone and leave it in her car.
She then kept the device in a bag she used when she traveled and in which she would
also carry her laptop and other business-related travel needs. In January 2017, after she
received a pager, she had company technicians completely deactivate the phone. The
company then instructed her to send the device to a corporate facility for disposal. In the
late summer or early fall of 2019, Applicant and her team were working on a weekend,
and she decided to treat her team members to bagels and coffee in the SCIF. To carry
the food and drink, as well as the usual items she brought to the office every day, she
retrieved the travel bag from her car. Believing it to be empty, she filled it with the items
she needed to carry, then entered the SCIF. When she emptied the bag of its contents in
the SCIF, she found the deactivated cellphone. She had forgotten to send the device to
the corporate facility as she had been instructed to do. The device itself was not charged
and appeared to be unusable even if charged. Not long thereafter, she sent the device
for  disposal.  Applicant  never  reported  this  incident  to  the  company  security  staff.  She
averred that she did not report this matter because it would serve no purpose to report
that  she  had  brought  a  useless  device  into  a  SCIF.  She  also  was  wary  of  the
consequences of reporting her actions after she had been cited for “unethical” conduct in
her second letter of reprimand a few months earlier. While that letter was not produced
for this record, the testimony of her former supervisor confirmed the nature of the letter
and he response to it. Additionally, Applicant disclosed her receipt of the second letter of
reprimand  in  her  most  recent  e-QIP  and  it  was  discussed  during  her  July  15,  2019,
personal subject interview (PSI). (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 82 – 88, 110 – 111)
Applicant has accrued an exemplary record of performance during her tenure at
her  company.  She  also  enjoys  a  solid  reputation  in  the  workplace  and  has  been
recognized  for  her  own  professional  accomplishments  and  as  a  mentor  to  young
engineers.  In  the  community,  she  and  her  husband  are  personally  vested  in  specific
charities related to their family’s experiences and interests stemming from the loss of one
of their children. Applicant’s former supervisor (he is now retired) testified that he knew
her to be an excellent employee and that he would unreservedly recommend her for a
position  of  trust  despite  his  knowledge  of  some  of  her  security  incidents.  Applicant’s
performance reviews, letters of recommendation (including from her current supervisor),
various technical qualifications and certifications also reflect positively on her character
and reliability. (AX A – C; Tr. 98 – 101, 119 – 123)
