In his answer, Applicant denied the SOR allegations. After review of the pleadings,
testimony, and evidence submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  36  years old.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2012.  He  was  first
granted a security clearance in 2010. His most recent SCA was submitted in June 2017.
For  over  ten  years,  he  has  worked  for  government  contractors  in  a  national  security
related  information  technology  field.  He  possesses  specialized  knowledge,  skills,  and
experience in this field. (Tr. 19-21; GE 1, 2)
The SOR alleges that Applicant was terminated or resigned in lieu of termination
from the government contractor in 2015 for timecard fraud (SOR ¶ 1.a) and from the bank
in 2010 for falsification or fraud (SOR ¶ 1.b). It also alleges that he deliberately falsified
his  2017  SCA  about  why  he  left  these  two  jobs  and  failed  to  disclose  that  he  was
terminated or resigned in lieu of termination. (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d).
Applicant  stated  that  his  first  real  job  was  as  a  personal  banker  with  a  national
bank chain. Prior to this job, he worked part-time jobs while going to school. He reported
that his job at the bank was to assist customers with  their accounts, and to encourage
them to open new accounts. He asserted that newly opened accounts were an important
metric for management compensation. He stated that he was paid a flat salary and did
not earn a bonus. (Tr. 27-36, 68-92, GE 1, 2, 3)
In  the eight months that  Applicant  worked  at the bank, he reported  that  he  was
trained by a more experienced banker on how to open accounts for customers. He claims
that he was told that a way to improve his monthly performance metrics was to contact
customers  about  their  existing  accounts,  and  without  their  explicit  approval  open  new
accounts in their names for 30 days, and then close them at the end of that time period.
He asserted that no money needed to be moved. He testified that he watched his trainer
do this on several occasions, but did not do it himself. (Tr. 27-36, 68-92, GE 1, 2, 3)
In  the  summary  report  of  his  2018  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator, Applicant reported that he used this tactic to open accounts for customers
that he knew, such as family members or friends. He reported that he did this on about
four occasions. At the hearing, he denied opening the accounts himself. He testified that
the summary report was incorrect. He claims that he told the investigator that he saw his
trainer improperly open four accounts, but did not say that he opened them himself. He
claims that he did not read this portion of the summary carefully enough before verifying
it. (Tr. 27-36, 68-92, GE 1, 2, 3)
In early 2010, Applicant stated that his manager informed his team that there was
a customer complaint about an account that was opened without the customer’s approval,
and the bank chain was going to conduct an investigation. He reported that he quit his
job before the investigation started. He asserted that he had already been looking to leave
this job to go into the government-contracting world, and he did not want to be in a position
where he could be fired. He stated that he wanted to leave the door open to work in the
banking  industry  again  in  the  future,  if  the  government  contracting  career  path  did  not
work out. He asserted that he was not personally confronted by the manager or told that
he  would  be  fired  or  disciplined.  He  stated  that  he  feared  having  a  blemish  on  his
employment record, and this caused him to make the quick decision to quit that job. His
next two jobs were in government contracting. On his 2017 SCA, he stated that he left
this job to transition from commercial banking to government contracting, and that he was
not fired and did not quit after being told that he would be fired. (Tr. 27-36, 68-92, GE 1,
2, 3)
The  way  that  these  unapproved  accounts  were  opened  was  not  unique  to  the
branch  that  Applicant  worked  in.  In  2020,  the  bank  chain  agreed  to  pay  $3  billion  to
resolve  criminal  and  civil  investigations  into  opening  customer  accounts  without
authorization.  The  Department  of  Justice  stated  that  the  bank  pressured  employees
nationwide to meet unrealistic sales goals, which led to employees providing products or
accounts under false pretenses or without consent. (AE F)
In  June  2015,  Applicant  started  working  for  a  government  contractor  in  a
specialized information technology field. He reported that when he started this position,
the deputy program manager (DPM) of the project told him that he needed to bill “straight
eights” on his time card, but that if he worked longer hours, he could stockpile that time
and  use  it  as  compensatory  time  off.  He  claimed  that  he  would  work  out  the  time  off
arrangements informally with the DPM. He stated that the work slowed shortly after he
started  working  there,  because  they  had  already  depleted  most  of  the  funding  for  the
contract,  and  later  the  company  had  lost  the  bid  for  contract  renewal.  During  his
employment,  he  found  other  job  openings  in  a  similar  practice  area  with  a  large
government contractor. A friend employed by that contractor referred him for one of these
positions, and he had submitted applications for new employment to them by September
27, 2015. (Tr. 19-27, 31-34, 39-68, 73, 88-105; GE 1, 2, 4, 5; AE B, C, D, E, G)
On October 7, 2015, Applicant was informed by his program manager (PM) that
an audit was being conducted of employee time cards, and that the auditors wanted to
meet with him. He stated to the PM that he did not want to be involved in an audit. The
PM told him that he could avoid the audit if he resigned, or he could meet with the auditor
and find a new position with the company when the contract for his current position ended.
Applicant stated that he had no reason to believe that he would be fired because of the
audit, and his PM gave him no indication that was the case. He stated that since he was
already  seeking  new  employment,  he  decided  to  resign.  His  resignation  took  effect
immediately. He reported that in this type of work, two weeks’ notice was not necessary,
because  when  an  employee  states  that  they  are  leaving,  they  are  removed  from  the
project immediately for security reasons. The day after he resigned, he received an out-
processing letter from company HR, which asked him to stay in touch and connected with
the company, and asked him to refer family and friends to work for them. There was no
negative language about his resignation in the out-processing letter. Later that month, he
started  working  for  the  large  government  contractor  with  which  he  applied  in  late
September. On his 2017 SCA, he stated that he left this job because of minimal workload
and that he was recruited for other work with a government contractor, and that he was
not fired and did not quit after being told that he would be fired. (Tr. 19-27, 31-34, 39-68,
73, 88-105; AE D)
In 2019, Applicant was informed by his security officer at another employer that
there was an incident report about him from October 15, 2015, but they were not allowed
to show it to him. In April 2019, he filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to
obtain information about the report. It was not provided to him until Department Counsel
sent him the report in January 2022. The report claims that in October 2015, he resigned
in  lieu  of  termination  for  violating  company  time-charging  policy.  It  states  that  an
investigation  found  that  he  mischarged  30.5  hours  in  the  period  of  a  week  in  late
September  2015,  and  it  described  instances  of  erratic  behavior  that  month.  Applicant
denied the allegations in the report. He stated that when he resigned he had no reason
to believe that he would be terminated. His specialized knowledge, skills, and experience
would make termination unlikely for a timecard issue from one week of employment. He
argued that it would not be possible to mischarge 30 hours in a week, as someone would
immediately notice that he had missed almost an entire week of work. In mid-September
2015, he had oral surgery and a follow-up visit in late September. He stated that he did
not have enough leave banked to use for his recovery, and he was not permitted to take
leave in advance of earning it. He reported that he had to come into work while still taking
prescribed  pain  medications.  The  Government  submitted  65  pages  of  employment
records from this time period, and none corroborates the information in the incident report.
The one page that the Government cited as support is illegible. (Tr. 19-27, 31-34, 39-68,
73, 88-105; GE 4 at page 56, 5; AE E, G; HE 2)
