Applicant is 30 years old.  He is not married and has no children.  He has a high
school  diploma  and  some  on-line  college  courses.  He  holds  the  position  of  Security
Specialist.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline  E  – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  engaged  in  multiple  instances  of  workplace
misconduct  between  2011  and  2017,  and  that  he  deliberately  falsified  his  security
clearance application dated March 2016, to conceal this misconduct.  Applicant admits
each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.
In  October 2015, during  his probationary period,  Applicant  was  terminated  from
his  employment  at  the  Department  of  Defense.  Applicant  was  terminated  for
deliberately  falsifying  his  time  card  and  abusing  his  telework  agreement.  He  is  not
eligible for rehire.
On  numerous  other  occasions,  Applicant  has  violated  company  policies  and
procedures  in  various  ways.  From  2011  to  2017,  Applicant  received  both  written  and
verbal  warnings  on  eight  different  occasions  from  four  different  employers  for
disregarding time and attendance policies and for not staying at his assigned workplace.
In  June  2017,  Applicant  received  a  written  warning  from  his  employer  at  the
Pentagon for not informing his supervisor that he was taking leave.
In  June  2017,  Applicant  received  a  verbal  warning  from  his  employment  at  the
Pentagon  for  committing  a  security  violation,  (which  he  did  not  self-report)  when  he
failed to escort a visitor back to the visitor’s center security desk.
1.e.   Applicant  completed a security  clearance application dated  March 29, 2016.  In
response  to  Section  13A,  Employment  Activities,  Employer  Reason  3  for  Leaving
Question stated “For this employment have any of the following happened to you in the
last  seven  years?”  Received  Discipline  or  Warning.  For  this  employment,  in  the  last
seven  years;   received   a   written   warning,  been   officially  reprimanded,   suspended,   or
disciplined   for   misconduct   in  the   workplace,  such   as  a   violation   of  security  policy?”
Applicant  answered,  “NO.”     He  deliberately  failed   to   disclose   the   information   set  forth
above.
1.f.   Section  13A,  of  the  same  security  clearance  application,  under  Employment
Activities,  Employer 4 at  Defense  Pentagon  Reason  for Leaving  Question  stated,  “For
this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  years?”
Fired from a Job? Quit after being told you would be fired? Have you left a job by mutual
agreement  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance?  And/or  Received  Discipline  or
Warning.  For  this  employment,  in  the  last  seven  years;  received  a  written  warning,
been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace,
such as a violation of security policy?”  Applicant answered, “NO.”  He deliberately failed
to disclose the information set forth above.
1.g.   Section  13A,  of  the  same  security  clearance  application,  under  Employment
Activities,  Employer 5 at  Defense  Pentagon  Reason  for Leaving  Question  stated,  “For
this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  years?”
Fired from a Job? Quit after being told you would be fired? Have you left a job by mutual
agreement  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance?  And/or  Received  Discipline  or
Warning.  For  this  employment,  in  the  last  seven  years;  received  a  written  warning,
been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace,
such as a violation of security policy?”  Applicant answered, “NO.”  He deliberately failed
to disclose the information set forth above.
1.h.   Section  13A,  of  the  same  security  clearance  application,  under  Employment
Activities, Employer 6 Reason for Leaving Question  stated, “For this employment have
any of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  years?”  Fired  from  a  Job?  Quit
after being told you would be fired? Have you left a job by mutual agreement notice of
For  this
unsatisfactory  performance?  And/or  Received  Discipline  or  Warning.
employment,  in  the  last  seven  years;  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially
reprimanded,  suspended,  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a
violation  of  security  policy?”  Applicant  answered,  “NO.”  He  deliberately  failed  to
disclose the information set forth above.
1.i.
Section  13A,  of  the  same  security  clearance  application,  under  Employment
Activities, Employer 7 Reason for Leaving Question  stated, “For this employment have
any of the  following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  years?”  Fired  from  a  Job?  Quit
after being told you would be fired? Have you left a job by mutual agreement notice of
unsatisfactory  performance?  And/or  Received  Discipline  or  Warning.
For  this
employment,  in  the  last  seven  years;  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially
reprimanded,  suspended,  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a
violation  of  security  policy?”  Applicant  answered,  “NO.”  He  deliberately  failed  to
disclose the information set forth above.
Applicant  explained  that  he  mishandled  his  security  clearance  when  he  was
younger, and he took advantage of it in the wrong way.  He realizes that he should not
have lied on the  security  clearance application.  He believes  that he has  matured  and
grown  since  this  behavior  last  occurred.  He  admits  that  he  engaged  in  a  pattern  of
irresponsible,  unreliable,  and  untrustworthy  behavior.  He  admits  that  he  violated
company policies and procedures.  This misconduct was documented by several of his
past  employers  and  shows  Applicant’s  unreliability.  Applicant  stated  that  he  has
struggled with immaturity, lack of integrity, and poor judgment.
Letters  of  recommendation  submitted  on  Applicant’s  behalf  attest  to  his
recognized  talent,  character,  and  leadership  abilities.  He  is  described  by  those  who
know  him  as  professional,  confident,  great  motivator,  team  player,  and  leader.  He  is
known  to  strive  hard  to  deliver  excellence  at  the  highest  level.  He  is  highly
recommended for any position available to him.  (Attachments to Applicant’s Answer to
SOR.)
