In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a through 1.m
with explanations. (Item 2) Applicant, age 49, is divorced and does not have any children.
(Item 3)  He served in the U.S. Marine Corps from August 1992 until September 1992
and reported an honorable discharge.  He served in the U.S. Army on active duty from
March  1996  until  September  1997  with  an  honorable  discharge.  He  was  in  the  Army
Reserve from March 2004 until June 2006, and reported on his SCA that he received a
discharge other than honorable. (Item 3)
Applicant attended a technical institute from September 2010 to March 2013, with
a  break,  and  from  June  2013  to  March  2015.  He  was  taking  evening  class  while  he
worked. The institute closed while he was in school and he did not receive a diploma. He
has  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  February  2019  as  a  technician.  (Item  3).
Applicant completed his security clearance application on May 24, 2021. (Item 3)
FINANCIAL
The SOR alleges that Applicant has thirteen delinquent accounts in the amount of
approximately  $41,500.  The  majority  of  the  debts  are  collection  accounts  for  student
loans, two medical accounts, and charged-off consumer accounts. (Item 1)
In his subject interview, Applicant reported that he is working with a financial coach
to organize his debts from high priority to least priority. However, he is not establishing a
repayment plan nor working with creditors to lessen the debt. (Item 4) He also reported
to the investigator that he failed to file and pay 2018 Federal and state taxes. He did not
ask for an extension and is trying to collect tax information from 2018. He has not made
any efforts to resolve the issue. (Item 4) This is not alleged on the SOR, however in light
of the whole person it is considered. (Item 4)
As  to  SOR  allegation  ¶  1.a,  a  collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $11,076,
Applicant stated that he was not aware of this account and he is disputing it.  He stated
that he never resided at this complex. He reported that it is now off his credit report.
As to SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b, through 1.f, and 1.h-1.i  are collection accounts  for
Department of Education  student loans, Applicant submitted a letter, dated September
13,  2021  stating  he  was  relieved  of  his  obligation  to  pay  and  that  the  credit  bureaus
remove all information reported by the Department regarding this debt from your credit
bureau report. This is the result of a scandal and closure of the institute that Applicant
attended. I find for Applicant on these accounts.
As to SOR allegation ¶1.g,  a collection account in the amount of  $2,929, Applicant
stated he was not aware of this account and is disputing it. He also noted that he would
contact the creditor and if it was his account, he would make arrangements to satisfy the
debt. (Item 5).
As to SOR allegation ¶ 1.j a charged-off account in the amount of $450, Applicant
admitted the debt and stated that he is disputing the account. The current balance has
not changed. (Item 6) This appears to be a car loan and is on his credit report. (Item 5).
As to SOR allegation ¶ 1.k a charged-off account in the amount of $432, Applicant
stated that this was his ex-wife’s account that she opened in his name.  He stated that he
fought to have it removed from his credit report and it no longer appears on the report.
(Item 3) He submitted a copy of dispute packet from a partial credit report that reflected
the account was not paid. However, the credit report states that it was charged off. (Item
5)
As  to  SOR  allegations  ¶¶1.l  and  1.m,  medical  accounts  for  $152  and  $126,
Applicant stated these were for hospital visits and should have been paid by the VA. He
is not sure why they appear on his credit report. However, they have been removed from
his 2021 credit report.
Applicant stated that he is now working with someone to “get his credit in a better
space  than  what  it  has  been  over  the  years.  He  also  has  been  disputing  several
accounts.” (Item 5) For the other debts listed in the interview and his SCA, he would like
to set up payment plans.
There is no information in the record that he received financial counseling or has
a budget. He did not produce sufficient evident to mitigate his case, Although, not listed
on the SOR, Applicant told the investigator that he had not filed his 2018 Federal and
State taxes and has not done anything to resolve the issue. (Item 5)
.
