In Applicant’s answer, he admitted some of the allegations in the SOR (¶¶ 1.a-1.c
and  2.b),  and  denied  other  allegations  (¶¶  2.c-2.d)  (He  failed  to  admit  or  deny  ¶  2.a,
which  is  a  cross-allegation  of  ¶¶  1.a-1.c,  under  Guideline  E.  His  admissions  to  the
underlying  Guideline  H  allegations  will  also  be  recognized  as  an  admission  to  this
allegation). He also provided some explanation for his conduct. I adopt his admissions
as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 29 years old. He is single, never has married, and has no  children.
He  has  worked  as a  computer engineer  for his current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,
since September 2017. That contractor is subject to the drug-free workplace provisions
of 41 U.S.C. 701 et seq. Applicant holds a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 6, 20; GE 1-2)
The SOR alleged, under Guideline H, that Applicant used (from December 2012
to October 2019) and purchased marijuana (from December 2012 to April 2014). It also
alleged Applicant used marijuana after being granted a security clearance in 2017. I find
this  allegation,  SOR  ¶  1.b,  is  duplicative  with  SOR  ¶  1.a  because  it  alleges  the  same
conduct, i.e., use of marijuana. The SOR language stating that the use was “after being
granted  a  security  clearance”  does  not  equate  to  the  disqualifying  language  of  “while
granted access to classified information or holding a sensitive position” and is therefore
superfluous. I find in favor of Applicant regarding SOR ¶ 1.b. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c)
Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged all the allegations listed above. (SOR
¶  2.a)  Additionally,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  provided  false
information  when  completing  his  September  2019  security  clearance  application,
specifically  relating  to  Section  23;  and  during  his  background  interview  with  an
investigator in November 2019, when he denied his marijuana use between December
2012 and October 2019. (SOR ¶¶ 2.b-2.d)
Applicant admitted his marijuana use  between February 2012 and April 2014  in
his  September  2017  SCA.  He  described  that  use  as  experimental  and  that  he  used
marijuana approximately once a week as a freshman in college. He also stated he had
no  intent  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  because  he  “no  longer  enjoy  the  effects  of
marijuana.” He received his secret security clearance in approximately January 2018. In
2019, his employer requested that Applicant seek a top secret clearance. This required
the  completion  of  a  new  SCA.  Applicant  completed  this  SCA  in  September  2019.  (Tr.
20; GE 1-2)
In  his  2019  SCA,  under  Section  23,  Applicant  denied  using  any  illegal  drugs
within the past seven years and he also denied using drugs while possessing a security
clearance. He failed to list on this SCA his drug use from December 2012 to April 2014,
which he previously listed on his September 2017 SCA. These uses would fall within the
seven-year window about which the question asked. In November 2019, Applicant was
interviewed by a background investigator and was  asked the same two questions, i.e.,
whether he had any involvement with illegal drugs in the last seven years and if he had
any  involvement  with  illegal  drugs  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  Applicant
answered “no” to both questions. (GE 1-2 (section 23), GE 3 (p. 7-using bottom center
page numbers)
The  investigator  confronted  Applicant  with  his  admissions  from  his  2017  SCA.
After  being  confronted,  Applicant  admitted  to  his  earlier  marijuana  use  (2012  to  2014)
and expounded on more recent use. He described smoking marijuana in leaf form with
a  water  pipe  at  home  or  at  parties.  He  used  about  four  times  annually,  with  his  most
recent use in October 2019, which he claimed was also his last use. He claimed his last
purchase of marijuana was in April 2014. He also claimed that he did not associate with
anyone who uses drugs. He has not received any drug treatment or counseling.  (GE 3
(p. 7))
Applicant  admitted  his  marijuana  use  and  purchase  of  marijuana  in  his  SOR
answer.  He  also  admitted  intentionally  providing  false  information  on  his  2019  SCA
because he became aware that using drugs could disqualify him from holding a security
clearance. He admitted during his testimony that he provided false information because
he was concerned he might lose his job if he admitted to his marijuana use. (Tr. 20, 23)
Applicant offered the following explanation for his conduct. When he was hired in
2017 by his defense contractor employer he claimed to have stopped using marijuana
because  he  lived  in  a  state  where  it  was  illegal.  He  was  transferred  to  a  new  location
within  the  company  in  August  2019.  His  transfer  was  to  a  state  where  marijuana  use
and possession is legal under state law. He began using marijuana when he arrived in
the  new  state  because  he  claimed  he  was  unaware  that  use  of  marijuana  was  illegal
under  federal  law.  He  further  claimed  that  he  was  first  made  aware  of  the  federal
prohibition  when  his  background  investigator  stated  this  to  him  in  November  2019,
which  is  when  he  claims  he  stopped  using  marijuana.  He  also  claimed  he  could  not
remember  being  briefed  by  his  employer  that  marijuana  use  was  illegal  under  federal
law and prohibited by its employees. I find these claims not credible. (Tr. 22, 30)
