Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  civilian  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant never married and has three children from prior relationships, ages 24,
15,  and  14.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  18)  She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May  1993  and  a
bachelor’s  degree in 2005. (GE 1-2) She reported no military service.
Since   October  2019,   Applicant  has  been   employed   by  her   current  defense
contractor   as   an   administrative  assistant.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.   13,   19)  Between   November
2007  and  August 2019, she  was employed  as a  deputy clerk of  a  federal court. (GEs 1-
2;  Tr.   14,  18)   She   reported   unemployment   between   August   2019   and   October   2019.
(GEs 1-2) She has never held a security clearance. (GE 1)
Applicant’s  access to court files
In August 2019, Applicant was fired from her employment as a courtroom deputy
for  a  federal  district  court  for  cited  accessing  sealed  court  files  that  she  did  not  have
permission to access. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 14, 19-20, 27)
Fully  briefed  and  aware  of  her  employer’s  computer  usage  policy,  Applicant
intentionally accessed sealed documents  digitally  filed with her court  employer without
authorization or need to know in or about July 2019. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 24-25) The court files
she  accessed  were  sensitive  documents  covering  ongoing  criminal  proceedings
involving  a  highly  dangerous  local  drug,  racketeering,  and  murderous  gang.  (HEs  I-II)
Applicant  accessed  these  documents  28  times  while  employer  as  a  courtroom  deputy
clerk  with  neither  authorization  nor  a  demonstrated  need  to  know.  (GEs  1-3)  Whether
she ever passed along information from the sealed files she accessed to unauthorized
third  persons  remains  unproven  from  the  received  evidence.  Applicant  for  her  part
denied ever disclosing any of the contents of the sealed files she accessed to her friend
of  many  years,  and  there  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  to  materially  challenge  and
contradict her. (Tr. 14)
In  an  interview  conducted  by  the  court’s  executive  court  clerk  and  Applicant’s
overall supervisor in August 2019, Applicant was informed  that she violated  the  court’s
computer  usage  policy,  as  well  as  Canon  2  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Judicial
Employees. (GE 3) During her meeting with the court’s senior clerk, she  and  the  court
clerk  discussed  her  accessing  sealed  documents  filed  with  the  court.  (GE  3)
Acknowledging that she accessed sealed documents involving a pending criminal case
covering  a  certain  criminal  defendant  associated  with  a  notorious  drug  trafficking,
murdering, and racketeering gang, she explained that she had done so “out of curiosity”
because it was a big case in her community. (GE 3)
Asked  by  the  interviewing  senior  court  clerk  about  her  access  frequency,  she
replied  that  she  could  not  recall.  (GE  3)  Questioned  about  whether  she  had  ever
printed,  forwarded,  or  distributed  information  from  the  court  files  she  accessed,  she
indicated  that  she  had  not.  (GE  3;  Tr.  14)  Asked  further  whether  she  had  any  friends
affiliated with the gang, she replied that she had an undisclosed friend who gave birth to
a baby fathered by an identified member of the street gang. (GE 3; Tr. 28)
Upon  further  investigation  of  the  records  covering  the  sealed  files  access
incident,  the  court’s  senior  clerk  and  his  office  documented  28  separate  incidents  of
Applicant’s accessing the sealed files covering the pending cases without authorization
or  demonstrated  need  to  know.  (GE  3)  Accessing  sealed  court  files  without
authorization of demonstrated need to know constituted a direct violation of the  court’s
computer usage policy. (GE 3) Applicant’s awareness of the court’s computer use policy
is  imputed  to  Applicant  by  virtue  of  her  signing  the  court’s  computer  use  policy
agreement acknowledging and confirming her responsibility to comply with the policy’s
requirements. (GE 3)
Asked  in her interview with  the  senior court clerk whether she  had  viewed  sealed
information  in  other court cases more than  five  times without authorization  or a  need  to
know,  she   initially  expressed   uncertainty   how  many  times   she   had   done   so   before
acknowledging   multiple  instances  of  unauthorized   access.  (GE  3;   Tr.  20,  23,  26,  and
30) Pressed  further about her accessing  court files in the  pending   street gang  criminal
case,   Applicant   told   the   court  clerk   that  while   she   had   heard   of   the   local   street  gang
referenced in the sealed files, she did not know any of the gang members. (GE 3))  Upon
further  questioning,  she  acknowledged  having  a  friend  who  had  a  baby  with  one  of  the
gang members. (GE 3)
Finding  that  Applicant  had  not  been
initially  forthright  about  her  friend’s
relationship with the gang member, the interviewing court clerk concluded that Applicant
individually  and  collectively  breached  Canon  2  of  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Judicial
Employees  and  implicitly  violated  the  trust  and  confidence  placed  in  her  by  the  court.
(GE 3) Based on the clerk’s careful consideration of the conditions and requirements of
her  position,  he  terminated  her  employment  with  the  court.  Applicant’s  separation  did
not include any reserved future eligibility for rehire consideration.
In  her  own  hearing  testimony,  Applicant  could  not  supply  any  more  information
on her relationship with her friend and the latter’s links to the local street gang member.
(Tr. 30) Nor could she shed any further light about what intentions she harbored when
accessing the sealed files in issue beyond curiosity over a heavily reported case in the
media. (Tr. 16-18, 30-32) Applicant was at all times fully aware of the serious security
concerns  posed  by  the  street  gang  charged  with  murder,  drug  trafficking,  and
racketeering in the pending criminal proceeding in her community. (HE I) While she has
not  maintained  any  Facebook  or other  contact  with  any  of  the  19  indicted  street  gang
members  referenced  in  the  sealed  files  she  accessed,  she  still  maintains  a  friendship
with this friend who is linked to the local street gang member. (Tr. 28)
In  her  most  recent  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  conducted  in  April  2020,
Applicant  expounded  more  on  her  breach  of  her  court’s  computer  use  policy  and
ensuing  separation  from  federal  service.  (GE  2)  In  her  PSI,  she  volunteered  that  she
was the only one involved in the sealed file incident and was not authorized to access
the sealed court files.
She assured the investigating agent that she had no reason to access the court
files  other  than  her  harboring  curiosity  about  the  highly  publicized  case.  (GE  2)  She
further  assured  the  investigator  that  she  had  learned  her  lesson  and  is  now  better
informed  of  what  she  is  allowed  and  not  allowed  to  do.  (GE  2)  Applicant’s  curiosity
assurances  cannot  be  inferentially  reconciled  with  her  friendship  with  the  friend  in  a
parenting relationship with one of the gang members or with the number of  times (28)
she accessed the sealed files in issue.
