Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since about August 2018. He worked for the same company from
about  July  2016  to  March  2018,  when  he  was  laid  off.  He  was  unemployed  for  a  few
months before he was rehired. He served on active duty in the U.S. military from 2006
until he was honorably discharged in 2015. He has a bachelor’s degree earned in 2018.
He married in 2007 and divorced in January 2022. He has custody of his two children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 30-34, 55; GE 1, 2; AE B, D, E, M)
Applicant’s  Military  Service
Applicant was the honor graduate of his boot camp. He was selected below the
zone for promotion to E-4 in 2008. He deployed to Iraq in 2009 and was recognized with
several medals and awards. He received nonjudicial punishment under Article 15 of the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) in about March 2014. He stated that he shared
test material for a promotion test with another servicemember. He was reduced to E-4.
(Tr. at 32-34, 66-67; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE E, H, M)
Applicant went through training to  be  a remotely piloted aircraft sensor operator
in  2012,  2013,  and  early  2014,  and  he  worked  in  that  capacity  in  2014  and  2015.  He
was  involved  in  combat  missions  resulting  in  casualties.  He  completed  20  combat
missions during a 45-day period in late 2014, and he had more than 1,000 flight hours
total. He struggled with how the missions were affecting him. He noted a change in his
personality, and he had headaches and anger issues. (Tr. at 37-38; GE 3; AE B, E, H,
M)
Mental Health Treatment
Military Behavioral Health Center
Applicant  sought  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  in  about
October 2014. His medical records indicate that he felt targeted by his squadron since
he received an Article 15. He was attempting to use a program that would allow him to
transfer  from  active  duty  to  the  reserve.  He  appeared  desperate  to  use  any  means  to
get  off  active  duty.  He  reported  that  he  often  became  so  angry  that  he  could  feel  his
temperature  rise.  He  was  provided  an  anger  management  notebook  and  given
homework.  He  did  not  complete  the  assigned  homework.  He  did  not  appear  for  two
appointments, and a termination note was completed in March 2015.  (Tr. at 36-38, 68;
GE 3; AE B, E, H, M)
Applicant  returned  to  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  in  June
2015. His parents were both diagnosed with cancer, and his mother has since passed
away. His mother was visiting, and his family had an “intervention” with him and told him
how different he had become. Applicant reported that he was having increased anxiety,
social  withdrawal,   increased   depressed   mood,  hypersensitivity  to   surroundings,  and
severe  nightmares  with   homicidal  themes  of  killing   his  family  members.  He   denied
suicidal or  homicidal ideation, plan,  or  intent. He  noted  that  he  “jokes” on  occasion  to  his
wife about shooting  himself,  and he  placed a gun to his head at one point, but he  denied
that  he  had  any  active  thoughts  to  end  his  life. His  wife   removed  all weapons  from  the
home.  He  thought  that  inpatient  psychiatric treatment would be  helpful to  him.   He was
voluntarily admitted  to  a  civilian  inpatient  psychiatric hospital the  next day on  June  10,
2015.  (Tr. at 39-42, 68-70, 75, 77; Applicant’s response to SOR;  GE  1-3; AE B)
Inpatient Treatment
Applicant was an inpatient at a civilian psychiatric hospital from June 10, 2015, to
June  22,  2015.  His  discharge  diagnosis  was  major  depressive  disorder  (MDD),  single
episode,  moderate  to  severe,  with  mild  psychotic  symptoms;  posttraumatic  stress
to
disorder  (PTSD);  generalized  anxiety  disorder  (GAD);
depression  and  anxiety;  partner  relational  problems,  moderate;  and  job-related
problems. (Tr. at 41-42, 70; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 4, 5; AE B, K)
insomnia  secondary
Applicant  was  prescribed  medication  at  the  hospital  and  for  his  aftercare.  The
hospital reported:
In   combination   with   individual,   group,   and   milieu   activities   his  mood   and
outlook  significantly  improved.   He  was   very  much   engaged   in   treatment,
and   by  discharge   he   was  no   longer  having   any  further  depressive,
suicidal,  or  homicidal  ideations.  He  was  compliant  with   medications  and
had   no   side   effects.   His  aftercare   was   coordinated   with   [military  base}
representatives.  (GE 5)
Military Behavioral Health Center
Applicant  received  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  after  his
discharge  from  the  civilian  hospital.  (Tr.  at  43-44,  73)  His  medical  records  show  the
following clinical impression/summary:
The  patient voluntarily  presented  for medication  management after recent
hospitalization  for depression, anxiety, and  nightmares.  He  was  diagnosed
with   MDD,  GAD,   and   PTSD  at  the   inpatient   facility;  however,   the   patient
does   not  spontaneously  offer   sufficient   symptoms   to   meet  criteria   for
PTSD or GAD. Further, the  depressive symptoms he  reports appear  to  be
directly tied  to  work-related  stress,  and  the  patient  has previously  divulged
a  belief that  his symptoms would  be  entirely resolved  if  he  were  removed
from   the   work  environment.  Psychological  testing   has   demonstrated
symptom  exaggeration  and/or feigning  on  tests (SIMS,  MMPI [invalid  due
to  over-endorsement], MCMI  [valid  but demonstrated  over-endorsement]).
Diagnostically,   these   results  complicate   the   clinical   picture  and   render  it
difficult  to   determine   what,   if  anything,   he   endorses  can   or  should  be
targeted  by treatment.  The  patient continues  to  maintain that his report is
that
features
(affective
the   patient
an  accurate   portrayal   of  his  symptoms.   At   this  stage,  it  is   my   clinical
opinion
likely  does   experience   some   degree   of
psychological distress,  but it appears that this distress is the  result of poor
coping   and   maladaptive   personality
instability,
inappropriate  and  intense  anger, recurrent suicidality). He  was started  on
his  current  medication   regimen   while   inpatient.   We   will   continue   these
medications  for  now,  as  we  continue   to   gather  data   and   determine   what
symptoms   are   truly  present  and   amenable   to   treatment.   Regarding   the
personality features, it is likely that the  use of quetiapine can target anxiety
and  sleep  disturbance,  and  prazosin  can  decrease  autonomic arousal. We
will  add  a  small  daytime  dose  to  see if this  alleviates  his endorsement of
significant   daytime   hyperarousal.  Other  medication   changes   will  be
deferred  until diagnostic clarity can  be  attained. He  does not  present with
acute  safety concerns and  is appropriate  for outpatient management.  (GE
3)
The  DSM-5  diagnoses  were  unspecified  personality  disorder,  malingering,  and
rule  out  adjustment  disorder  with  mixed  anxiety  and  depressed  mood.  Under  the  risk
assessment section, which primarily dealt with suicide and homicide, the medical record
reported:
Hospitalization  is  not  deemed  necessary at this time, as the  patient does
not   present  a   clear  or  imminent  danger   to   self   or  others.  There   is  no
current
level   of   care.   Outpatient
management  is  currently   most  appropriate   and   least  restrictive   level  of
care. The  patient  is  deemed  to  be  a  reliable reporter and  is  competent  to
make healthcare decisions. (emphasis in original)  (GE 3)
for   pursuing   a   higher
indication
The last prognosis in the medical records in evidence was provided on July 30,
2015,  “Prognosis:  Guarded,  prognosis  depends  on  diagnostic  clarification  and  will  be
worsened by lack of candor.” (GE 3)
Applicant  went  on  terminal  leave  shortly  after  the  last  entry.  He  was  honorably
discharged as an E-4. The reason for the discharge was reduction in force because of
his  rank  and  time  in  service.  He  has  a  100%  disability  rating  from  the  Department  of
Veterans Affairs (VA). (Tr. at 34, 45, 67, 74-75, 81; GE 1, 2; AE B, F)
VA Treatment
Applicant  worked  in  Afghanistan  from  about  January  2016  to  June  2016.  He
returned  to  Afghanistan  in  about  July  2016.  From  2016  to  2018,  he  worked  in
Afghanistan seven times. He has received counseling and treatment from the VA since
2016.  Applicant  stated  that  it  is  for  PTSD,  anxiety,  and  depression.  He  would  see  the
therapist  when  he  was  in  the  United  States.  The  VA  reported  that  he  was  seen  for  a
total  of  32  visits  from  August  2018  to  September  2019  for  PTSD-related  issues.  His
treatment  at  that  facility  concluded  because  he  moved  to  another  state.  (Tr.  at  47-51,
80; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 6; AE B, L)
Applicant  has  been  treated  at  the  VA  at  his current  location  since  2019.  (Tr.  at
52AE J, M, O) The VA psychiatrist reported:
Again,  he  has shown consistency while  dutifully fulfilling  his obligations as
a   patient.  This  includes  good   attendance   with   scheduled   appointments,
being   truthful  and   forthcoming   when   expressing   his  concerns,  and
cooperating  and  adhering  to  the  agreed-upon  treatment plan. Throughout
this time, he   has not  demonstrated  any  disruptive   behaviors to   myself  or
clinic staff. [Applicant]  has been a  model patient in our clinic.  (AE  N)
Applicant  stated  that  his  mental  health  is  stable.  He  sees  the  VA  psychiatrist
once a month. He takes his medication. He has coping mechanisms, such as going to
the gym, listening to music and going to the dog park.  He finds it helpful to talk with a
friend who was also a sensor operator. The friend understands what they dealt with. He
credibly stated that he will seek additional help  if he needs it. (Tr. at 55, 58-63, 78-79,
82)
DOD CAF Psychological Evaluation - July  2021
The DOD CAF requested that Applicant undergo a psychological evaluation. The
evaluation  was  conducted  on  July  16,  2021,  by  a  licensed  psychologist  (hereinafter
referred to as psychologist or DOD CAF psychologist) who was contracted from private
practice  by  the  DOD  CAF.  A  report  of  the  evaluation  was  prepared  on  July  26,  2021.
(GE 7)
The  psychologist  utilized  a  clinical
interview,  self-report  questionnaires,
structured  personality  assessment  (Minnesota  Multiphasic  Personality  Inventory-2
Restructured  Form-MMPI-2-RF),  and  medical  records.  The  psychologist  indicated  that
Applicant  “exhibited  a  pattern  of  responding  that  raises  questions  regarding  validity  of
the  results,” and  that Applicant “produced a profile that shows evidence of inconsistent
responding and over-reporting of symptoms throughout the protocol.” (GE 7)
The   psychologist  found   that  based   on   Applicant’s  “presentation   and   recent
history,  his  judgment  and   impulse  control  were  good.   But   there  is  some   evidence   to
suggest  a   history  of   difficulties  with   judgment  and   impulse  control.”  The   diagnostic
impression was:
indicate
inconsistencies   regarding
interview,   review  of  his  medical  records,   and   self-report
Clinical
questionnaires,
the   presence   or
absence  of  current psychiatric symptoms. Review of his completed  MMPI-
2-RF   shows  [Applicant]   answered   all   questions  on   the   assessment
measure,  but   exhibited   a   pattern  of  responding   that  raises   questions
regarding  validity  of  the  results. [Applicant]  produced  a  profile that  shows
evidence   of  inconsistent   responding   and   over-reporting   of  symptoms
throughout the  protocol. While  there are  elevations on  a  number of  clinical
scales,   including   somatic/cognitive   dysfunction,  emotional  dysfunction,
thought  dysfunction,  interpersonal  functioning   scales  and   interest   scales,
there   is  sufficient  evidence   to   suggest   these   results  are  invalid   and   not
interpretable  at  this  time.   Of   note,  this  pattern  of   inconsistent   responding
and   over-reporting   of   symptoms  is  consistent  throughout  a   number  of
records  and   may   be   reflective   of   a   personality  disorder  or   other   chronic
disorder;  additional  evaluation   is  recommended   if  [Applicant]   would  be
interested in  treatment to address these concerns.
Regarding   [Applicant’s]  self-report  questionnaires,   there   is   evidence   to
suggest  the   presence   of  psychiatric  symptoms.  However,  based   on   the
results  of  the   validity   scales  of  the   MMPI-2-RF   indicating   inconsistent
responding  and  over-reporting  of symptoms,  the  accuracy of [Applicant’s]
self-report measures should  be  interpreted  with  caution.  . .  . Based  on  his
MMPI-2-RF   and   self-report  measures,   [Applicant]   does  appear  to   be
experiencing   clinical  distress,  but  due   to   questions  regarding   validity  and
inconsistency  between   the   clinical  interview  and   self-report   measures,  a
specific diagnostic impression is not available at this time. (GE 7)
In the summary and prognosis section, the psychologist wrote:
As  a   result   of  the   above   assessment,   it  is   the   undersigned   clinician’s
opinion  that [Applicant’s] judgment,   reliability, and  trustworthiness are not
appropriately  intact,   as  evidenced   by  inconsistencies  in  the   clinical
interview,  self-report  measures,   patient  history,  and   review   of  records.
Based  on  a  review of National Security Adjudicative Guidelines and  DoD
Personnel  Security  Policy,  there  is  evidence   to   suggest  [Applicant]
displays  a   pattern   of   being   unreliable   with   his  behavior,  which   would
impair  his  judgment,  reliability, and  ability to  properly safeguard classified
national  security  information.   It   is  recommended   [Applicant]   engage   in   a
thorough personality assessment to  determine  the  presence  or absence of
characterological   conditions  and   engage   in   evidence-based   treatment  to
address his difficulties with self and  others.  (GE 7)
The  psychologist  then  listed  as  the  DSM-5  diagnosis,  “Unspecified  Personality
Disorder.” (GE 7)
Applicant’s  Psychological Evaluation - February  2022
Applicant  sought  his  own  evaluation  from  a  licensed  clinical  psychologist
(hereinafter psychologist or Applicant’s  psychologist) in February 2022. The diagnoses
were  posttraumatic  stress  disorder,  chronic;  generalized  anxiety  disorder;  and
dependent,  compulsive,  and  avoidant  personality  traits.  The  psychologist  provided  the
following diagnostic impressions:
[Applicant]   reports   a   history  of   multiple   mood   disorders,  including
depression, bipolar disorder (unknown type), anxiety, and  PTSD. There is
also  a   past  diagnosis   of  unspecified   personality   disorder;  however,  the
applicant  feels  this  was  a   misdiagnosis  and   the   problematic  traits  were
actually symptoms of untreated  bipolar disorder. He stated  that he  is now
being treated  effectively for bipolar disorder by a psychiatrist.
Based   on   my  clinical   interview  of  the   applicant,   it   is  plausible   that  he
suffers  from   manic  depression;  however,  his  insomnia  may   have   also
been   due   to   other  factors,  including   varied   work  shifts,   nightmares,
anxiety,  and  other symptoms of PTSD.  During  this examination,  he  did not
describe  any manic behaviors, other  than  insomnia. His psychological  test
results do  not  suggest  bipolar disorder,  but do  indicate  a  moderate  level of
ongoing   anxiety.  Dependent,   compulsive,  and   avoidant  personality  traits
are  also   noted  on  the  MCMI-IV,  which  may  be   the   traits   implied  by  other
clinicians under the  vague  diagnosis  of  “unspecified  personality  disorder.”
Still, it should be noted that I have  not reviewed those providers’ records.
Regardless   of   the   exact  diagnoses   in  this  case,   it  is   apparent  that
[Applicant’s]   symptoms  are
largely   under  control   with   his   current
medication   regimen,  even   while  working   in  the   same   field  that  led   to   his
initial  psychiatric  treatment.   He  is  aware   of  his  chronic  mental  health
that  he   will   require   ongoing   medicinal
issues,  and   acknowledges
treatment.  He indicated  that is open  to  returning  to  therapy, if needed. He
stated  that he  is asymptomatic at this time  and  has a  good  social  support
system.  His home  life  is stable now that  he  is divorced  and he  has  custody
of his children. He  maintained  that  he  will  remain  compliant with  any and
all treatment modalities, as  needed. He  does  not  feel he  needs counseling
at this time.
Empirical  data   suggest  that   individuals  with   chronic  mood   disorders  and
personality  disorders   should
(therapy  and/or
pharmacotherapy)  as   long   as  symptomatic.  If   [Applicant]   follows   these
guidelines,  my  clinical  opinion   in   this  case   is  that  he   would   have   a   fair
prognosis.  (AE  L)
in  care
remain
Character  Evidence
Applicant  is  active  in  his  children’s  lives,  and  he  volunteers  in  his  community,
including  coaching  youth  sports.  He  called  witnesses  and  submitted  documents  and
letters attesting to his excellent work performance,  strong moral character, and mental
stability. He is praised for his trustworthiness, reliability, judgment, honesty, work ethic,
professionalism, loyalty, adherence to security rules, and integrity. (Tr. at 10-27; AE B,
C, G-I)
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental  Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5)
Major Depressive Disorder
The  criterion  symptoms  for  major  depressive  disorder  must  be  present  nearly
every  day  to  be  considered  present,  with  the  exception  of  weight  change  and  suicidal
ideation.  Fatigue  and  sleep  disturbance  are  present  in  a  high  proportion  of  cases;
psychomotor disturbances  are much  less common but are  indicative  of greater overall
severity, as is the presence of delusional or near-delusional guilt.
The  essential  feature  of  a  major  depressive  episode  is  a  period  of  at  least  two
weeks during which there is either depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in
nearly  all  activities.  Many  individuals  report  or  exhibit  increased  irritability  (e.g.,
persistent  anger,  a  tendency  to  respond  to  events  with  angry  outbursts  or  blaming
others, an exaggerated sense of frustration over minor events).
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder
The  essential  feature  of  PTSD  is  the  development  of  characteristic  symptoms
following  exposure  to  one  or  more  traumatic  events.  Individuals  with  PTSD  may  be
quick  tempered  and  may  even  engage  in  aggressive  verbal  and/or  physical  behavior
with  little  or  no  provocation.  They  may  also  engage  in  reckless  or  self-destructive
behavior such as dangerous driving, excessive alcohol or drug use, or self injurious or
suicidal behavior.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder
The  key  feature  of  generalized  anxiety  disorders  is  persistent  and  excessive
anxiety and worry about various domains, including work and school performance, that
the individual finds difficult to control.
Personality Disorder
The  general  definition  of  personality  disorder  that  applies  to  each  of  the  ten
specific personality disorders is “an  enduring  pattern of inner experience and behavior
that deviates markedly from the expectations of the individual’s culture, is pervasive and
inflexible, has an onset in adolescence or early adulthood, is stable over time, and leads
to  distress  or  impairment.”  Unspecified  personality  disorder  is  used  when  “symptoms
characteristic  of  a  personality  disorder  that  cause  clinically  significant  distress  or
impairment  in  social,  occupational,  or  other  important  area  of  functioning  predominate
but  do  not  meet  the  full  criteria  for  any  of  the  disorders  in  the  personality  disorders
diagnostic class.”
