Applicant is a 57-year-old marine painter employed by a defense contractor since
March  2018.  His  previous  jobs,  when  he  was  not  incarcerated,  were  all  in  the  private
sector.  He  has  never  married,  but  he  has  three  adult  children.  He  has  never  held  a
security clearance.
Applicant has an extensive criminal record. During his criminal history, he used 11
aliases  and birth  dates  and  six different  Social  Security  numbers.  (GX  2.)  His  criminal
record  includes  19  arrests  and  charges  for drug  offenses,  11  felony  convictions,  three
sentences for imprisonment for terms exceeding one year, and at least one sentence that
resulted in incarceration for more than one year.
When  Applicant  submitted  his  SCA  in  August  2018,  he  answered  “Yes”  to  the
question in Section 5 asking if he had used any other names, and he listed one name that
he used from January 1990 to January 2000, and he explained that he used the name
because of “different life I was living.” He did not list all the aliases reflected in his criminal
record.
In response to questions in Section 22, he answered “Yes” to questions asking if
he had ever been convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment exceeding one year
and incarcerated for not less than one year; if he had ever been charged with a felony; if
he ever had been charged with an offense involving firearms or explosives; or if he had
ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs. He disclosed that he was
charged with possession of a controlled dangerous substance (CDS) in June 1990, was
sentenced  to  imprisonment  for  eight  years,  and  was  incarcerated  from  June  1990  to
October  1992.  He  did   not  list  any  other  offenses.  The   criminal  records  do   not  reflect
whether he  actually served more than one year of his other jail sentences.
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant falsified his SCA by failing to list all his aliases. SOR
¶ 1.b alleges that he falsified his SCA by failing to disclose his arrests for firearms charges
and drug offenses, felony convictions, and sentences to imprisonment for more than one
year.  The  SOR  does  not  allege  any  security  concerns  under  Guideline  H  (Drug
Involvement and Substance Misuse) or Guideline J (Criminal Conduct).
Applicant  testified  that  he  began  using  drugs  around  1984,  and  he  became
addicted to heroin around 1990. (Tr. 34.) After he was released from prison in April 2010,
he went back to his old neighborhood and same friends and resumed his drug abuse. In
November 2010, he was encouraged by his then fiancée to change his environment. He
entered an 11-month drug program and then joined Narcotics Anonymous (NA). He now
attends NA meetings three or four times a week. He has a sponsor, who has been drug-
free for 23 years. He became a sponsor about a year ago. He testified that he does not
remember everything he has done, but he knows that it was wrong. He is hoping for an
opportunity to progress in his career and be a productive member of society. (Tr. 34-37.)
Applicant testified that he remembered being interviewed in May 2019 and being
asked  if  he  had  any  aliases  and  he  disclosed  the  one  he  could  remember.  He
remembered that the investigator confronted him with additional aliases, and he admitted
that he had used  them.  (Tr. 39-40.) He admitted  that he  disclosed being  charged  with
only one felony, knowing that he had been charged with many more. He testified that he
believed that “you guys” knew about his entire record, and he was “just trying to simplify
it,”  because  he  knew  that  he  would  be  questioned  about  his  criminal  record.  He  was
nervous  and  intimidated  at  the  interview  with  the  security  investigator,  and  he  had  no
“people  skills,”  only  “street  communication.”  He  did  not  understand  that  when  he
submitted  his  SCA,  he  was  required  to  provide  specific  information  for  each  incident
instead of a general admission that he had been convicted of a felony and spent time in
jail. (Tr. 41-44.)
One of Applicant’s coworkers, a quality control technician, submitted a statement
supporting his application for a security clearance. He states that Applicant was assigned
to a lead position for a major program. Within weeks, his department saw an immediate
morale boost, timely turnovers, and a high success rate with returning projects back to
the Navy. His coworker states that they “have rarely experienced such precise, reliable
workmanship  and  inclusiveness  that  [Applicant]  has  been  able  to  coax  out  of  the
subcontractors.” (AX A.)
Applicant presented the testimony of a witness who has known him for about 12
years and participates in NA with him. The witness served on active duty in the U.S. Navy
and is a disabled veteran. She was hired by a defense contractor as a welder in 2004,
was granted a security clearance, progressed to a management position, and retired in
May  2022.  Before  being  hired,  she  was  a  convicted  felon  with  a  history  of  drug
involvement. She has known Applicant and watched him grow for 12 years. She is not
Applicant’s  sponsor, but  she   sees  him   at  NA   meetings,  sometimes  weekly  but  once   a
month   at  a   minimum.   She   recalls  her  own   experience   of  being   questioned   by  an
investigator and  trying  to  answer truthfully in spite  of the  “haze  of addiction.” She  hopes
that Applicant will  have  an  opportunity to  obtain  a  clearance  and  have  a  successful career.
(Tr. 19-26.)
