Applicant,  28,  has  worked  on  the  same  federal  contract  as  a  research  analyst
since August 2016. Her current employer was awarded the contract in March 2020. She
was initially granted national security eligibility in January 2016 by another government
agency. She completed her most recent security clearance application in January 2021,
disclosing $23,000 in delinquent student loans. She explained that the delinquency was
caused  by  a  mistake  she  made  regarding  the  repayment  terms  of  her  student  loans.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  owes  approximately  $24,000  on  seven  delinquent
student loan accounts, which she admits.  (GE 2-3)
Applicant attended college between August 2012 and May 2016, but did not earn
a degree. She financed her education with student loans. When she entered repayment,
she  mistakenly  believed  that  her  nine  loans  were  consolidated  into  two  categories:
subsidized  and  unsubsidized.  Accordingly,  each  month,  she  made  a  payment  to  each
category  of  loans.  Less  than  a  year  later,  she  received  a  letter  from  the  U.S.
Department  of  Education.  She  misread  the  letter  and  thought  that  the  agency  had
forgiven  some  portion  of  her  loans.  In  early  2020,  she  received  a  notice  from  a
collection  agency,  informing  her  that  seven  of  her  loans  were  in  default.  The  March
2021 credit report, GE 6, shows that two of the loans have a history of timely payment
and seven loans were in collection status. (GE 5-6)
In  June  2021,  Applicant  received  a  letter from  a  student  loan  collection  agency
regarding the process for rehabilitating her student loans. She completed the first step
of  that  process  by  signing  a  rehabilitation  agreement  in  June  2021,  agreeing  to  make
nine, on-time payments of $207. The letter also informed her that under the CARES Act,
she  was  not  required  to  make  any  payments  during  the  student  loan  payment  pause
that began in March 2020, and the rehabilitation plan would begin after the pause was
scheduled to expire in September 2021. However, President Biden extended the pause
beyond September 2021, and the pause is expected to expire on December 31, 2022.
(GE  4-5;  See,  Press  Release,  Biden-Harris  Administration  Announces  Final  Student
Loan  Pause  Extension  Through  December  31  and  Targeted  Debt  Cancellation  to
Smooth  Transition  to  Repayment  (August  24,  2022),  https://www.ed.gov/news/press-
releases/biden-harris-administration-announces-final-student-loan-pause-extension-
through-december-31-and-targeted-debt-cancellation-smooth-transition-repayment)
Aside from the alleged student loan accounts, Applicant does not have any other
delinquent accounts. She has one credit card, which does not have a balance. Her only
other  consumer  debt  is  a  vehicle  loan,  which  is  in  good  standing.  According  to  the
financial statement she provided during her June 2021 background interview, Applicant
lives within her means and has $107 in disposable income after accounting for all of her
monthly expenses,  which  included  the  anticipated  student  loan  rehabilitation  payment.
(GE 5)
