Applicant  is  47  years  old  and  divorced  He  currently  has  a  partner.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree. Applicant served in the Army Reserve from 1993 to 1994 when he left
the  service  with  an  Honorable  Discharge  for  medical  reasons.  He  was  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  between  2003  and  2015.  He  held  a  security  clearance  during  that
employment  without  difficulty.  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  another  defense
contractor  since  2016  as  a  software  engineer  and  is  attempting  to  retain  a  security
clearance in relation to his employment. (Government Exhibit 2 at Sections 12, 13A, 15,
17, and 25; Attachment F.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions)
The DoD CAF alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is not eligible
for access because he has an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair
his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. Applicant admitted SOR 1.a. He admitted in
part  and  denied  in  part  SOR  1.b.  He  denied  SOR  1.c.  He  admitted  SOR  1.d  with
reservations. He admitted the factual allegations in SOR 1.e, but denied that he currently
has impaired judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.
Several  of  the  SOR  paragraphs  reference  Applicant’s  being  hospitalized  or
receiving mental health treatment as part of the factual statements. (SOR 1.b, 1.c, and
1.d.)  Paragraph  27  of  the  Adjudicative  Guidelines  (AG),  which  sets  forth  the  concern
under  this  guideline,  states  in  pertinent  part,  “No  negative  inference  concerning  the
standards in this guideline may be raised solely on the basis of mental health counseling.”
In  addition,  Applicant  referred  Department  Counsel  and  me
the  Defense
Counterintelligence  and  Security  Agency  factsheet,  “Mental  Health  and  Security
Clearances.” (Attachment C.) It states in part, “Seeking mental health services does not
to
affect  one’s  ability  to  gain  or  hold  security  eligibility.  Adjudicators  regard  seeking
necessary mental health treatment as a positive step in the security clearance process.”
The following discussion will be primarily chronological. In general terms, Applicant
has been suffering from severe and chronic depression for approximately 30 years. This
depression  first  manifested  itself  when  he  was  in  the  Army,  specifically  during  his
Advanced  Individual  Training  cycle  in  1993.  Applicant  eventually  was  hospitalized  for
several months at a military medical facility and then discharged from the Army. During
that time his depression manifested itself in auditory hallucinations and incidents of self
harm. These hallucinations would continue on an occasional basis. Applicant testified that
he last had auditory hallucinations before moving to his current state of residence in 2016.
(Tr. 19-23.)
The  Government  submitted  Applicant’s  Department  of  Veteran’s  Affairs  (VA)
medical records from 1996 to 2015. (Government Exhibit 9.) The records indicate that he
has been suffering from suicidal ideation for many years. He agrees that there were many
occasions when he would obsessively think about suicide. He moved from the thought
stage to suicidal gestures at least five times (sometime between 1992 and 1996, 1999,
2012,  2013,  and  2014).  During  all  of  these  occasions  he  was  receiving  treatment  at
several VA facilities and suicide prevention measures were taken by his mental health
providers.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  not  made  any  suicide  gestures  since  2014.
However, he continued to have suicidal ideation until at least 2020. Applicant testified that
the  therapy  he  is  undergoing  has  helped  him  “to  manage  when  things  start  to  get  to  a
point, you know, how to navigate through those feelings.” (Tr. 26-32, 40.)
Applicant specifically denied in his Answer that he was hospitalized in 1996 at a
VA hospital after a suicide attempt as alleged in SOR 1.c. The available medical records
do not show any such hospitalization, but they are incomplete or unclear because of age.
Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator on January 3, 2018. A Report of
Investigation (ROI) was prepared after the interview. The investigator reported Applicant
stated, “At an unrecalled point between 1992 and 1995 (discrepant), he [Applicant] was
hospitalized for two days at . . . V.A. Clinic.” Applicant testified that he was evaluated at
the VA facility and released, but was not hospitalized. (Government Exhibit 8 at 7; Tr. 26.)
Applicant has received active treatment at various VA facilities for various mental
health issues including major depressive disorder, psychosis, dysthymic disorder, bipolar
disorder, suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, post-traumatic stress disorder, and alcohol
dependence. This treatment started in 1996 and continues to the present. The medical
records show gaps in Applicant’s treatment ranging from months to years. For example,
Applicant  received  no  treatment  at  the  VA  from  2005  to  2009.  Applicant  has  been  on
medication  therapy  repeatedly  during  his  treatment.  However,  he  has  repeatedly
discontinued the treatment over the years due to severe side effects. (Government Exhibit
9; Attachment I; Applicant Exhibits C and D; Tr. 25.)
Applicant  received   an   evaluation   from   a   DoD  mental  health   consultant   in  April
2020.  The   consultant   interviewed   Applicant,  conducted   various  screening   tests,   and
reviewed   Applicant’s  mental  health   records.   He  diagnosed   Applicant  as  suffering   from
Major Depressive  Disorder, recurrent,  in  partial remission;  Posttraumatic  Stress  Disorder;
and  Alcohol Use Disorder, Mild.  (Government Exhibits 6 and  7.)
The consultant’s report stated the following:
PROGNOSIS
The  prognosis for [Applicant’s] full  recovery from  major depressive disorder
is guarded.  [Applicant]  reports  a  partial  improvement  after ongoing  mental
health  treatment  since  1996  and  intermittent compliance  with  regimen  and
medications. Given  the  chronicity of symptoms, the  course is expected  to
continue  to   be   chronic and   fluctuating   with   remissions   and   exacerbations
because  his symptoms  continue  to  cause  some  disruption  in  daily function.
The prognosis for [Applicant’s] full recovery from PTSD symptoms is fair to
good.  His symptoms remain persistent and  disruptive, however, he  has not
completed  a  course of evidence-based  trauma  therapy. Thus, it  is unknown
how his symptoms will respond to trauma-focused  treatment.
[Applicant]  is moderately motivated  to  resume  mental health  treatment.  He
verbalized  his pessimism  that his symptoms will  improve  significantly given
his  long   history  of  mental  health   treatment  to   include   psychotherapy  and
multiple  psychotropic medication  in the  past  that he  often  stopped  due  to
negative  side  effects that were  not tolerated.  He is primarily motivated  by
his chronic psychic pain,  but at the  same  time  remains pessimistic about
symptom   reduction   and   relief.   [Applicant]  has  no   financial,  logistical,
cultural,  or intellectual barriers. His pessimism  about  the  efficacy  of  mental
health   treatment  may   be   a   barrier  to   his   efforts  in   therapy   and   making
changes   as   well  as   compliance   with   psychotropic   medication.   There  is   a
high   potential   of   recurrence   of  major  depressive  symptoms  and   PTSD,
particularly as he is not engaged in  mental health treatment at his time.
The   prognosis  for  [Applicant’s]  alcohol  use   disorder  is  guarded.   He  has
experienced   three   episodes   of   drinking   in  the   last   12  months, has   a   long
history  of  maladaptive   use   of  alcohol   (binge   drinking),  and   has  been
recommended   for  alcohol  treatment  multiple   times  throughout  his  VA
treatment.  His most  recent referral of alcohol treatment per VA  records was
November 2019. He has no  history of substance  abuse  treatment.  He has
not demonstrated  a  recent pattern of abstinence. He drinks responsibly (at
home).  He  does  acknowledge   his  issues   of   alcohol  abuse.  His  use   is
expected   to   recur  during   major  depressive   episodes.  His  previous  binge
drinking   has   impaired   his  judgment   as   evidenced   by   alcohol  intoxication
during  a previous suicide attempt.
CONCLUSIONS
Based  upon  the  available information, [Applicant]  does  evidence  a  material
defect in stability due  to  his chronic mood  instability, chronic and  repeated
maladaptive  use  of  alcohol  without follow-through  on  recommended  alcohol
treatment,  minimal improvement  in his major depressive  disorder and  PTSD
diagnosis  since   1996,   intermittent  adherence   to   mental  health   treatment
regimen,  and   lifetime   and   recent  history  of  suicidal  ideation   and   multiple
suicide  attempts.  There  is a  potential security  concern that he  is not actively
addressing   his  co-occurring   mental  and   substance   use   disorders.  Of
particular concern  is the  recent suicidal ideation  and  lack of help-seeking  as
evidenced  by not resuming  mental health  treatment  since  November 2019
(last therapy session). Continued  mental health  treatment is recommended
as well as substance  abuse  treatment given  his recurrent maladaptive  use
of  alcohol.  It   is  unlikely  that  education   alone   will   adequately  address  his
problematic   use   of   alcohol   and   treatment   should   include   some   form   of
addictions therapy  and  exposure to  appropriate  community support groups.
It  appears that [Applicant]  finds much  meaning  and  purpose  in his work and
this seems to  motivate him and  [is] a  major factor that seems to  propel him
to   maintain   his   work  attendance,   efficiency,   and   performance.   He   was
reluctant  to  seek alcohol treatment  after being  referred  in  November 2019
because   of  concern  about   divulging   his  need   for  treatment  to   his  work
supervisor, but would likely be  highly motivated  to  seek both  mental health
and  alcohol treatment to  maintain his security clearance  and  continue  to  be
employed   at  [his  employer].  The   acknowledgment  of  the   nature  of  the
previous concerns and  positive  feedback from  his current  work supervisor
on   [Applicant’s]  work   performance   without   concerns   of  his  reliability,
stability,  and   trustworthiness  from   his  perspective   are  favorable   to   the
subject   [Applicant]   (Government  Exhibit  6   at   9-10.)  (All   emphasis  in
original.)
In  August  2021  Applicant  contacted  his  VA  psychologist.  She  wrote  a  progress
note based on his message and her response. (Attachment D.) He referenced the part of
Government Exhibit 6 where the consultant stated that Applicant’s condition may impair
his “judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.” Applicant then stated:
I wanted  to  use my medical record  to  show that his isn’t  the  case,  however
there are several areas in which  you  noted  that “insight and  judgment were
poor.”   I’m  certainly not   disagreeing  with  the  diagnosis. I’m  trying  to   figure
out  how  to   mitigate   this  for  the   administrative   judge   handling   my  case.  It
seems impossible  but if you  have any ideas, I’d appreciate it.
The psychologist spoke to Applicant and reported the following in Attachment D:
Veteran   [Applicant]   returned   writer’s  call   and   he   was  reached.   Discussed
concept insight/judgment that he  had  mentioned  in his email  –  let Veteran
know  that   most  [people]  who   are   acutely   symptomatic  (e.g.,   with   severe
depression,  PTSD)   will   have   poor  insight  and   judgment  but  that  this  is
changeable with  treatment.  Veteran  verbalized  understanding. Writer asked
if it would be  helpful for me  to  provide  documentation  stating  that Veteran
has been attending sessions and  motivated for care.
Applicant’s VA psychologist submitted a letter on his behalf dated August 23, 2021,
which stated:
This letter serves to  confirm  that [Applicant] has been  an  active  participant
in  mental  health   treatment  through   the   VA   .  .  .   Healthcare  System.  He
attended   a   group   treatment  which   emphasized   skills  designed   to   broadly
improve  emotional regulation  and  tolerance  of distress (February 2021  until
May 2021). [Applicant]  then  elected  to  enroll  in  individual treatment with  me
in order to  receive more  tailored, specific care  to  his mental health  problems
(May 2021  until August  2021). During  our time  working  together, [Applicant]
was always  responsive  to  treatment suggestions and  willing  to  implement
new  strategies.   It   is  my  belief  that  [Applicant]   is  absolutely  motivated   to
continue  mental health treatment. (Attachment E.)
VA records show, and Applicant’s testimony confirmed, that he was working with
a  VA  Primary  Care  Mental  Health  Integration  (PC-MHI)  team  beginning  in  December
2020 through August 2021 and May 2022 to at least July 2022. These meetings are on a
weekly or bi-weekly basis. The VA explained, “PC-MHI integrates mental health staff into
each PACT [Patient Aligned Care Team], allowing your care team to provide services for
depression, anxiety, PTSD, and substance use without needing a separate consult with
mental health providers outside of the PACT clinic area.” (Department of Veterans Affairs,
Patient  Care  Services:  Primary  Care  –  Mental  Health
Integration  (PC–MHI),
https://www.patientcare.va.gov/primarycare/PCMHI.asp  (last  updated  Sep.  19,  2022.)
(Applicant Exhibits C and D; Tr. 25, 33-35, 47-52.)
Applicant finds his current work very fulfilling. He testified that his current mental
health situation is good, stating, “To be honest, I think this is the best I have felt in a long
time.  Particularly,  this  year  has  been  really  good.  I‘m  not  sure  what  exactly  changed.
Yeah, it’s been good.” (Tr. 40-41, 47.)
In  conclusion  Applicant  stated, “I  don’t see  how I should be  punished. I am  seeking
–  and  continue  to  seek –  mental health  treatment.  I don’t think it’s a  punishable action. As
I mentioned  previously,  I would  never compromise national security if  I ever were  exposed
to  classified  information. It’s not even  a  thought in my head  to  do  any  of those  things.” (Tr.
54.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption)
The  Government alleged  in this paragraph  that Applicant is ineligible  for clearance
because  he  abuses intoxicants  to  excess. He  admitted  in part and  denied  in part SOR
2.a. He denied SOR 2.b and 2.c with  explanations.
Applicant has consumed alcohol on an occasional basis since 2006. Occasionally
he has used alcohol to excess in terms of binge drinking. In 2010 he would drink a bottle
of liquor every two weeks or so when he was depressed. Applicant testified that he last
drank what he considers a binge amount of alcohol in early 2022. (Tr. 27-29, 36.)
On at least two occasions Applicant consumed alcohol and took pills in aborted
suicide  attempts.  Binge  drinking  was  also  related  to  occasions  when  he  would  have
obsessional  thoughts  about  suicide.  These  incidents  continued  through  at  least  2014.
(Government Exhibit 9 at 45, 73, 78-79; Tr. 28-30.)
Applicant  admitted  that  in  2019  the  VA  recommended  that  he  attend  alcohol
treatment. Applicant declined the offer because of work-related concerns and concerns
related  to  a  previous  psychiatric  hospitalization.  He  admitted  that  treatment  may  have
been recommended to him in approximately 2016. He further testified that he does not
feel  he  has  an  alcohol  problem.  In  his  2016  questionnaire  he  stated,  “Treatment  was
suggested but never became required. Since I knew the situation was manageable, I did
not take action to seek treatment.” (Government Exhibit 2 at Section 24; Attachment G;
Tr. 38-40.)
Applicant told the DoD mental health consultant that he had three binge drinking
episodes  in  2019.  Based  on  his  evaluation  the  consultant  diagnosed  Applicant  with
Alcohol Use Disorder, Mild. (Government Exhibit 6 at 6-7, 9-10.)
Mitigation
Applicant  was elected as a member of his local school board  in 2020. His  term
expires in 2024, unless he decides to run for reelection. He finds this job very fulfilling. In
his  Answer  at  page  2  he  stated,  “Dealing  with  personnel,  financial,  and  educational
matters that affect parents, students, faculty, and the surrounding community requires a
high-degree of judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.” He further testified about serving
on the school board, “Something I can engage in with the community is always helpful. I
think it makes me feel a part of something more involved.” (Tr. 43-44.)
Applicant’s  department  manager  submitted   a   letter  on   his  behalf.   The   manager
has known Applicant since   2016,  when  Applicant began  work  there. The  writer  stated,
“Since  the  moment I met [Applicant],  he  has  always conducted  himself in a  professional
and courteous manner and  has been  a privilege to work with, he  has a strong work ethic
and   has  always  worked  well with   leadership  and   his colleagues.”  (Applicant Exhibit  A.)
(See   the   department   manager’s  interview   with   the   DoD  mental  health   consultant,
Government Exhibit 6  at 9.)
Applicant’s group  supervisor submitted  a  letter. He has also known  Applicant  for
six years. He stated:
[Applicant]   inspires  the   team   with   his  extraordinary  work  ethic  and
innovative  solutions  he  brings  to  our work. He is someone  who  projects a
real  sense   of  self-confidence   and   assurance,  without   coming   across  as
arrogant or dismissive  of others. [Applicant] is someone  I can  trust to  rise  to
challenges  and   deal  with   difficult  situations.  As  I  grew  into   my  current
position   as   the  supervisor of   the  group, [Applicant’s] behavior has stayed
consistent   throughout,   making   it   easy   to   earn  my   trust.  (Applicant  Exhibit
B.)
