Applicant  admitted  allegations  1.a.,  1.b.,  1.c.,  1.e.,  and  2.b.  He  denied
allegations 1.d., 2.a., and 3.a.  He failed to admit or deny allegation 4.a. set forth in the
SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  31  years  old  and  unmarried.  He  has  four  Master’s  degrees;
Business  Administration  and  Supply  Chain  Management;  Science;  Supply  Chain
Management; and Business Administration.  He is currently applying for a position as a
Linguist II with a defense contractor.  A security clearance in needed in connection with
this employment.
Foreign  Influence  –  Guideline B
Applicant’s  was  born  in  Alexandria,  Egypt  in  1989.  He  came  from  a  well-off
Egyptian  Coptic  orthodox  family.  He  grew  up  in  Egypt,  attended  and  completed  his
elementary school through university level education there, and then immigrated to the
United  States  in  June  2009,  seeking  better  employment  opportunities.  He  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 2015.  He is currently a dual citizen of Egypt and the United
States.
1.a., 1.c., and  1.d.   Applicant’s   mother  and   father  are  citizens  and   residents   of   Egypt.
They are  currently both  retired.   Prior to  his  retirement,  Applicant’s  father served  in the
Egyptian   Air   Force  from   1975   to   1979.  He  was  a   2nd   Lieutenant  and   a  sharp   shooter.
Applicant communicates with  his father by telephone, text,  and  social media on  a  daily
basis.  (Government  Exhibit 3.)  Applicant also  communicates  with  his mother in  Egypt
by  telephone, text,  and   social  media  two   or three   times a   week.    (Government  Exhibit
3.)    His  parents  reside   in  Egypt,   but  have   green   cards  and   come   to   the   U.S.  to   visit
about  every  six  months  or  so.     Applicant’s   father  owns  four  properties  in  Egypt.
Applicant estimates  that his father’s property  in Egypt is worth  about  $200,000  in  U.S.
dollars, rather than $450,000 that he previously told the investigator.  Upon his father’s
death, Applicant stands to inherit an interest in these properties in Egypt.
Applicant’s  Exhibit  C  is  a  letter  to  the  Administrative  Judge,  undated,  which
indicates  that  since  1992,  Applicant’s  father  has  known  the  Director  of  Business
Development  and  Chief  Executive  Saudi  Arabia  for  a  U.S.  Defense  contractor.  (This
individual also submitted a letter of recommendation for Applicant.)  From 1995 to 2007,
Applicant’s  father  was  employed  as  the  General  Manager  of  a  Construction  Company
based in Cairo, Egypt.  The company was owed by the sister of the Director of Business
Development and Chief Executive Saudi Arabia for a U.S. defense contractor.  It is not
clear  whether  this  information  was  disclosed  during  the  investigation  of  the  Applicant.
(See Government Exhibits 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.)
1.b.   Applicant’s   sister  is  a   citizen   of   Egypt  who   now  resides  in  the   U.S.    She   has
obtained   her   permanent  resident  green   card,   and   intends  to   apply  for  her  U.S.
citizenship  next year.  (Tr. p. 33.)
1.e.   Applicant maintains  two  bank  accounts  in  Egypt.   One of  the  accounts he opened
in February 2008, the  other he  opened  in  May 2019.  He  states  that each  account  has
about  $200   in   it.     Applicant  also  has   a   credit   card   that  he   maintains  in  Egypt  and   has
invested   $2,400   in  an   Egyptian   bank  in  order  to   maintain  it.     He  uses  the   credit  card
when  he goes there, and his parents make the payments on it for him.   (Tr. p. 43-44.)
Foreign Preference  –  Guideline C
2.a. and 2.b.  After  becoming  a  naturalized  citizen  of  the  U.S.  in  January  2015,
Applicant primarily resided in and worked in Egypt from about April 2015 to about May
2019.  During  this  period  he  also  voted  in  Egyptian  elections  in  2014  and  2018.
Applicant  stated  that  he  is  encouraged  by  the  Egyptian  Church  Bishops  to  vote  in  the
Egyptian election, especially for the current president because he helped to rebuild the
churches for free after they were burned down  in  the 2011  revolution  in Egypt.  While
living in Egypt, Applicant enrolled as a student for an on-line Master’s program  offered
by  a  U.S.  University.  He  traveled  back  to  the  U.S.  every  six  months  or  so,  when
needed,  in  order  to  finish  his  Master’s  degree.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was
discriminated against by the U.S. University because  they deleted 13 classes  from his
transcript that he believes he should have received credit for.  He was  also placed on
academic probation in 2015.  The complete details of this situation were not presented.
(See Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Guideline K –  Handling Protected Information
Since  coming to the  United States,  Applicant has worked various  jobs.  He has
found it difficult to find stable and satisfying employment that will sustain his lifestyle.  In
the  past,  on  several  occasions,  he  has  returned  to  Egypt  to  live  with  his  parents
because of his financial struggles  in the U.S.  From 2013 through 2014, while living in
the U.S., Applicant was financially supported by his parents in Egypt.  During periods of
unemployment, his parents in Egypt have financially supported him.  For several years,
they  have  sent  him  approximately  $1,500  monthly  to pay  his monthly living  expenses.
Applicant explained that on this occasion,  he  returned to Egypt because  he  wanted to
enjoy his family and church practices in Egypt.  He also stated, “In simple terms, if there
was  no  church  in  Egypt,  I  won’t  have  any  motive  to  visit  my  home  country.”
(See
Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
3.a.    In   March  2020,  while  employed   for  a   defense   contractor,  Applicant   was  fired   for
possessing   a   personal  device  and   taking   unauthorized   pictures  with   that  device  in  a
classified  area.   (Government Exhibit 4, and  Tr. pp. 59-70.)   In  August 2020, working  as
a   security   guard,  he   was  disciplined   for   starting   work  without  wearing   the   required
security officer uniform.
From  2011  to  the  present,  Applicant  has  worked  at  multiple  places  of
employment  in  the  U.S.  He  has  a  less  than  stellar  work  history.  On  a  number  of
occasions, he has either been released from his employment or fired for not fulfilling the
job requirements, or disciplined for misconduct of some sort.  In January 2011, working
as a store clerk, he was fired from his employment for a mistake he made working on
the register.  In May 2011, working as a business  development representative, he was
fired for not meeting the sales targets.  In December 2012, he was fired for sleeping on
the job.  (See Tr. pp. 71-73.)
Personal Conduct –  Guideline E
4.a.  (See discussion above  under 1.d.,  2.a.,  2.b., and 3.a.)
Mitigation
Letters  of  recommendation  from  various  individuals  who  know  the  Applicant
describe  his  favorable  character,  strong  work  ethic,  and  desire  to  obtain  employment.
(Applicant’s Exhibits E, E, F, G, H, I, and J.)
A  letter  from  a  retired  Lieutenant  Colonel,  who  is  currently  a  Director  of
International Business for a defense contractor, states that Applicant  would be a good
candidate for the U.S. military.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  Another letter also indicates that
Applicant’s skills would be  helpful as a  military leader.  (Applicant’s Exhibits E.)  Other
letters recognize Applicant’s good  character and  excellent  technical skills.  (Applicant’s
Exhibits F through J.)
A  letter  from  a  priest affiliated  with  Applicant’s  church back  in  Egypt  states  that
Applicant was born and raised in the Egyptian Orthodox  Church in Egypt.  Applicant is
said  to  be  knowledgeable  in  multiple  languages,  and  has  an  expertise  in  the  Arabic
language  different  dialects.  He  is  described  as  honest,  intelligent,  dependable,  highly
educated and hardworking.  (Applicant’s Exhibit O.)
In  assessing  the  heightened  risk  created  as  a  result  of  Applicant  holding  a
security  clearance,  the  Applicant’s  ties  to  a  potentially  hostile  country  are  important.
Under  the  particular  facts  of  this  case,  I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the
information  provided  concerning  the  Country  of  Egypt.   Egypt  is a  republic governed  by
an elected president and bicameral legislature.   Although  China,  Russia,  and Iran,  stand
out  as  three   of  the   most  capable  and   active   cyber  actors  tied   to   economic  espionage
and  the  potential theft  of U.S. trade  secrets and  proprietary information, countries with
closer  ties  to   the   United   States   have   conducted   cyber  espionage   and   other  forms  of
intelligence  collection  to  obtain U.S, technology, intellectual property, trade  secrets, and
proprietary   information.    In   2019,   a   black-market   arms   dealer,   an   Egyptian,  who   was
also a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen, was found  guilty in a  scheme  to  sell  and  use  surface-to-
air   missiles  and   was  sentenced   to   30   years  in  federal  prison.    In   2016,   an   Egyptian
procurement  agent  and   two   Egyptian   citizens  were   sentenced   after  pleading   guilty  to
violation   of  the   Arms  Export  Control  Act  in  connection   with   the   attempted   shipment  of
munitions  samples from  New York City to  Egypt.   In  2015, Mostfa  Ahmed  Awwad  was
sentenced   to   132   months  in  prison   for  attempted   espionage   relating   to   his  attempt  to
provide  schematics of  the  nuclear aircraft  carrier Gerald  R.  Ford  to  Egypt,  while  serving
as a Navy  Engineer.
In addition, the U.S. Department of State has issued a Level 4 travel advisory for
Egypt,  advising  U.S.  nationals  not  to  travel  to  Egypt  due  to  COVID  19  and  Terrorism.
Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning  and  have  targeted  diplomatic  facilities,
tourist locations, transportation hubs, markets and shopping malls, western businesses,
restaurants,  resorts  and  local  government  facilities.  Terrorists  have  also  targeted
religious  sites.  There  were  an  estimated  234  terrorists  attacks  across  the  country  in
2020 of which the vast majority were claimed by ISIS-SP.  There are significant human
rights  issues  that  include  unlawful or  arbitrary  killings,  torture,  and cases  of  cruel,  and
inhuman  and  degrading  treatment  or  punishment  by  the  government,  harsh  and  life-
threatening  prison  conditions,  arbitrary  detention  and  political  prisoners  or  detainees,
politically motivated reprisal against individual located outside of the country to name a
few.
