Applicant  is  a   57-year-old  married   man   with   two   adult  children   from   a   previous
marriage.  He  earned   a   bachelor’s  degree  in 2008, and  in 2010, he  earned  a  master’s
degree  in the  field  of  conflict management.  (Tr. 15) Applicant is a  veteran  of the  U.S.  Army.
He served  on  active  duty  from  1984  to  1989. After leaving  activity  duty, he  affiliated with
the  Army  Reserve  where he  served  from  1989  to  2019. He retired  honorably. (GE 1  at 20)
Applicant is a logistics management specialist. He has been working for his current
employer  since  January  2020.  (GE  1  at  13)  He  worked  with  his  previous  employer,  a
military command, performing similar work from 2015 to 2019. (GE 3)
In   January   2016,  Applicant  went  on   temporary   travel  duty   (TDY)   with   a   female
military  officer who  was superior to  him  on  the  unit’s organization  chart. (GE 3  at 3) It  was
not uncommon  for coworkers to  eat  dinner together while  on TDY. One  night,  while  at
dinner with  the  officer, Applicant told her that if  she  was not married, “[he] would be  all  over
[her],” and  that “what happens [on  TDY],  stays [on  TDY].” (GE 3  at 3) She  rebuffed  his
advances   and   did  not  immediately   report it  until some   time   later,   when   her supervisor
asked   her  to   accompany   Applicant  to   another  TDY   assignment.    (GE  4   at  3)  The
coworker’s supervisor then  reported  the  allegation  to  the  unit commander that same  day.
(GE 4  at 3) Subsequently, the  unit commander appointed  an  investigator to  conduct a
preliminary   inquiry   into   the   allegations.  During   the   investigation,  two   additional  female
coworkers alleged  that  Applicant  had made  unwelcome  sexual  advances  toward  them.  (GE
4  at 4) One  of  the  sexual advances occurred  between  2016  and  2017  via the  following  e-
mail exchange:
Applicant:  So  how many do  you  have  in  your stables?  LOL Very curious
about you.
Coworker: NUNYA [None of your business]
Applicant: So no room for anyone? Let me know when you have some free
space. (GE 3 at 4; GE 4 at 9))
Two  of  the  women  noted  that Applicant’s relationship with  them  became  tense,
confrontational, and intimidating after they rejected his advances. For example, one of the
women stated that on one occasion, he intentionally bumped into her while walking by her
in the hallway. (GE 3 at 5)
The investigator concluded that the allegations were substantiated, but did not rise
to  the  level  of  sexual  harassment.  Moreover,  he  recommended  that  Applicant  attend
trainings on sexual harassment, conflict and anger management skills, and professionalism
in the workplace and on travel. (GE 4 at 5)
The woman that Applicant propositioned while on TDY stated that her relationship
with him continued to deteriorate after the investigator released his report. (GE 4 at 5) Her
continued complaints prompted their supervisor, in July 2018, to initiate a hostile work
environment  inquiry  into  Applicant’s  behavior. (GE 4 at 5)  The investigator took sworn
statements from Applicant, the coworker that Applicant propositioned on TDY, three other
employees, and a contractor. All of the people interviewed stated that Applicant’s behavior
created a tense work environment. In addition, the contractor accused Applicant of flirting
with her and rubbing himself against the back of her chair while she was seated in it. As
with the other woman who had reported such behavior earlier, he became hostile when she
rebuffed his advances, at one point yelling at  her to  “get her ass”  up from her chair to
perform a task for him. (GE 4 at 6)
While  the  investigation  was  ongoing,  a  coworker,  who  was  not  involved  in  the
ongoing in-house harassment investigation, filed a complaint with the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission (EEO) against Applicant, alleging sexual harassment. (GE 4 at 8)
In the complaint, the employee stated that Applicant remarked on her looks, rubbed her
shoulders on one occasion, and frequently asked her out. (GE 4 at 9)
The EEO complaint prompted the unit commander, in November 2018, to expand
the investigation. (GE 4 at 8) Per the expanded investigation, the investigator asked all of
the command’s employees and  contractors if  they had  seen  or experienced  workplace
sexual harassment from Applicant. (GE 4 at 9) In response, several more women came
forward to complain of sexual advances or inappropriate comments, including a woman
who was the command’s special victim counsel on sexual harassment, and several women
in subordinate positions (GE 3 at 8; GE 4 at 10) All of them prepared sworn statements. In
addition  to  the  women  who  alleged  sexual harassment,  a coworker who witnessed an
episode of inappropriate conduct provided a statement. (GE 4 at 11)
On  November  14,  2018,  Applicant  issued  a  sworn  statement,  as  part  of  the
expanded  investigation.  (GE  at  11)  During  the  ISCR  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  was
unaware that he had been under investigation for sexual harassment until he received a
notice of termination in June 2019. (Tr. 19)
During the  November 2018  investigation,  Applicant  denied  all of  the allegations
except the allegation based on the email exchange, as set forth above. He characterized
the email conversation as a continuation of harmless “banter” that the coworker initiated.
(Tr. 53) He stated that his superiors never wanted him in his position from the day he
started  because  he  “wouldn’t  conform  to  what they  wanted  [him] to  do,”  and that their
allegations against him were part of a conspiracy to replace him with someone whom they
desired. (GE 2 at 7; Tr. 41) As for the women in subordinate grade levels, he contended
that they resented him because he was a stern, sometimes abrasive taskmaster who was
holding them accountable. (GE 3 at 11, 17)
In December 2018, the investigator issued a memorandum entitled “Supplemental
Findings and Recommendations.”  (GE 4 at 11) He found  that Applicant’s denial of  the
allegations  was  “dramatically”  outweighed  by  the  cumulative,  contrary  testimony,  and
“entirely unconvincing.” (GE 4 at 11) The investigator concluded that Applicant’s conduct
created a hostile work environment, and recommended that he be suspended for seven
days. (GE 4 at 11)
In  January  2019,  the  unit  commander  issued  a  memorandum  regarding  the
investigator’s conclusion. (GE 4 at 11) He approved the findings, but concluded that they
merited termination, rather than suspension. (GE 4 at 12) In reaching this conclusion, he
noted that Applicant’s “failure to accept even the smallest responsibility for  [his] actions
was troubling,” that rehabilitation “does not appear viable,” and that Applicant “[could] not
be  trusted  to  be  alone  with  subordinate  personnel.”  (GE  3  at  11)  Consequently,  the
commander  issued  a  notice  of  decision  of  proposed  removal.  (GE  4  at  15)  Applicant
presented an oral reply to the proposal, together with several character reference letters.
(GE 4 at 16) In October 2019, the command executive officer sustained the proposed
removal.  In  doing  so,  he  found  that  Applicant’s  “misconduct  eroded  the  chain  of
command’s trust and  confidence,”  and  that his “lack of  ownership  over his actions . . .
combined  with  the  pervasiveness  of  the  misbehavior  are  clear  indicators  of  a  lack  of
rehabilitation potential.” (GE 3 at 10) Moreover, he concluded that Applicant’s credibility
was degraded by numerous inconsistencies in his reply. (GE 3 at 11) In October 2019, the
commander issued a decision letter officially removing Applicant from the job.
Applicant appealed the decision to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB)
After considering  Applicant’s  testimony and  the  sworn statements of  his accusers,  the
MSPB, in July 2020, affirmed the decision. In doing so, the judge noted four times in the
decision that Applicant was not credible. (GE 4 at 18-20, 37)
At  the  MSPB  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  his conduct,  at  worst,  was  merely
flirtatious,  and  that  flirting  was  human  nature.  (GE  4  at  26)  Between  2016  and  2019,
Applicant completed multiple trainings on sexual harassment in the workplace. (GE 4 at 10)
At  the  ISCR  hearing,  Applicant  reiterated  the  positions  he  took  during the  work
investigation and the MSPB hearing. Also, he testified that he was a good, well-respected
employee at the job from which he was terminated in 2019, and provided records, including
multiple character references and good annual evaluations. (AE A – AE Q)
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  emphasizing
