Applicant is a 34-year-old new employee of a defense contractor. His start date
was  scheduled  to be  in  January 2023. He  worked for a different  defense  contractor in
2022. He served on active duty in the U.S. military from 2012  until he was discharged
with an under other than honorable conditions discharge in 2021. He seeks to retain a
security clearance, which he has held since his time in the military. He has a bachelor’s
degree  earned  in  2010,  and  he  has  taken  graduate  courses  in  pursuit  of  a  master’s
degree.  He  is  married  with  two  children.  (Transcript  (Tr.)  at  7-8,  22-28;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 4, 5; AE G)
Applicant deployed to Afghanistan for about nine months in 2016 through 2017.
He  was  stationed  in  a  foreign  country  from  2017  until  his  discharge.  From  that  duty
station, he deployed to another foreign country in 2018. The multiple deployments and
overseas tour led to marital stress. In January to February 2019, he was on temporary
duty  at  a  military  installation  in  State  A  in  the  United  States.  While  there,  he  met  an
individual  online  who  identified  “herself”  on  multiple  occasions  as  a  13-year-old  girl.  It
was  actually  a  police  officer  from  State  A  running  a  sting  operation  to  catch  potential
child predators. (I will refer to the individual with feminine pronouns even though it was
actually  a  male.)  Applicant  and  the  individual  engaged  in  a  series  of  graphic  sexual
messages. (Tr. at 27-33, 38-40, 55-57, 60-62, 68-70; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE
1, 5; AE A, H)
Applicant  returned  to  his  foreign  duty  station.  He  continued  to  have  graphic
sexual  communications  with  the  individual  who  identified  herself  as  a  13-year-old  girl.
He  sent  a  video  of  himself  masturbating  and  two  photographs  of  his  penis.  He
requested that she send him sexually explicit images of herself, which, if she was truly
an  underage  girl,  would  have  been  child  pornography  under  18  U.S.C.  §§  2252  and
2256. He stated that he wanted to perform sexual acts on her, and he planned to travel
to State A to do so. (Tr. at 39-42; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5; AE H)
A  military  criminal  investigation  was  initiated  in  April  2019  based  upon  a  report
from  State  A  law  enforcement.  Applicant  waived  his  right  to  remain  silent  and  was
interviewed. He admitted that he exchanged sexual messages with a female who lived
in State A, and that he was aware that she was 13 to 15 years old. He explained that he
did not believe everything on the Internet, “nothing’s real,” and that it would be weird for
a 13-year-old to be on the Internet actively participating in their interactions like she did.
He  admitted  that  they discussed  things  that  he  would  like  to  do  to  her,  but  he  had  no
intention of actually doing anything. He also admitted that he sent her a video of himself
in which he was naked. (Tr. at 45; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5; AE H)
A forensic examination was conducted of Applicant’s cell phone. It was reported
that  “[a]n  image  of  suspected  child  pornography  was  located,  but  appeared  to  be
associated  with  malicious  software,  as  no  additional  indications  were  found  [that]  the
user intentionally searched for, or possessed child pornography.” (GE 5; AE F)
Applicant  was  charged  in  November  2020  with  multiple  offenses  under  the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), including three specifications of attempting to
commit  lewd  acts  on  a  child  under  the  age  of  16;  soliciting  the  detective  to  send  him
images  of  child  pornography;  and  possessing  child  pornography.  The  charges  were
referred to a general court-martial in February 2021. (Tr. at 43; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 5; AE F)
Applicant requested an under other than honorable conditions discharge in lieu of
trial by  court-martial.  In  his request,  he  admitted  that  he  was  “guilty  of  one  or more  of
the specifications against [him] or of a lesser-included offense contained therein which
also  authorizes  the  imposition  of  a  bad  conduct  discharge  or dishonorable discharge.”
The request was approved, and he was discharged in April 2021. (Tr. at 48-49, 66-67;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5)
Applicant responded to interrogatories in February 2022. He answered  “True” to
the  following  statement,  “Between  February  and  April  2019  you  admitted  you
exchanged messages, photos and a video (all sexual in nature) with an individual whom
you believed to be a female between the age of 13 and 15 years old residing in [State
A].” He added, “All information above is correct. I did exchange photos and video with a
person I thought to be a female.” (GE 5)
Applicant testified that he went on the Internet for adult companionship, and that
he was not looking for an underage girl. He stated that people lie about their age on the
Internet, as he did, and he assumed that the “girl” was lying. He asserted that he had no
intention  of  meeting  her.  He  denied  ever  possessing  child  pornography.  (Tr.  at  37-44,
53, 62, 66-69)
Applicant  expressed  remorse  for his conduct. His wife  is aware  of his  actions, the
charges  against  him, and  his discharge. Many of  his friends  are  aware  of  the  charges.
The  defense  company  that previously  hired  him  and  the  company   for which  he  was to
start  work   in   January  2023   are   unaware   that  he   was   discharged   with   an   under  other
than   honorable   discharge. Applicant   stated   that   he   was   never asked  by his employers
about  his  discharge,  and   he   believes  they   would  have   hired   him   anyway.   He   sought
counseling from a  chaplain  while  he  was  still on active  duty.  He has since had  additional
therapy,  which   is  ongoing.   His  therapist  wrote   that  it   was  evident  that  Applicant  “was
remorseful for the  past  incident and  has  been  making  great effort  to  move  forward  with
improving   his  marriage   and   family  life.”    Applicant   considers   himself  completely
rehabilitated,  and  he  assured  that similar conduct would never recur. (Tr. at 46-47, 49-
55, 62-65, 67-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE K)
Applicant  was  evaluated  at  his  own  expense  in  July  2022  by  a  licensed
psychologist  with  extensive  experience  in  forensic  and  clinical  psychology.  A  report of
the evaluation was issued in August 2022. The psychologist determined that Applicant
did not have a mental health condition. He concluded that Applicant’s “illegal actions are
not, in fact, a sign of moral turpitude or any aberrant sexual impulses.” He accepted that
Applicant  was  not  seeking  an  underage  partner  when  he  entered  the  chat  room,  and
that Applicant presumed the person was lying about her age. (Tr. at 71-86; AE J, K) The
psychologist concluded:
[Applicant’s]  encounter  with  this purported  young  teenager was impulsive,
rather than  planned.  [Applicant]  has since  experienced  the  consequences
of  his  behavior.  To   a   great   degree   of   psychological   certainty,   I  have
concluded   that  [Applicant]   is rehabilitated   and   will   never again  engage   in
such   foolish   behavior.  [Applicant’s]   behavior  was  not   part  of  any
compulsion.   There  is  no   known  reason   to   expect   that  such   behavior  is
something   that  [Applicant]   is  motivated   to   repeat  or  has  any  particular
interest in doing.
In   sum,  I  have   concluded   that  [Applicant]   has  learned   from   his  mistake,
has  benefitted   from   the   consequences   he   experienced   and   from   the
psychotherapy  that   he   received,   and   that   this  behavior   will   not  recur.   I
consider  [Applicant]   to   have   been   rehabilitated   and   to   be   currently  fit  to
hold a  security clearance.  (AE  I)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  military
service,  job  performance,  and  moral  character.  He  was  described  as  “an  exemplary
Soldier.”  He
leadership,  dedication,  work  ethic,  honesty,
trustworthiness,  professionalism,  humility,  reliability,  judgment,  proficiency,  generosity,
compassion,  empathy,  maturity,  and  integrity.  He  received  numerous  medals  and
commendations while he was on active duty and while working for a defense contractor.
(GE 5; AE A-E)
is  praised
for  his
