Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  Labor  Relations  Staff  employee  with  a  defense
contractor.  She  has  worked  for  the  company  since  2000.  She  is  single.  Applicant  has
received  a  bachelor  of  arts  degree  and  a  master’s  degree.  She  is  seeking  to  retain  a
security  clearance granted in approximately 2006  in connection with  her work with the
DoD. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 25; Applicant Exhibit E.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  both  allegations  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
Applicant admitted that she used marijuana less than ten times in the 1990s. That
use is not alleged in the SOR and is in the distant past. This use has no current security
significance. (Applicant Exhibit M; Tr. 101-102.)
Applicant stated that she was unintentionally exposed to marijuana in 2014 and
2015. She denies intentionally using it during the period of her employment. (Tr. 62-63.)
In  2014  she  attended  an  outdoor  concert  with  friends.  During  this  concert
neighboring attendees shared food such as brownies and cookies. Applicant ate several
of these items. After she consumed them one of the neighbors told her that the  baked
goods contained marijuana. Applicant testified that she did not know that before she ate
them, felt no affects from eating the food, and has no knowledge as to whether the person
was telling the truth. (Tr. 63-66, 107-108.)
The next time Applicant was exposed to marijuana was about a year later, in 2015,
while  on  vacation  with  several  other  people.  Some  of  these  people  were  friends  of
Applicant, others were friends of her friends. Several of them, including Applicant, used
vape pens. Applicant’s used tobacco in hers. On one occasion Applicant picked up the
wrong vape pen by accident. She took a puff and found that it had a strange flavor. She
enquired and was told by the owner, a friend of a friend, that it contained marijuana. Once
again, Applicant did not feel any affects, and has no knowledge as to whether the person
was telling the truth. (Tr. 66-71.)
Subsequent to these  two  incidents  Applicant is much more careful about taking
food from  strangers in concert-like  situations.  In addition,  she has stopped using  vape
pens altogether. (Tr. 66, 69, 71-73.)
Applicant has repeatedly stated that these were her last “uses” of marijuana and
that she has no intent of using marijuana in the future. Even though Applicant does not
believe  she  has  or  had  a  drug  problem,  she  has  taken  several  steps  to  assure  the
Government  that  she  is  being  proactive  in  preventing  a  future  problem.  Applicant  has
taken a course in drug and alcohol awareness, and also one in marijuana education. She
has taken several negative drug tests. (Applicant Exhibits J, L, N, and O; Tr. 72, 74.)
Applicant received an evaluation dated December 20, 2021, from a psychologist.
The  report  covered  the  area  of  drug  abuse.  (Applicant  Exhibit  M.)  He  conducted  a
thorough examination of Applicant that included an interview, various psychological tests,
and review of relevant documentation. The psychologist opined, “[Applicant] does not now
nor has she ever met criteria for a diagnosable substance-related  disorder.”  (Applicant
Exhibit M at 6; Tr. 102-106.)
Applicant has also submitted a signed statement of intent “not to use or be involved
with  illegal drugs in  the  future.” The  statement also declared that Applicant understood
that  such  involvement  “may  be  grounds  for  revocation  or  denial  of  national  security
eligibility.” (Applicant Exhibit K.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because she has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or
unreliability.  Applicant  admitted  both  the  allegations  under  this  paragraph  with
explanations.
2.a.   Applicant   filled   out  an   e-QIP   in  September   2015.  (Government   Exhibit  2.)
Section 23 of the  questionnaire  asked  Applicant about her drug  use  history. Specifically,
Applicant was asked  whether she   had  used  controlled  substances   during  the  previous
seven  years.  Applicant  stated,  “No.” This  was  an  incorrect  answer to  a  relevant question
about Applicant’s drug  use history.
Applicant stated that her reason for not disclosing the two incidents of marijuana
use in 2014 and 2015 was because she thought they were too minor and inconsequential
to  disclose.  She  specifically  stated  that  she  did  not  have  an  intent  to  deceive  the
Government about  this  accidental use,  that it  was simply a  mistake  on  her part.  (Tr. 75-
76, 89, 115-116.)
Applicant began working closely with Mr. C, an investigator for her employer, in
about 2013. Mr. C testified that he communicates with Applicant on almost a daily basis.
When Applicant began preparing to fill out her 2020 questionnaire, she asked Mr. C for
his advice in filling out the form. He advised her to not make her own decisions as to what
the Government felt was relevant or important. Rather, he advised her to be proactive in
telling the Government about incidents she did not think were important. (Tr. 24-36, 92.)
Applicant  filled  out  that  second  questionnaire  in  October  2020.  (Government
Exhibit 1.) In answering the same question in Section 23 about her drug use over the past
seven  years  Applicant  stated,  “Yes.”  This  was  based  on  the  advice  of  Mr.  C  to  be
completely  forthcoming  no  matter  how  minor  she  believed  the  information  to  be.  She
further indicated that the usage extended from 2014 to 2016, which was in error. Applicant
went on to explain, “While out at events (concerts, celebrations) I have smoked and eaten
edibles  that  contained  marijuana  that  I  did  not  know/  know  contained  marijuana.”  She
further stated, ”‘I’m estimating the times at less than 10 as I don’t know how many times
for an exact number.” Applicant stated that the number ten was used to include all of the
baked goods she ate at the 2014 concert, in an attempt to be completely forthcoming.
This was a more accurate statement of her use, though somewhat confusing. (Tr. 76-79,
89, 94-98.)
A Report of Investigation (ROI) was prepared by a government investigator based
on his notes from an interview with Applicant. The ROI stated, “From 1/14 to 1/16, Subject
[Applicant]  smoked  and  ate  marijuana  at  concerts,  parties,  someone’s  house,  and  at
camping  trips  for  a  total  of  10  times.”  Applicant  vehemently  disagreed  with  the
investigator’s version of the interview. (Government Exhibit 5; Tr. 80-88, 109-112.)
Based on the advice of Mr. C, Applicant also revealed a 1995 arrest for petty theft
under Section 22 of the same questionnaire. This arrest would not have been required
under the terms of the question, but Applicant put it down in an attempt to be completely
forthcoming.
Applicant stated that she has learned  to  “pay attention  to  what’s written  on  your
SF-86.” (Tr. 116-117.)
2.b.   The   Government  alleges in  this  subparagraph   that the  Applicant’s drug  use
history, as set forth  under Paragraph 1, above, is also cognizable under Guideline E.
Mitigation
A good friend of Applicant’s testified on her behalf. This person, Ms. M, is a Director
of  Human  Resources  for  a  division  of  Applicant’s  defense  employer.  The  witness  has
human resources responsibility for 8,000 personnel in her division. She has a Top-Secret
clearance  and  is  knowledgeable  about  security  responsibilities.  She  is  aware  of  the
allegations in this case. The witness has known Applicant since elementary school and
is the person who recruited Applicant for the company. The witness believes Applicant to
be  completely  honest,  trustworthy,  and  of  a  stellar  character.  The  witness  gave  the
Applicant her highest recommendation. (Tr. 37-58.)
The witness Mr. C also submitted a statement on Applicant’s behalf, in addition to
his  testimony.  He  has  known  Applicant  for  ten  years  in  a  professional  capacity  as  an
investigator. Mr., C was apprised of the allegations in this case.  He stated, “[Applicant]
has a solid understanding and appreciation for classified work activities at [her employer],
and  has  demonstrated  her  commitment  to  protecting  National  Security  through  her
positive work ethic and actions.” He also testified that she is honest with a high degree of
integrity. (Applicant Exhibit G at 10-12; Tr. 24-36.)
Additional letters of recommendation were submitted by coworkers and personal
friends. Each of them has known Applicant for over ten years. All of them have knowledge
of the allegations in this case. They all state that Applicant is trustworthy and believable.
They find her to be a hard-working person of integrity and recommend her for a position
of trust. (Applicant Exhibit G at pages 1-9, 13-15.)
Applicant  is  viewed  as  a  solid  performer  by  her  employer.  She  has  repeatedly
received recognition for her job performance. (Applicant Exhibits D, F, and P.)
