Applicant  is  32  years  old.  She  has  never  been  married  and  does  not  have  any
children. She attended college between 2016 and 2018, but she did not  earn a college
degree. Since November 2019, she has worked for a government contractor employer as
a fire inspection coordinator. Her employer is sponsoring her for a Department of Defense
(DOD)  security  clearance  so  she  can  perform  specific  job  duties.  This  is  her  first
application for security clearance eligibility. (Item 2)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  is  responsible  for  ten  accounts  placed  into
collections,  charged  off,  or  delinquent  in  the  total  amount  of  $23,094.  In  her  Answer,
Applicant  admitted  one  allegation  (SOR  ¶  1.g),  and  she  denied  the  remaining  nine
allegations, indicating these accounts had either been paid or were unknown to her. (SOR
¶¶  1.a  through  1.f,  and  1.h  through  1.j.)  She  failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to
support her claims. The credit reports in the record support the SOR allegations. (Item 1;
Item 2; Item 4; Item 5)
SOR ¶¶  1.a,  1.b, 1.d, and  1.e  allege  four student  loans  that were referred  to  the
U.S.  Department  of  Education   for  collection   in  the   total  amount  of   $16,422.   Applicant
admitted   during   her  June   2020   background   interview   that   these   student   loans  were
obtained  under her name  so  she  could  attend  college. Due  to  her overextended  finances,
she  made  a  last  payment on  these  loans in January  2019.  She  denied  these  student  loans
in her Answer  as “unknown,”  and  she  did not provide  supporting  documentation  or  explain
why   she   did  not  recognize   these   student   loans.  These   four  student  loan   remain
unresolved. (Item 1, Item 3, Item  4; Item 5)
SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.f,  and  1.j  allege  three  delinquent  medical  accounts  in  the  total
amount of  $5,489. Applicant admitted during her  June 2020  background  interview that
these medical accounts developed from an emergency medical service she received for
a severe asthma attack on an unreported date. She denied these medical debts in her
Answer, and she did not provide supporting documentation to show the status of these
accounts. These debts remain unresolved. (Item 1, Item 3, Item 4; Item 5)
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges an account placed for collection for $771. Applicant admitted
during  her  June  2020  background  interview  that  this  debt  was  due  to  a  missed  car
payment.  She  admitted  this  debt  in  her  Answer.  She  did  not  provide  supporting
documentation to show the status of this account. This debt remains unresolved. (Item 1,
Item 3, Item 4; Item 5)
SOR ¶ 1.h alleges a delinquent account in the amount of $289 placed for collection
by  an  insurance  company.  Applicant  denied  this  debt  in  her  Answer,  and  she  did  not
provide  any  supporting  documentation  to  show  that  she  is  not  responsible  for  this
account. This debt remains unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  cable/communications
utility company for $123. Applicant denied this debt in her Answer, and she did not provide
any supporting documentation to show that she is not responsible for this account. This
debt remains unresolved.
Applicant disclosed during her June 2020 background interview that her financial
problems  developed  due  to  earning  low  wages.  She  also  told  the  DOD  authorized
investigator that she was budgeting better, keeping track of her bills, and she intended to
contact  her  creditors.  She  planned  to  dispute  the  charges  or  settle  the  delinquent
accounts for less than the full balance. (Item 3)
Department Counsel made it clear in the Government’s brief that Applicant had not
provided any evidentiary documentation to show what steps she had taken to resolve her
significant  delinquent  debt.  Applicant  chose  not  to  respond  or  submit  documentation
during  her  30-day  period  following  the  receipt  of  the  Government’s  file  of  relevant
information.
