In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b,
and 1.c, with explanations. Included with his answer were two letters of recommendation,
and  documents  demonstrating  that  he  satisfied  his  court-ordered  obligations.  (AE  at  4
through AE at 8.) His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is 35 years old. He has never married, and he does not have children.
He  holds  two  bachelor’s  degrees,  one  in  German  (2011)  and  the  other  in  Electrical
Engineering (2014). He worked for a defense contractor from 2014 to 2019. As part of his
employment, he was granted a security clearance in 2016. He has been employed by his
sponsor since February 2019 as a senior field service engineer.
In March 2013, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence (DUI) and
refusal to submit to a chemical test. In his PSI in 2015, Applicant reports he consumed
three to four beers over two hours  at a local restaurant. (ltem 6 at 6.) During his drive
home he was pulled over, failed the field sobriety tests, and was arrested for DUI. He pled
guilty to the lesser charge of Refusal to Submit to a Chemical Test. In his answer he made
no excuses for his actions and stated he “willingly put [himself] in a position to be a danger
to those around me.” (Item 2 at 2.) He was ordered to pay fines and complete 10 hours
of community service.
In August 2018, Applicant was arrested for DUI.  He explained that he had been
drinking at a friend's house and consumed five  to  six beers over a seven-hour period.
(Item 5 at 3.) He offered that he had been limiting myself to approximately one beer per
hour, based a guideline he learned after his 2013 DUI and then “waited a little under an
hour after finishing” his last beer before he left. He states he struck a parked vehicle while
attempting to pull up a navigation application while driving. The police responded to the
accident,  and  he  was  administered  a  field  sobriety  test,  which  he  passed.  The  police
detected  the  odor  of  alcohol  on  him,  and  he  was  arrested  on  suspicion  of  DUI.  A
breathalyzer was administered at the police station and the test generated a blood alcohol
level of 0.12 or 0.13. (Item 5 at 3.) He was charged with Illegal Operation of a Moving
Vehicle While Under the Influence of Alcohol and Failure to Drive Upon Right. He reported
the DUI arrest to his security officer. He successfully completed the court-ordered alcohol
education classes and the ignition interlock requirement without issue. (AE at 6 and AE
at 7.) With the successful completion of the alcohol education course, the charges were
dismissed in May 2020. (AE at 8.)
In Applicant’s answer, he stated he no longer drinks anything at all if he is driving.
He acknowledges he still consumes alcohol, “but it is nothing like what” it was in the past.
(Item 2 at 2.) He reiterates that under no circumstances does he operate motor vehicles
if he has been drinking. (Item 2 at 2.) He submitted character references to attest to his
professionalism, integrity, and attention to detail, along with an awareness and respect
for security. (AE at 5 and AE at 4.)
