Applicant is 35 years old and divorced with two children. She has a high school
diploma. Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor since January 2020. (Item
2 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Applicant Exhibit A.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline with explanations.
financially  overextended  and
is
1.a.   Applicant and her husband filed for relief under Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy
Code in 2013. They had approximately $89,235 in unsecured debt, along with  secured
debt in  the  amount of $91,263.  Their unsecured  debts  were discharged  in  June 2014.
(Item 4.)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  16  debts  that  were  charged-off,  or  in
collection,  in  the  total  amount  of  approximately  $38,709.  (SOR  1.b  through  1.q.)  The
existence  and  amount  of  these  debts  is  supported  by  her  admissions  to  all  SOR
allegations in her Answer. The debts are also confirmed by credit reports submitted by
the Government and Applicant dated June 30, 2020; August 18, 2021; and May 9, 2022.
(Items 5, and 6; Attachment to Answer.) The existence of the debts is also supported by
Applicant’s answers on Section 26 of her e-QIP (Item 2) and during an interview with an
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management on July 21, 2020. (Item 3.)
Applicant stated that most of her debt issues began when she was married to her
now ex-husband.  He had a  prescription  drug  problem and also drank  to excess.  They
both  suffered  from  periods  of  unemployment  or  underemployment  for  several  years.
Applicant indicated in her Answer and Statement that most of the delinquent debt would
fall off of her credit report due to age. She also stated in her Answer and Statement that
she is now financially stable but did not indicate an ability or desire to pay any of her past-
due debts.
The status of the debts is as follows:
1.b. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a wireless telephone company in
the  amount  of  $2,239.  Applicant  stated  in  her  June  2020  e-QIP  about  this  debt, “Just
started job and will be making payments on all my debts so I can raise my score and get
out of debt.” (Item 2 at Section 26.) In her Answer to the SOR Applicant did not indicate
that she had paid or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.c.  Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a medical debt in the
amount of $1,173. Applicant stated in her June 2020 e-QIP about this debt, “Just started
job and will be making payments on all my debts so I can raise my score and get out of
debt.” (Item  2  at  Section  26.) In  her Answer to the SOR Applicant stated that this debt
was related to medical care obtained for her son in approximately 2015 that she thought
would be covered by insurance. She further stated that the debt is not listed on her most
recent credit report. (Attachment to Answer.) Applicant did not indicate that she had paid
or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.d. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a collection agency for a charged-
off debt in the amount of $914. Applicant stated in her June 2020 e-QIP about this debt,
“Just  started  job and will be  making  payments on all my debts so I can  raise  my score
and get out of debt.” (Item 2  at Section  26.) The most recent credit report continues to
show  this  as  a  past-due  debt.  (Attachment  to  Answer.)  In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR
Applicant stated that she has been working with this particular collection agency to rebuild
her credit, but did not specify how that was happening. Applicant did not indicate in her
Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.e. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due debt in the
amount of $696. In her Answer to the SOR Applicant stated, “I have tried to dispute this
on my credit report because I’m not sure what it was for but it was denied. I think it has
switched  creditors and  the  original creditor is not listed  on  my credit report.”  The most
recent  credit  report  shows  the  dispute  and  that  it  was  resolved  against  Applicant.
(Attachment to Answer.) Applicant  did  not  indicate in her Answer that  she had paid or
made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.f.  Applicant  admitted  that  she  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  past-due  debt
involving unreturned satellite television equipment in the amount of $607. In her Answer
to the SOR Applicant stated that she has not reached out to this creditor to make payment
arrangements.  Applicant  did  not  indicate  in  her  Answer  that  she  had  paid  or  made
arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.g. Applicant admitted that she is indebted  to a creditor for a past-due medical
debt in the amount of $604. In her Answer to the SOR Applicant stated, “This is from 2017
and possibly from one of my children’s medical bills we were unable to pay at the time.”
Applicant did not indicate in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to pay
this debt. It is not resolved.
1.h.  Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due utility debt
in the amount of $389. In her e-QIP she stated, “Moved and lost job so couldn’t pay.” She
also stated, “Just started job and will be making payments on all my debts so I can raise
my score and  get out of debt.” (Item  2  at Section  26.)  Applicant did not indicate in her
Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.i. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due telephone
debt in the amount of $365. In her e-QIP  she  stated, “Moved  and was on  contract and
didn’t need it and didn’t’ have job to pay.” She also stated, “Just started job and will be
making payments on all my debts so I can raise my score and get out of debt.” (Item 2 at
Section 26.) In her Answer Applicant stated that this debt had fallen off her most recent
credit report. She did not indicate in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements
to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.j. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due medical debt
in the amount of $314. In her Answer to the SOR Applicant stated, “This was actually for
my ex-husband because we were married I have to take responsibility as the guarantor.”
Applicant did not indicate in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to pay
this debt. It is not resolved.
1.k. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due utility debt
in the amount of $307. In her e-QIP she stated, “Moved and didn’t pay bill because no
job.” She also stated, “Just started job and will be making payments on all my debts so I
can raise my score and get out of debt.” (Item 2 at Section 26.) Applicant did not indicate
in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.l. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due medical debt
in  the  amount of $206.  She  stated  in her e-QIP,  “Didn’t  have  money  and  also  thought
insurance  was  covering  bills.”  She  also  stated,  “Just  started  job  and  will  be  making
payments on all my debts so I can raise my score and get out of debt.” (Item 2 at Section
26.) Applicant did not indicate in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements to
pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.m. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due utility debt
in the amount of $192. In her e-QIP Applicant stated that this debt might be a duplicate
of 1.k. No further information was provided. She also stated, “Just started job and will be
making payments on all my debts so I can raise my score and get out of debt.” (Item 2 at
Section  26.)  Applicant  did  not  indicate  in  her  Answer  that  she  had  paid  or  made
arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.n. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due cable bill
for $87. In her Answer Applicant stated that this debt had fallen off her credit report due
to age. Applicant did not indicate in her Answer that she had paid or made arrangements
to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.o. Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a creditor for a past-due medical
debt in the amount of $66. She stated in her Answer that this was a medical bill for her
ex-husband.  Applicant  did  not  indicate  in  her  Answer  that  she  had  paid  or  made
arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
1.p.  Applicant  admitted   that  she   is  indebted   to   a   bank  for  a   repossessed
automobile  account  in  the  amount  of  $20,902. She  stated  in  her Answer, “This was a  joint
account  and   charged   off.   Once   again   my  ex-husband   was  unemployed   and   we  were
unable to  afford our vehicle.” Applicant did not indicate  in  her Answer that she  had  paid
or made  arrangements to pay this debt.  It is not resolved.
1.q  Applicant admitted that she is indebted to a lender for a second repossessed
automobile account in the amount of $9,648. Applicant did not indicate in her Answer that
she had paid or made arrangements to pay this debt. It is not resolved.
Applicant elected not to submit a budget or any information as to her salary or the
status of her current debts. Applicant also elected not to submit any information about her
work performance or ability to safeguard classified information. I am unable to make a
credibility assessment as Applicant elected not to have a hearing.
