Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He received a high
school diploma in 2006 and has taken some undergraduate courses. He was married in
2013 and divorced in December 2019. He has a one-year-old child. He served on active
duty  with  the  U.S.  Army  from  2009  until  May  2018  and  received  a  general  discharge
under honorable conditions. (Items 2-5; Form Response)
On an unspecified date, Applicant paid another individual to pose as Applicant to
take  an  information  technology  certification  exam  on  his  behalf  because  he  did  not
believe that he could pass it if he took the certification exam himself. The individual that
Applicant hired passed the certification exam, and Applicant was awarded the Security+
through COMPTIA certification as a result of his dishonest actions. This certification was
either  required  for  Applicant’s  employment  or  would  enhance  his  standing  with  his
employer. In April 2021, Applicant reported this conduct to his employer, apologized for
his behavior, and resigned from his employment. It is unclear from the record whether
he  reported  this  conduct  prior  to  being  confronted  with  it.  (Items  1,  2,  6;  Response  to
FORM).
In  July  2017,  Applicant  was  driving  while  intoxicated  by  alcohol.  Military  police
stopped him after witnessing him fail to stop at a stop sign. They gave Applicant  three
portable  breathalyzer  tests.  The  results  showed  Applicant  had  a  .116,  .102,  and  .092
blood alcohol content (BAC). Applicant had been drinking at a bar for several hours and
drove home to meet base curfew. He was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI).
About  three  weeks  later,  because  of  the  DWI,  he  was  disciplined  pursuant  to  the
Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  Article  15.  Applicant’s  rank  was  reduced,  he
was  sentenced  to  45  days  of  extra  duty  and  45  days  restriction.  He  was  ordered  to
attend an Army Substance Abuse Program and was administratively separated from the
Army with a general discharge under honorable conditions in February 2018. (Items 2-5,
7)
In  about  September  2017,  Applicant  physically  assaulted  his  ex-spouse  after
getting into an argument with her. Applicant’s ex-spouse alleged that he body-slammed
her, causing her to strike her arm heavily on a dresser and the floor. Applicant claimed
that  he  did  not  touch  his  ex-spouse,  and  that  she  struck  him.  Applicant’s  ex-spouse
denied striking him, claiming that she merely knocked his breakfast on the floor. Military
police  responded  to  the  incident.  They  noted  bruising  on  Applicant’s  ex-spouse’s  arm
consistent with her version of events. Applicant claimed that his ex-spouse slipped on a
shoe and fell into a dresser. Military police also noted scratches on Applicant’s arm. He
claimed that his ex-spouse called military police because she thought she would get in
trouble  for  striking  him.  Applicant  was  arrested  by  military  police  but  not  formally
charged. While he was being questioned by military police, he  alleged that he and his
ex-spouse had not had domestic abuse issues in the past. However, he acknowledged
to a social worker during counseling that he and his ex-spouse had similar incidents in
2013  and  February  2017.  He  claimed  that  these  incidents  involved  his  ex-spouse
assaulting  him.  Regardless,  this  information  is  inconsistent  with  what  he  told  military
police  about  the  September  2017  incident  being  the  first.  In  October  2017,  the  Army
Family  Advocacy  Program  Case  Review  Committee  determined  that  Applicant’s  ex-
spouse qualified as a victim of physical abuse based upon this incident. In March 2019,
the  Army  authorized  payments  to  Applicant’s  ex-spouse  under  a  federal  law  that
provides  for  compensation  to  family  members  who  have  been  physically  abused  by
Army  servicemembers.  These  findings  tend  to  corroborate  his  ex-spouse’s  version  of
events. In 2019, Applicant and his (ex) spouse were divorced. (Items 2-5, 7-11)
Applicant underwent outpatient mental health counseling in parts of 2012, 2015,
2016, and from March 2017 until November 2017, while he was in the military. Applicant
attended ASAP for approximately three months and a licensed psychologist diagnosed
him with an alcohol use disorder-mild. While Applicant was initially told to abstain from
alcohol, his treatment records acknowledged that he could eventually consume alcohol
again  in  a  modified,  lower  risk  manner.  Applicant  abstained  from  alcohol  from
approximately July 2017 until the end of December 2019, when he began drinking about
two  glasses  of  wine  two  times  per  week.  The  last  time  he  was  intoxicated  was  July
2017. He acknowledged formerly having  a problem with alcohol. However, he claimed
that he now drinks responsibly and no longer has alcohol-related issues. (Items 2-5, 7)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  is  remorseful  for  the  conduct  listed  in  the  SOR.
However,  he  reiterated  his  claim  that  he  did  not  physically  assault  his  ex-spouse.  He
claimed  that  he  is  trying  to  better  himself  through  his  college  education  and  making
better decisions.  He twice made the dean’s list at his college. He also claimed that he
has  learned  from  his  mistakes  and  that  the  birth  of  his  one-year-old  child  has
contributed to his desire to be a better person. He provided character reference letters
from  those  who  know  him  who  claim  that  he  is  trustworthy,  responsible,  dedicated,
shows integrity, and is hard working. Some of the individuals who wrote letters note that
he has learned from his mistakes, but it is unclear whether any of these individuals are
aware of the allegations in the SOR. (Item 2; Response to FORM)
