Applicant is 69 years old, married for the third time, and has one adult child and
five adult stepchildren. He served 22 years as an Enlisted member in the active duty U.S.
Navy, honorably retiring in 1995. He earned an associate’s degree in 2001. Applicant has
worked  as  an  engineer  with  Federal  contractors  since  2000  and  has  been  with  his
sponsoring employer since January 2020.  He was granted a security clearance for the
first time in 1973, which he held throughout his Navy career. He was granted a security
clearance  again  in  2001  as  a  contractor  and  has  maintained  his  clearance  up  to  the
present. He seeks to retain his national security eligibility in connection with his current
employment. (Item 3 at Sections 2, 12, 13A, 17, 18, 25; Item 4 at Sections 13A, 25.)
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse
The  Government  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  security
clearance because of his illegal use of a controlled substance (marijuana). The three SOR
allegations are supported by Applicant’s  admissions in his Answer. The allegations are
also evidenced by Applicant’s statements in his e-QIP and his comments made during an
interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management held on October
28, 2021. (Items 2, 3, and 5.)
The details regarding the three SOR allegations and  Applicant’s admissions  are
as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a.  Marijuana use from July 2019 to at least August 2021 while granted
access to classified information. Applicant disclosed in his e-QIP that he used marijuana
a small number of times while on vacation in July 2019. He held a security clearance at
that time. He experimented with marijuana to see if it helped him manage his pain from
illness. He further disclosed that he began using marijuana again in February 2020. He
did  not  want  to  use  an  opioid  because  he  thought  it  would  become  addictive.  He
commented that he started using marijuana “several times a day on a daily basis.” The
period of his use continued up to the month he certified the e-QIP, i.e., August 2021. He
also  wrote,  “Per  discussion  with  my  medical  provider,  I  intend  to  smoke  marijuana  to
address Anxiety and Pain Management as well as [an] appetite stimulant in support of
my  Stage  4  Prostate  Cancer.”  He  commented  further  that  his  prostate  cancer  “has
metastasized to his bones.” He avoids using marijuana during the workday. Applicant has
not  reported  to  his  security  officer  or  anyone  else  at  his  employer  that  he  is  using
marijuana because he knows that it is a security violation. (Item 2 at 1; Item 3 at 39-42;
Item 5 at 1.)
SOR ¶  1.b. Purchase of marijuana from February 2020 to at least July 2021 while
granted access to classified information. Applicant purchased marijuana in 2019 in a state
where it was legal to do so. When he began using marijuana daily in 2020, he purchased
the  drug  from  his  grandson  and  continues  to  do  so  because  it  is  illegal  to  purchase
marijuana in his home state. He also intends to cultivate marijuana for his personal use,
which he asserts is legal under the laws of his state. (Item 2 at 1; Item 3 at 41; Item 5 at
1.)
SOR  ¶   1.c.   Intent  to  continue  to  purchase  and  use  marijuana  in  the  future.
Applicant intends to continue using marijuana because it provides the best management
of his pain. He stated in his security clearance interview that he would consider ceasing
his illegal drug use if he has to stop in order to keep his security clearance. He said that
he would need to discuss his options with his doctors. His doctors are aware that he uses
marijuana for pain management. There is no updated information in the record, including
in the Response, as to whether Applicant has ever engaged in the cultivation of marijuana.
(Item 2 at 1; Item 3 at 40; Item 5 at 1.)
