Applicant is 31 years old.  He is married a second time with no children.  He has
a high school diploma, and military training.  He holds the position of Aviation Mechanic
II with a defense contractor.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  two  separate  creditors  for
delinquent  accounts  totaling  approximately  $38,000,  which  were  charged  off  by  the
creditors.  Also, alleged is while in the military, Applicant was investigated for violations
of  the  UCMJ  Article  21,  Larceny:  Military  Property  More  Than  $500,  and  Article  132,
Fraud: Making False Claim. In his answer, Applicant admits allegation 1.a., and denies
allegations 1.b., and 1.c.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated October 19, 2021; April
27, 2022; and September 13, 2022, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 5,
6 and 7.)
Applicant served in the U.S. Marine Corps for nine years from November 2011 to
November  2020.  During  his  military  career,  he  held  a  security  clearance  without
incident, and was deployed on three separate occasions on overseas tours and multiple
small  mission  attachments.  He  received  a  number  of  awards  and  commendations
including  Good  Conduct  Medals,  Meritorious  Masts  Certificates,  and  several  Naval
Aviation  Marine  Corps  Medals.  He  received  an  honorable  discharge.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits G and H.)
1.a.
In  2013,  Applicant  was  in  the military.  He married a  woman and was  receiving
basic  allowance  for  housing  (BAH),  which  provides  money  to  cover  service  members
housing  and  related  costs  in  the  civilian  market  when  government  quarters  are  not
available.  The  BAH  he  received  was  to  support  himself  and  his dependent.  In  2015,
his wife joined the Air Force and was commissioned as an officer.  Applicant continued
to receive BAH, which he was not entitled to receive.  The rule is that a military member
married  to  another  military  member  who  has  no  dependents  other  than  the  spouse  is
entitled to partial BAH, meaning one member receives BAH, not both.  Applicant claims
that  he  unknowingly  received  more  BAH  than  he  was  entitled  to  receive.
In  2017,
Applicant and his wife divorced.  Applicant stopped the BAH, and Applicant deployed to
Okinawa.  An  audit  was  conducted  when  Applicant  was  deployed  to  Okinawa,  IPAC.
Apparently for at least two years, Applicant received BAH which he was not entitled to
amounting  to  at  least  $20,000  in  extra  pay.  In  November  2017,  Applicant  was
investigated  for  violations  of  UCMJ  Article  121-Larceny,  Military  Property  More  Than
$500, and Article 132-Fraud, Make False Claim.  Applicant stated that he went before a
military board, comprised of the Commanding Officer and members from the Squadron.
He  explained  that  he  unknowingly  received  more  BAH  than  he  was  allowed.  His
commanding officer dismissed the charges against him and nothing more came of the
investigation.  Applicant  did  not  receive  non-judicial  punishment  or a  court  martial.  In
2020, Applicant separated from the military with an honorable discharge.  He is entitled
to re-enlist if he so chooses.  For some unknown reason, Applicant was not required to
pay  the  BAH  money  back  to  the  military.  There  was  no  waiver  filed,  no  garnishment
action implemented, nor was his salary reduced due to this fraud.
The following delinquent debts were of security concern:
1.b.   Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  on  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $32,542.  He  explained  that  in  2015/2016,  he  took  out  a
personal loan that he used on his vehicles, and to loan money to a friend.  After a while,
Applicant  was  unable  to  continue  to  afford  to  make  the  monthly  payments  on  the
personal loan.  He was not contacted by the creditor for payment.  When his finances
improved, he contacted the creditor and obtained a settlement offer that he agreed to.
Applicant  has  now  successfully  settled  the  account  for  less  than  was  owed  in  the
amount of $16,272.  (Applicant’s Exhibits B, E, L, O, and P, and Tr. p. 36.)
1.c.   Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  on  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
amount  of  $5,432.  This  was  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  opened.  For  a  while  he  was
using it and paying it off.  He got to a point where he could no longer afford to pay his
bills  and  the  debt  went  into  collections.  He  was  not  contacted  by  the  creditor  for
payment.  When his finances improved, Applicant  contacted the creditor and resolved
the debt in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibits C, K, L, and M.)
Applicant testified that he has also taken a credit counseling class to learn how to
properly  budget  his  finances.  He  states  that  he  is  more  financially  mature  and  now
understands  his  mistakes  in  the  past  and  how  to  prevent  them  from  happening  in  the
future.  He also knows how to handle his credit and his debts without difficulty.  He now
(Tr.  p.  39.)
strives  to  follow  his  monthly  budget,  and  puts  money  away  in  savings.
Applicant’s  most  recent  financial  statement  shows  that  his  current  debts  are  paid  off,
and he is on track and financially sound.  (Applicant’s Exhibit N.)
A letter of recommendation from Applicant’s Site Supervisor, who was also in the
Marine  Corps  with  the  Applicant  working  the  same  platforms,  indicates  that  Applicant
has  many  favorable  characteristics.  He  has  a  positive  work  ethic,  attention  to  detail,
strict  adherence  to  rule  and  regulations,  and  strives  to  build  a  trustworthy  relationship
amongst his team and customers.  Applicant is described as a great mentor, friend, and
work colleague.  He is recommended for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
