Applicant  is  48  years  old.  He  is  unmarried,  but  resides  with  his  girlfriend,  and
has  no  children.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Engineering.  He  is  co-owner  of  an
Aerospace company that does defense contracting.  He is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  used  controlled  substances,  to  include
the misuse of prescription and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances
that cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or  psychological
impairment  and  raise  questions  about  a  person’s  ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with
laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  under
this guideline.
1.a.   Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequencies  from  about  October  1992
through  at  least  October  2019.  He  stated  that  he  began  using  marijuana  in  his  early
teens  and  through  college.  After  college  he  continued  to  use  it,  but  not  as  often,
averaging  once  every  few  years.  In  2017,  he  used  it  to  treat  pain  for  a  chronic  back
condition, but it did not help.  He continued to use it about twice a month or so to help
him  sleep.  This  use  continued  up  until  October  2019.  Applicant  stated  that  his  most
recent use of marijuana he believed to be legal based on his state law and the Federal
non-enforcement  stance.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B.)  He  stated  that he  now  understands
that  this  was  not  correct.  He  stated  that  he  had  no  intention  to  do  anything  illegal  or
against Federal law.  (Tr. pp. 46-49, and Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
1,b,
In  March  2017,  Applicant  provided  a  1.75  million  dollar  loan  to  a  company  that
was  in  the  business  of  cultivating  marijuana.  He  states  that  he  has  done  about  45  of
those  real  estate  loans  over  the  past  10  to  15  years.  (Tr.  pp.  60-67,  and  Applicant’s
Answer to SOR.)
1.c.   A  few  months  later  in  July  2017,  he  made  another  loan  to  a  company  to  allow
them to build a marijuana greenhouse and cultivate marijuana.  The borrower ran out of
money,  could  no  longer  make  the  payments  on  the  greenhouse,  and  the  project
In  the  beginning,  Applicant’s  intent  was  to  become  a  part-owner  in  the
dissolved.
business.  This was not a real estate loan, but a convertible note.  It was a loan in the
beginning, with the option of converting into ownership of the company once it became
an  operating  company  cultivating  marijuana.  Applicant  was  unable  to  exercise  the
option,  which  would  have  given  him  10  percent  of  the  company,  had  it  become
successful.  (Tr. pp. 64-67, and Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  states  that  he  has  no  intention  of  being  involved  in  the  marijuana
industry again, nor is he sensitive to having his past involvement be known by others or
vulnerable to coercion due to his past involvement.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D, and Answer
to SOR.)
Guideline  B  –  Foreign Influence
The SOR alleges that the Applicant has foreign contacts and interests, including
but  not  limited  to,  business,  financial,  and  property  interests,  that  are  of  a  national
security  concern  if  they  create  circumstances  in  which  the  individual  may  be
manipulated or induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in
a  way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or  otherwise  made  vulnerable  to  pressure  or
coercion by any foreign interest.  Applicant admits allegations 2.b., and 2.c., and denies
allegation 2.a.
2.a.   Applicant’s  girlfriend   is  a   citizen   of  Colombia.     He   met  her   in  October  2014.
Since   2015,   she   has  resided   with   the   Applicant.     He   denies  that  she   is  an
undocumented   immigrant,   or  that  she   was   an   undocumented   immigrant  when   he   met
her.     Applicant   submitted   copies   of   her  work  permits  from   June   2016   to   June   2017.
(Applicant’s Exhibit  A.)   When  he  met her,  she  was working  to  obtain  her residency.  It
was  his   understanding   that   she   came   to   the   United   States   on   a   fiancée   visa.     The
relationship   failed   and   she   overstayed   her  visa.    He  states  that  she   was  granted   her
residency in 2020.  She  is now working  towards obtaining  her green  card.  (Tr. pp. 70-
71.)
2.b.   Applicant’s  girlfriend’s  brother  is  a  career  member  of  the  Colombian  Army.  He
recently  retired  as  a  Sergeant  Major.  (Tr.  p.  71.)  Applicant  stated  that  he  does  not
provide  any  financial  support  to  his  girlfriend’s  brother.  However,  he  does  pay  for
medical school tuition in Colombian for his girlfriend’s brother’s daughter.  She got into
medical  school  at  sixteen.  Applicant  offered  to  pay  for  her  tuition.  Medical  school
(university) in Colombia is six years.  Applicant pays the tuition with his credit card.  He
has already provided about $25,000 in tuition over the past two years.  (Tr. pp. 72-74.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  has  visited  Colombia  on  two  occasions,  and  his  most
recent visit was in March 2022.  During his visit he met  some of his girlfriend’s family.
Her mother passed away many years ago, and her father is not in the picture.  She has
eight siblings.  All but three of them live in Colombia.  Applicant is not sure if any of his
girlfriend’s siblings, other than her brother, are affiliated in any way with the Colombian
Government.  (Tr. pp. 76-77.)
2.c.   Since 2017, Applicant has provided multi-million dollar financial investments and
loans  to  some  foreign  national  business  partners.
(Tr.  pp.  79-83,  and  Applicant’s
Answer to the SOR.)  The following information provides some background:
After  graduating  from  college,  in  1998,  Applicant  started  a  business  that  sold
vitamins  and  supplements  on-line.  Over  the  years,  he  has  grown  the  company  to  be
very successful.  At its peak in 2014, the business was worth about 77 million dollars.
He states that his company is currently worth about 20 million dollars.  He continues to
own and operate the company.  (Tr. pp. 57-58.)
In 2015/2016, Applicant was introduced to his now partner who owned a defense
contracting company.  At that time, they began discussing partnership possibilities.  In
mid-2018, Applicant formally joined his partner and started their company working with
the  defense  industry.  Applicant  had  been  using  marijuana,  and  continued  using  it  up
until  October  2019,  when  he  completed  a  security  clearance  application.  Applicant  is
the  co-owner  of  a  company  that  does  contracting  with  the  Defense  Department.
Applicant  states  that  there  are  three  full-time  employees,  Applicant’s  partner  and  co-
owner,  who  is  also  the  Facility  Security  Officer,  and  two  aircraft  mechanics.  The
company  owns  10  aircraft,  and  leases  a  few  more.  Applicant  requires  a  security
clearance in order to perform his duties for the company.  He admits that he entered this
industry later in life, and that he did not always follow Federal law.  (Tr. pp. 46-50, and
Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit H.)
Over the years, Applicant has also made other financial investments which have
amplified his income.  Applicant has been in the business of providing first and second
trustee  loans  on  real  estate  investments.  He  explained  that  he  loans  money  to
investors and takes ownership of the deed of title as collateral.  On various occasions,
he  has  funded  multi-million  dollar  financial  investments  and  provided  loans  to  foreign
nationals  for  their  businesses.  He  explained  that  at  times  there  are  multiple  private
investors  in  a  deal,  sometimes  up  to  four,  and  he  does  not  know  if  they  are  foreign
nationals.  He  does  know  that  on  many  occasions,  owners  of  the  real  estate  have
In  the  past,  Applicant  has  not  been
foreign  names  and  may  be  foreign  nationals.
concerned   as  to   who   he   is  giving   the   loan   to.    There   are  several   scenarios  in  which
Applicant may loan money to a  foreign  national.  Applicant is either loaning  money to  an
individual  to   purchase   the   real  property,  or  is  loaning   money  to   a   property  owner  to
allow them  to  renovate  or flip it.  However, he  does not vet these  people.  Typically, his
broker  finds  the   deal   for  him,  and   then   contacts  him   to   see   if  he   is  interested.
Applicant’s  only concern  about   the   deal is   the   value   of   the  property.   In   the  event that
the   loan   goes  unpaid,   he   gets  the   property,   and   the   property  must  be   worth   his  loan.
The  largest  loan  that  Applicant has funded  has been  2.5  million  dollars.   (Tr. pp.  60-67,
and  Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
Applicant  states  that  he  has  been  a  “pretty  active  investor.”  He  has  funded  at
least  45  secured  trust  deed  loans  through  a  licensed  broker  where  he  participates  as
the investor.  He has met only two of the borrowers since he started funding loans about
nine years ago.  Some of the borrowers are likely foreign citizens.  The loans are made
at  conservative  loan-to-value  ratios  and  a  deed  of  trust  is  recorded  with  the  county.
Applicant states that in the event of non-payment, a foreclosure process is initiated, and
the  property  liquidated  to  return  funds  to  the  lender,  eliminating  any  risk  of  them
withholding fund to exert leverage.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  owns 16  rental units,  which  generate  half  a  million  dollars per year  in
rent, about half of which is income.  He also owns half of a large industrial building in
another state  which  is used for his vitamin  company, but would  rent  for approximately
one million per year to a third party.  His assets  are on average, one third stocks, one
third  loans/cash,  and  one  third  real  estate  equity.  He  stated  that  his  total  assets  are
currently valued at about 30 million dollars.  His goal is to divest himself of the vitamin
company  within  a  year  and  concentrate  on  defense  contracting  and  passive
investments  (real  estate  ownership,  real  estate  lending,  and  publicly  traded  stocks).
(Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
In  assessing  the  heightened  risk  created  by  holding  a  security  clearance,  the
Applicant’s ties to a country are important.  Under the particular facts of this case, I have
taken  administrative  notice  of  the  information  provided  concerning  the  Country  of
Colombia.  Colombia is a constitutional, multi-party republic.  Colombia has endured a
decades-long  conflict  between  government  forces,  paramilitaries,  and  antigovernment
insurgent groups heavily funded by the drug trade, principally the Revolutionary Armed
Forces  of  Colombia  (FARC).  Recently,  there  has  been  a  significant  uptick  of  violent
incidents  targeting  Colombian  security  forces  in  various  parts  of  the  country.  The
Department of State has issued a level 3: Reconsider travel advisory for Colombia due
to crime, terrorism, and COVID 19, and to exercise increased caution due to civil unrest,
and  kidnapping.  Violent  crime,  such  as  homicide,  assault,  and  armed  robbery  is
widespread.  Organized criminal activities, such as  extortion, robbery, and kidnapping,
are common in some areas.  The Department of State has assessed Bogato, as being a
high  threat  location  and  Cartagena  as  being  a  medium  threat  location  for  terrorism
directed at or affecting official U.S. government interests.  There are significant human
rights  violations  including  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings;  reports  of  torture  and  arbitrary
detention  by  government  security  forces  and  illegal  armed  groups;  rape  and  abuse  of
women  and  children,  as  well  as  unlawful recruitment  of  child  soldiers  by  illegal armed
groups,  criminalization  of  libel,  widespread  corruption;  violence  against  and  forced
displacement of Afro-Colombian and indigenous persons; violence against lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender, and intersex persons; child labor; and killings and other violence
against trade unionists.  (H-1)
A letter of recommendation from his partner and co-owner of his company, who
also serves as the Facility Security Officer, considers Applicant to be extremely ethical,
trustworthy, hardworking, and an excellent business partner.  He believes that Applicant
is  transparent  with  him.  He  supported  Applicant’s  full  disclosure  of  the  all  of  the
information about his marijuana  use  and his prior investment  in a marijuana  business.
He  believes  that  Applicant  understands  that  he  will  be  held  to  the  highest  standards
while involved in classified work.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit G.)
A witness, who has a security clearance and military background, testified that he
has  known  the  Applicant  since  high  school  and  college.  He  has  also  worked  for  his
vitamin  company  by  providing  programming  services.  He  considers  Applicant  to  be
honest, trustworthy and responsible.  (Tr. pp. 20-26.)
Applicant submitted a Statement of Intent dated August 16, 2022.  He stated that
he has not been involved in any illegal drug use since the security clearance process.
He  further  stated  that  he  is  committed  to  abstaining  from  all  future  drug  involvement.
He  understands  that  any  future  drug  involvement  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  his
national security eligibility.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
