Applicant  is  36  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  two  sons,  ages  9  and  16
years of age.  He has some college education.  He is applying for the position of Aircraft
Painter  3.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline  F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  seventeen  separate  creditors
totaling  $79,855,  which  consists  of  delinquent  collection  and  charged-off  accounts.  In
his answer, Applicant admits  all of the  allegations, except 1.j., 1.k.,  1.l.,  1.o.,  and 1.q.,
which he contends he has paid off, settled, or made payments on.  (Applicant’s Answer
to  SOR.)  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  March  30,  2020;  April  25,  2020;  and
August 8, 2022, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4 and 5.)
Applicant  explained  that  he  fell  behind  on  paying  his  bills  due  to  his  lack  of
knowledge  on  how  to  properly  handle  his  finances  with  limited  resources.  He  admits
that he has been negligent.  He was raised in a poverty-stricken area where the  median
household income is $22,000 annually.  Applicant has been raising his two children and
taking care of his grandmother.  (Tr. pp. 28-29, and 69.)
Applicant began working for a defense contactor located in State A in June 2020.
His  goal was to  transfer to their facility  in State  B  to be  closer to his children who live
there.  Apparently at some point he transferred to work at the facility in State B.  Once
there,  he  did  not  find  the  workplace  welcoming.  He  claims  that  he  was  the  victim  of
constant  discriminatory,  derogatory  and  racist  remarks  that  have  caused  him  mental
distress.  He  was  the  only  African  American  in  the  office  of  about  80  employees.  He
stated that after a period of trying to work in the toxic environment, he could no longer
tolerate the abusive working conditions.  He has been on Family Medical Leave from his
job since May 24, 2022.  He stated that he is supporting himself and  living on what is
left in his 401(k).  He explained that he is seeing a psychiatrist for his mental condition.
He  has  moved  out  of  State  B  and  back  to  State  A,  and  has  applied  for  a  job  with
another  defense  contractor  who  is  currently  sponsoring  him  for  a  security  clearance.
(Tr. pp. 29-40.)
Applicant stated that he has  filed for social security disability insurance benefits
and  short-term  disability.  He  recently  learned  that  he  will  receive  back  pay,  and  he
plans  to  use  the  majority  of  his  money  to  pay  his  delinquent  debt.  Applicant  testified
that he is currently about $10,000 behind on his rent in State A.  He is not being evicted
because of the COVID 19 protections that are in place.  (Tr. p. 66.)
The following delinquent debt set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
of $24,295.  This debt is for a  vehicle that was totaled in an accident.  Applicant’s car
was hit in the back, and his car hit a vehicle in front of his.  Applicant’s  insurance had
lapsed, and did not cover the cost of his vehicle.  He states that he is currently working
with the creditor to set up a payment plan.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 43.)
1.b.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
of $6,139.  Applicant was a tenant who completed his lease, and began living month to
month  without  paying  rent  for  a  month  and  a  half.  This  was  during  COVID  19.
Applicant  was  temporary  laid  off  from  work at  the  time.  He  states  that  he  is  currently
working  with  the  creditor  to  set  up  a  payment  plan.  The  debt  remains  owing.  (Tr.  p.
46.)
1.c.   A delinquent debt owed to an energy company was placed for collection in
the amount of $1,508.  Applicant made one payment of $50 at the beginning of COVID
19, and then stopped due to financial hardship.  He is currently working with the creditor
to set up a payment plan.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt owed to a car rental company was placed for collection in
the amount of $1,472.  Applicant explained that he rented a vehicle, and he had it three
days longer than he had rented it, and they came to pick it up.  Applicant stated that he
needed it to take his children to school.  Applicant contends that the account has been
closed, and he does not know who to contact about setting up payment arrangements.
The  debt  still  shows  outstanding  on  his  most  recent  credit  report.  The  debt  remains
owing.  (Tr. p. 50.)
1.e.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for a credit card was charged-off in the
amount of $984.  The debt occurred during COVID 19.  Applicant testified that he was
working  with  the  creditor  to  set  up  payment  arrangements.  On  November  9,  2022,
Applicant settled the debt for $590.70.  (Tr. p. 51, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
E.)  The debt has been resolved.
1.f.  A delinquent debt owed to a  creditor for an internet  service was placed for
collection in the amount of $335.  Applicant states that he moved out of  his home and
did not turn off his service.  He is currently in contact with the collection agency to set up
a payment arrangement.  On November 8, 2022, Applicant settled the debt for $149.38.
(Tr. p. 52, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit F.)  The debt has been resolved.
1.g.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
Applicant  stated  that  he  came  into  a  settlement  and  purchased  the
of  $23,627.
corvette  for  $80,000.  This  Corvette  was  totaled  when  Applicant  hydroplaned  off  the
road and into a tree.  Applicant’s insurance lapsed on the day of the accident, and it did
not cover the vehicle.  The vehicle was sold and charged off.  Applicant states that he
attempted  to  make  payment  arrangements  but  was  unsuccessful.  (Tr.  p.  53-54.)  A
copy  of  his  credit  report  shows  that  the  debt  was  paid  in  full  for  less  than  the  full
balance.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit G.)  The debt has been resolved.
1.h.  A   delinquent   debt  owed   to   the   Department  of  Education   was  placed   for
collection  in the  amount of $9,835.  Applicant took out this loan  in 2012.  He states  that
he has  made payments  off  and  on.  The payments have  been  suspended  due to COVID
19.   He will resume  payments of $50 monthly  when  the  suspension  is lifted.  (Tr. pp. 56-
57.)   The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  Department  of  Education  was  placed  for
collection in the amount of $4,077.  Applicant took out this loan in 2012.  He states that
he  has  made  payments  off  and  on.  The  payments  have  been  suspended  due  to
COVID 19.  He will resume payments of $50 monthly when the suspension is lifted.  (Tr.
pp. 56-57.)  The debt remains owing.
1.j.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  telephone  bill  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  amount  of  $3,338.  Applicant  states  that  the  debt  was  paid  off  and
settled in May or June 2020, in the amount of $1,001.  (Tr. p. 57, and Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit J.)  The debt has been resolved.
1.k.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  cell  phone  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  amount  of  $1,496.  Applicant  states  that  the  debt  was  paid  off  and
settled for $754.50.  (Tr. p. 59, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit K.)  The debt has
been resolved.
1.l.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
of  $1,049.  This  was  for  what  he  owed  to  the  management  company  when  he  left  his
apartment.  Applicant  states  that  the  debt  was  paid  off  and  settled  in  the  amount  of
$1,045  to  the  creditor’s  law  firm.  (Tr.  p.  59,  and  Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  L.)
The debt has been resolved.
1.m.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for jewelry was placed for collection in
the amount of $533.  Applicant states that he made a $50 payment at the beginning of
COVID  19,  and  then  stopped.  Applicant  believes  this  debt  may  be  a  duplicate  of  the
debt listed in 1.o.  (Tr. pp. 59-60.)  Assuming it is, the debt has been resolved.
1.n.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
of $439.  Applicant states that he made a $50 payment at the beginning of COVID 19
and then stopped due to financial hardship.  (Tr. p. 61.)  The debt remains owing.
1.o.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the amount
of  $397.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.  Applicant  has  settled  the  debt  in  the  amount  of
$218.13.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit O.)  The debt has been resolved.
1.p.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  cell  phone  was  placed  for
collection in the amount of $276.  Applicant states that he made a $25 payment toward
the  debt  according  to  his  payment  arrangement.  (Tr.  p.  62.)  On  November  9,  2022,
Applicant settled the debt in the amount of $75.47.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit P.)
The debt has been resolved.
1.q.  A delinquent medical debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the
amount of $55.  Applicant denies the debt.  (Tr. p. 63.)  He states that the debt has been
paid off  in  the amount of $59.18.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing Exhibit  Q.)  The debt has
been resolved.
Applicant  explained  that  he  had  a  relocation  package  and  a  bonus  when  he
moved from State B to State A.  He used that money to pay off some of his delinquent
debts.  (Tr. p. 55.)
