In  his SOR  Response,  Applicant admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b,  and  provided a
narrative statement. His SOR admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  50  years old.  He  and  his  wife  have  been  married  for 23  years.  He
has  two  daughters  and  one  stepdaughter.  He  has  been  employed  with  a  defense
contractor since May 2020. (GE 1; Tr. 22)
Applicant testified that in December 2019, he was in a “dark place” after losing a
job  he  had  held  for  the  previous  19  years.  The  COVID-19  pandemic  began  soon
thereafter,  and  he  had  difficulty  finding  employment.  He  was  hired  by  his  current
employer  and  clearance  sponsor  in  May  2020  after  several  interviews.  He  has  never
held a clearance before. (Tr. 19-20; GE 1)
Applicant’s April 2020 arrest occurred before he was hired. He and his wife had
been arguing, and he decided to go for a ride. He went out and had “a couple of drinks.”
While  driving  home,  he  swerved  to  miss  a  deer,  went  off  the  road  and  hit  a  pole.
Paramedics  and  police  came  to  the  scene.  He  failed  a  field  sobriety  test  and  was
arrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI) first offense. (Tr. 20-21; GE 2, GE 3, GE 5)
(SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant  said he  curbed  his drinking  after that  for a  few months, but  in August
2020, after another argument with his wife, he left and drove to a nearby town and had
“a few beers here and there.” He said he swerved over the line and was arrested for a
second  offense.  (Tr.  21)  He  later  explained  that  it  was  a  Saturday,  and  he  started
drinking around noon, and had a few drinks. He “sat in the country a little bit. Decided I
would go get something to eat,  . . . and the next thing I know, I’m getting pulled over for
my  second  offense.”  (Tr.  34)  He  later  pleaded  guilty  to  another  charge  of  DWI  first
offense. (Tr. 35-36; GE 2, GE 4, GE 5) (SOR ¶ 1.b)
In   his  background   interview,  Applicant   gave   more   details.   He  said   he   started
drinking   around   noon.   He  went  to   a   local  convenience   store  and   purchased   two   20-
ounce   cans   of hard  lemonade,  and   “went  somewhere  and   sat.”   He   then   drove   around
for a   while  and   ended   up   at  a   sports bar. He   ordered   wings and  had  two   or three  20-
ounce  beers. A  friend  came  in and  Applicant  had  one  or two  more  20-ounce  beers.  He
was there  about two  or  three  hours and  went  home  around  8:30  or 9  pm. He was pulled
over  after  the   officer  observed   him   weaving.   Applicant   had   a   blood   alcohol  content  of
either .16  or .18 according  to the  roadside sobriety test. (GE 2)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  both  of  his  arrests  occurred  in  the  aftermath  of
arguments  with  his  wife.  They  have  not  participated  in  formal  marital  counseling,  but
they  have  met  with  some  family  friends  and  with  their  pastor  to  work  through  their
differences.  Things  have  improved  since  he  stopped  drinking  after  his  most  recent
offense, in August 2020. (Tr. 23)
As  to  SOR  ¶  1.a,  the  April  2020  offense,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  DWI  first
offense  in  January  2021.  He  received  a  60-day  suspended  jail  sentence,  one  year  of
probation,  and  he  was  fined  $250.  He  was  ordered  to  participate  in  an  alcohol  safety
awareness  program  (ASAP)  and  was  ordered  to  have  an  ignition  interlock  device
installed on his car. He completed the classes and probation for that offense. (Tr. 31-33;
GE 2, GE 3)
As to SOR ¶ 1.b, the August 2020 offense, Applicant pleaded guilty in February
2021. He was sentenced to six months in jail, of which  five months and 10 days were
suspended.  (GE  4)  He  said  he  served  eight  days  in  jail  after  he  was  credited  with
previous time served. (GE 2) He was also ordered to participate in the ASAP program
and to have an ignition interlock device placed on his car. (GE 2, GE 4)
Applicant reported his April 2020 offense on his May 2020 SCA. (GE 1 at 29) He
discussed  both  offenses  and  the  resulting  sentences  in  his  March  2021  background
security interview, which, as he noted, occurred shortly before he was to report to jail to
serve his sentence. He voluntarily disclosed his August 2020 DWI during the interview.
(GE 2)
The  Government’s  documentation  about  the  two  offenses  indicates  that  the
ignition interlock device was to remain on Applicant’s car for one year after his February
2021 sentence. (GE 3, GE 4). However, Applicant testified in his October 2022 DOHA
hearing that the ignition interlock device “has to stay on my car for two  years after the
last conviction.” (Tr. 26) He noted in his Answer that the interlock device would remain
on  his  car  until  February  2023  (two  years  after  his  February  2021  sentence  date).
(Answer)  He  testified  that  he  believed  he  was  still  on  probation  and  under  ignition
interlock requirements until August 2023. (Tr. 26-27, 40) He testified that his license is
restricted in that he cannot drive a car that is not equipped with an ignition interlock. (Tr.
40-41)
Applicant  has  not  had  any
to  alcohol
ignition
consumption. He has completed the classroom portion of the ASAP program, but he is
still in the ASAP program due to the interlock requirement. (Tr. 26-29; AE A) He has had
no subsequent alcohol-related offenses. (Tr. 36)
interlock  violations  due
During  his  testimony,  Applicant  volunteered  that  he  had  a  prior  DUI  arrest  in
1999, an offense that he did not list on his SCA. (Tr. 42) He explained that he was taken
out drinking by friends for his bachelor party the weekend before his wedding. He said
he  was  allowed  to  drive  home  afterwards.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with  first
offense DUI after he ran a stop sign. He later pled guilty, attended ASAP classes, and
had a restricted driver’s license for six months. He found new friends and priorities, and
later earned an engineering degree. He also stopped drinking for 12 years. (Tr. 52-54)
(SOR ¶ 1.c)
Applicant has “struggled a bit here and there,” but has tried to remain sober. He
is  not  proud  of  his  actions.  His  relationship  with  his  family,  friends,  and  children  has
improved.  (Tr.  21)  He  described  his  August  2020  as  a  life-changing  event.  He  spent
eight days in jail. He is grateful no one was injured, and he will not drink and drive again
and  hopes  never  to  drink  again.  He  has  been  sober  since  his  last  offense,  in  August
2020. (Tr. 29, 37)
Applicant has attended about half a dozen Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings
over the  last two  years,  most  recently  in July  2022.  He is  prompted  to  go to meetings
after a rough day at work or when  arguing over money or things at home. He goes to
AA  meetings  instead  of  going  for  a  drink.  He  does  not  have  a  sponsor  and  is  not
formally  in  the  AA  12-step  program.  (Tr.  24-25)  He  has  not  had  any  other  alcohol
counseling. (Tr. 42) Applicant believes he is an alcoholic. (Tr. 37)
Recent  evaluations  reflect  that  Applicant  is  regarded  as  a  highly  valued
employee.  He  exceeds  goals  and  expectations  for  his  role  and  he  demonstrates
leadership and effectiveness in managing complex tasks. He has “grown immensely” in
his time with the company and has been instrumental in accomplishing leadership roles
and assigned tasks. (Tr. 22; AE B, AE C)
