Applicant  is  62  years  old,  divorced,  and  has  three  adult  children.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  1989.  He  has  worked  as  an  engineer  for  his  security  clearance
sponsor  since  September 2020. Applicant has  held a  secret  clearance  for most  of  the
period  from  1992  to  the  present.  He  seeks  to  retain his security  clearance  eligibility  in
connection with his employment. (Tr. at 13-15; GE 1 at Sections 2, 12, 13A, 17, 18, and
25, AE E.)
Paragraph 1  - Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  security  clearance
because he has a long history of excessive alcohol consumption and he failed to follow
treatment advice after he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder (severe). In his Answer
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d and 1.f and 1.g, and he admitted in part and
denied in part SOR ¶ 1.e. He provided additional information to clarify his admissions to
SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g.
The  details  of  each  of  the  SOR  allegations  and  related  record  evidence  is  as
follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a   2007   arrest  and   charge   for  Driving   Under  the   Influence   -  Alcohol.
Applicant has little recollection of what happened the night of his arrest aside from waking
up  in  the  county  jail’s  “drunk  tank.”  In  an  interview  in  connection  with  a  prior  security
clearance investigation, he disclosed that he hit a pedestrian in an intersection. He told
the  investigator  that  there  were  no  injuries.  He  pled  no  contest  to  Driving  Under  the
Influence - Alcohol (DUI) and was sentenced to five years of probation. (Tr. at 15, 22-23;
GE 1, Sections 22, 24; GE 3 at 25; GE 4 at 1-2; GE 5 at 3.)
SOR ¶ 1.b  March  to  May 2010  outpatient counseling  for condition  diagnosed  as
alcohol dependence.  Applicant was terminated from a job in early 2010 for showing up
for  work  intoxicated.  He  voluntarily  admitted  himself  into  this  two-month  outpatient
program. He fully complied with the conditions of the program. Appellant started drinking
alcohol when he was in his forties. He started drinking more heavily in the 2007 to 2010
period. In the outpatient program, he was diagnosed as alcohol dependent (Tr. at 15-16,
28-29; GE 3 at 9, 25.)
SOR  ¶  1.c   September  to   October  2010   inpatient  treatment  for   a   condition
diagnosed  as  alcohol dependence. Applicant’s marriage “fell apart” in 2010 when he and
his wife separated, and the stress following the breakup caused Applicant to relapse and
start drinking excessively again. He voluntarily admitted himself into a 30-day inpatient
treatment program. (Tr. at 16-17, 29-33; GE 1, Section 24.)
SOR  ¶  1.d   Between   2010   and   June   2015,   multiple  periods  of  inpatient  and
outpatient  treatment  for  a   condition   diagnosed   as  alcohol   dependence.  Applicant  had
periods of sobriety after his 2010 inpatient treatment. The longest was about 18 months.
He  had  several  relapses.  Sometimes  he  voluntarily  entered  an  inpatient  treatment
program for about seven days, and on other occasions he decided to pursue outpatient
treatment. He stated that he was not taking his condition seriously and did not realize that
he had crossed the line between being a social drinker into being an alcoholic. He did not
appreciate the seriousness of the disease of alcoholism. Applicant and his wife divorced
in January 2014. (Tr. at 17; 32-33; GE 1, Sections 17, 24.)
SOR  ¶  1.e   May  2014   arrest  and   charges  with   DUI  and   Failure  to   Stop   after  an
Accident. Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI and Failure to Stop, as alleged in
the SOR. He denied, however, the allegation that he was sentenced to four days in jail.
He testified that after his arrest he was put in the “drunk tank” overnight until he regained
his sobriety and then was released.  The  FBI report and  the  local sheriff’s report in  the
record support the allegation that he was sentenced to four days in jail. He described the
incident as a relapse and after drinking alcohol he drove to a store to buy groceries. He
had a minor accident and, due to the nature of the incident, he pulled his car into a parking
space to get his car off the road. The police treated his actions as a “hit and  run.” This
charge was eventually dropped. He testified that the accident was caused by the careless
driving of the other party involved, but Applicant took full responsibility for the accident
because  he  was  intoxicated.  His  BAC  was  0.19%.  He  plead  guilty  to  DUI  and  was
sentenced to five years of probation. He believes that the reference in his criminal record
to  five  days  in  jail  may  have  been  a  suspended  sentence.  He  was  also  sentenced  to
attend an 18-month alcohol education program. He fully complied with the terms of his
sentence. He voluntarily entered an outpatient treatment program, as described in SOR
¶ 1.d, above. (Tr. at 17-18, 23, 33-39; GE 1, Sections 22, 24; GE 2 at 5; GE 3 at 6, 24;
GE 4 at 3; GE 5 at 5.)
SOR ¶ 1.f  August to  September 2017  inpatient treatment  for conditions  diagnosed
as Alcohol Use Disorder (Severe) and  Depression. Applicant testified that his depression
was not long-term, but rather was “incidental to  the  alcohol.” He was depressed  by  his
living conditions in a desert area that was not agreeable to him and his lingering negative
feelings following his divorce.  He was experiencing stress related to his job and family
situation. His abuse of alcohol also acted as a depressant. He voluntarily entered into a
30-day inpatient program. He testified that at this point, his longest period of sobriety was
sixteen months, starting in January 2016 and ending in May 2017. He was discharged
with  a  diagnosis  of  Substance  Abuse  Disorder  –  Alcohol,  Severe  with  a  co-occurring
mental  disorder  of  Depression.  He  was  given  a  guarded  prognosis.  After  he  left  the
treatment facility in September 2017, he relocated to another city and lived in a shared
community home that was dedicated to alcohol-free living. He did well there until 2019
when he had a relapse and lost his job due to his failure to contact his supervisor and to
show up for work. (Tr. at 18-19, 42-50; GE 1, Section 24; GE 2 at 2-3; GE 3 at 9; GE 7 at
7-8.)
SOR ¶ 1.g  January to  February 2021  inpatient treatment for conditions diagnosed
as Alcohol Use Disorder (Moderate  or Severe) and  Major Depressive  Disorder (Single
Episode,  Severe).  Applicant  had  a  “short  relapse”  in  January  2021.  He  voluntarily
checked himself into an inpatient program. He was intoxicated at the time, and his BAC
measured at 0.183%. He only intended to stay long enough to detox. The SOR allegation
stated  that  he  left  the  treatment  facility  before  completing  his  Continuing  Recovery
Discharge Plan. He explained that was true, but his early departure from the program was
the result of a misunderstanding. Due to his intoxicated condition at the time he entered
the program, he did not understand that he was expected to remain at the facility for 30
days. He could not stay there for more than a brief period because that would have kept
him away from his new job. He stayed for about five days; long enough, in his view, to
safely  detox  from  his  condition.  The  treatment  facility’s  discharge  summary  lists
Applicant’s  diagnosis  on  arrival  was  Alcohol  Intoxication  with  moderate  or  severe  use
disorder.  The  summary  reflects  that  he  made  no  progress  in  treatment  and  left  the
program before any planning could be done or any referrals provided. Applicant failed to
list this treatment in his February 5, 2021 e-QIP because he was tired of filling out the e-
QIP and he felt that the treatment was not significant, rather it was just a “quick detox.”
(Tr. at 19, 51-58, 66; GE 3 at 10; GE 6 at 1, 18.)
The last time Applicant drank alcohol was in July 2022. He purchased alcohol and
consumed it at his residence. He was not fully engaged in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) at
the time. He described his attendance at AA meetings prior to July 2022 as “spotty.”  As
a  result of  his relapse, he  was required  to renew his sobriety  date at  AA.  On  May  26,
2022, Applicant signed a statement “under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United
States that he intended to never drink alcohol again and never to drive after drinking. His
statement  also  expressed  his  understanding  that  “any  inappropriate  involvement  with
alcohol use may be grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.” At the hearing
in  December  2022,  Applicant  strongly  emphasized  this  he  wants  “to  lick  this  thing,”
referring to his alcoholism, and to live an alcohol-free life. This is his top priority now. He
feels that his alcoholism is ruining his life, his health, and possibly his career. (Tr. at 53,
55-65; AE A.)
Paragraph 2, Guideline I, Psychological Conditions
The Government cross-alleged under Guideline I the SOR allegations set forth in
¶¶ 1.b through 1.d, 1.f and 1.g. Applicant did not separately respond to these allegations
in his Answer.
Mitigation
Applicant described  his  alcohol consumption,  until he  was  about  45,  as social.    He
blames the  beginning  of his excessive  drinking  on  his  “bad  marriage.” He  was  opposed
to  divorcing  for religious reasons. Instead,  he turned  to  alcohol.  Applicant acknowledged
that   he   is   an   alcoholic.  He   now   attends   meetings  of   Alcoholics  Anonymous   (AA)   most
mornings, and  he  intends to  continue  to  do  so. He has  a  sponsor. Applicant believes  that
alcohol is a  “tricky disease,” because  it misleads you  to  believing  that it is not a  disease
and  is not a  problem.  It has taken  him  a  long  time  to  realize  that he  is an  alcoholic and
that he  needs to  do  whatever the  AA  program  requires. He is actively involved  in the  AA
12-step  program. He  is  presently at Step  8. He  intends  to  actively participate  in  AA  for the
rest   of  his  life.  He  rents   a   room   from   an   individual  who   is  also  in  AA.  They  have   an
agreement that  there will  be  no  drinking  of alcohol in  the  residence. Applicant  explained
that he  has now fully accepted  his disease  of  alcoholism  and  treats his disease  with  AA
and by seriously practicing  his religious faith. He also receives counseling  from  the  pastor
at his church. He understands now that he can no longer turn to alcohol to help him  deal
with  stress in his life.  After his last  relapse  he  has a  new sponsor. He speaks  with  the
sponsor weekly.  His prior sponsor lived  too  far from  Applicant, and  he  recommended  to
Applicant that he  should find  a  sponsor who  lives near Applicant. (Tr. at 16-17, 19-24, 27,
60-61; AE  I.)
Applicant’s  AA  sponsor  wrote  in  a  character reference  letter  that  he  has  known
Applicant  for  about  six  years  through  their  attendance  at  AA  meetings.  He  praised
Applicant for “reworking” the 12 steps of AA. He commented that Applicant has held an
administrative  position  in  his church and now  has  a  similar position  with  a  social club.
Applicant  also  submitted  four  other  character  reference  letters.  His  former  sponsor,  a
former  neighbor,  a  former  supervisor,  and  his  church  pastor  all  praised  Applicant’s
character and his dedication to maintaining sobriety. (AE C; AE I.)
