After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old, married (since October 1996), with an adult son and an
adult  daughter.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from
February 1993 on active duty until he retired with an honorable discharge in March 2019
as a master sergeant. He held security clearances while on active duty. Since April 2018,
he has been employed by a defense contractor. Before that, from November 2017 to April
2018, he worked as a contractor for or an employee of his current employer.  (Items 3
through 5.)
Guideline F
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  six  delinquent  debts
totaling $24,980. (Item 1.)  He denied those allegations and submitted a textual answer,
the relevant parts of which are summarized below:
At the  time  you  are  referring  to  my  family was going  through  a  difficult
medical crisis. My wife  was diagnosed with breast cancer she was off work
while we went to  chemotherapy treatments at  [facility].  She  had  to  have  a
double mastectomy her recovery  was slow and  painful. My wife  does our
finances and  opened  these  accounts to  cover the  lost  [sic]  of  income. I  was
not aware  of these  accounts with  her being  out of work. During  this time, I
worked  on   taking  her   to   appointments and   getting   the   kids to   school and
going   to   work  at  my  job   where  I  worked   for  the   412th   Communication
Squadron, Edwards AFB CA  . . . .
Any debts  incurred  will  be  taken  care of since  I  am  aware  of them  me
and  my wife have  discussed  them. I was not aware if any accounts were in
a  delinquent  status since  I did not  handle  the  finances. So  when  I  answered
no   on   the   Equip Questionnaire   I  was answering   to  my  knowledge  at  that
time.  (Item 2.)
The six SOR debts remain delinquent. The SOR accounts were opened between
May  1995  and  August  2017.  Other  than  the  August  2017  account,  the  other  SOR
accounts  were  opened  between  1995  and  2015.  (Items  10-12.)  Each  of  the  SOR
accounts  were  individual  accounts  opened  in  Applicant’s  name.  The  six  SOR  debts
became delinquent between April 2017 and December 2017. The last payments on five
of those six accounts were between December 2016 and April 2017. (Items 10 and 11.)
In an addendum to his interrogatory responses, Applicant explained his financial
circumstances, which are summarized below:
In  January 2017, his father-in-law died  unexpectedly  causing  related
expenses.   In   February  2017,  his  wife   had   surgery  and   developed
complications that kept  her out of work for eight weeks. In  that same  month,
he  retired  from  the  Air  Force and  was  working  only  two  to  three  days  a  week.
He did not receive disability payments  until April 2018. Those  events caused
financial hardship for  his family. (Item 5  at 12.)
During Applicant’s October 12, 2022 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), he did not
mention his father-in-law’s death, his wife’s surgery, or his delayed disability payments.
(Item 5.)
In that same addendum, Applicant addressed the SOR debts as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a  is an account charged off for $3,104. He contacted the creditor, and it
is allowing him to make payments until paid in full. He produced no documents supporting
that assertion. This debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b is an account in collection for $579. He is making payments of $155 to
pay off the account. He produced no documents supporting that assertion.  This debt is
not resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.c.  is  an  account  charged  off  for  $2,854.  He  has  filed  a  dispute  and  is
awaiting a response. He produced no documents supporting that assertion. This debt is
not resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.d.   is  an  account  charged  off  for  $11,119.  He  did  not  respond  to  this
allegation. This debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.e   is  an  account  charged  off  for  $3,165.  He  has  filed  a  dispute  and  is
awaiting a response. He produced no documents supporting that assertion. This debt is
not resolved.
SOR  ¶   1.f  is  an  account  in  collection  for  $4,159.  He  has  filed  a  dispute  and  is
awaiting a response. He produced no documents supporting that assertion. This debt is
not resolved. (Item 5 at 12.)
In sum, Applicant has not resolved the SOR debts.
As part of his interrogatory responses,  Applicant  submitted  a  Personal  Financial
Statement.  His and  his wife’s total  net monthly  income  was $11,593. After deducting  debt
service, their net monthly remainder was $5,692.  (Item 5 at 11.)   Applicant  stated  on two
occasions  that he was unaware of his finances,  because his wife handled those  matters.
(Items 2  and  5.) He also  said that he  “does not need  to  make  any financial changes to  be
able to pay off and  stay up to date on his finances.” (Item  5 at 6.)
Guideline E
Under  Guideline   E,  SOR  ¶   2.b   alleged   that   in  about  April  2007   Applicant  was
charged   with   a   felony   violation   of   Uniform   Code   of   Military  Justice   (UCMJ)  Article  120
(Rape). (Item   1.)  He  denied  that  allegation.  (Item   2.)  SOR  ¶   2.c  alleged  that  the   May
2014 SCA asked whether he had EVER been charged with  any felony offense, including
under  the   UCMJ?   (Emphasis  in   original.)  In   his   May   2014   SCA,   he   answered   “No,”
thereby  deliberately falsifying  that  SCA.   He  denied  that  allegation.  (Item  2.) He did not
disclose  the rape charge in  his May 2014 SCA. (Item  4.)
SOR ¶ 2.d alleged that Applicant made the same deliberate falsifications to those
questions in his August 2021 SCA. (Item 1.) He denied those allegations. (Item 2.) He did
not disclose the rape charge in his August 2021 SCA. (Item 3.)
Under Guideline E, SOR ¶ 2.e alleged that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose
in his August 2021 SCA those delinquent debts set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f. (Item
1.) He denied those allegations. (Item 2.) He did not disclose those debts in his August
2021 SCA. (Item 3.)
In addition to his short denials of the Guideline E allegations, Applicant submitted
a more detailed explanation, the pertinent part of which follows:
This is mostly to  an  oversight  on  my part, was not trying  to  deceive
at all.  I  was  charged  in  2007  for an  incident that happened  back in  1997. It
went to an  Article 32 hearing where the accusations were proven false and
all  the  charges were dismissed. So that was my fault not thinking, because
I was  on  the  list  for  deployment I asked  if  this  would affect it  from  what  I  can
recall   my  counsel  telling   me   that  since   it  was  over  and   everything   was
dismissed  it is like  it never happened. So  I was not trying  to  be  untruthful.
On   the   2014   Equip  questionnaire   I  answered   no   and   did  not  get  any
questions back about this. Also when  it  was asked  on  the  2021  equip  I was
only going  back  10  years since  I figured  that  was what was  needed  for a
Secret  Clearance. So  again I  was not trying  to  be  untruthful was  just  looking
at the scope.  . . .  (Item  2.)
The  record  has  a  Charge  Sheet  showing  that  on  April  16,  2007  Applicant  was
charged under UCMJ Article 120 with a rape that took place on February 19,1999. (Item
8.)  After an investigation, on May 8, 2007, that charge was dismissed due to credibility
issues of the accuser.  (Response at 1-8.)
In  his  Response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  provided  a detailed  explanation  of  the
circumstances of the1999 alleged rape. His explanation recounted graphic descriptions
of the day and the evening in question. He specifically denied the accusations made by
the accuser. He also provided details of exculpatory evidence. (Response at 9.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well  established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security  clearance.  As  the
that   security
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must,  on  the  side  of denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability
for  a   security  clearance,   an
administrative  judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative  guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of  the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires   that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel. . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
