Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  November  2017.  He  received  a  high  school  diploma  in  1995.  He  was
married in 2002 and divorced in 2009. He remarried in 2010, but he separated from his
second  wife  in  2015.  He  has  two  children,  ages  19  and  16.  He  served  on  active  duty
with the U.S. Air Force from 1997 to 2003 and received an honorable discharge but was
separated for an alcohol-treatment failure. (Items 2, 3)
In  the  SOR,  under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  eight
delinquent debts totaling about $78,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h). The largest of these
debts  was  a  $66,000  child  support  delinquency  listed  in  SOR  ¶  1.b.  The  Government
also alleged that he misused his corporate credit card from September 2015 until March
2016  (SOR  ¶  1.i)  Finally,  it  alleged  that  in  July  2005,  he  filed  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy
petition that was discharged in November 2005 (SOR ¶ 1.j). In his response to the SOR,
Applicant admitted these allegations except for SOR ¶ 1.b, which he denied. He claimed
that he brought this account current in 2016 or 2017. The Guideline F SOR allegations
Including  SOR  ¶  1.b,  are  established  through  Applicant’s  admissions  and  the  credit
reports produced by the Government. (Items 3, 7-11)
Applicant provided no evidence concerning the resolution or attempted resolution
of the SOR debts, except for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. He claimed that he resolved
the child support delinquency in  SOR ¶ 1.b by bringing the account  current in 2016 or
2017, but he provided no documents to corroborate this claim. The Government’s 2018,
2019,  2021,  and  2022  credit  reports  reflect  this  account  as  an  account  in  collections.
The 2022 credit report reflects a balance that is higher than that listed in the SOR. Any
adverse information not alleged in the SOR, such as the increased balance associated
with the debt listed in SOR ¶ 1.b cannot be used for disqualification purposes, however
it may be considered in assessing an applicant’s credibility; in evaluating an applicant’s
evidence of extenuation, mitigation, or changed  circumstances; in considering whether
the  applicant  has  demonstrated  successful  rehabilitation;  and  in  applying  the  whole-
person  concept.  (ISCR  Case  No.  15-07369  at  3  (App.  Bd.  Aug.  16,  2017)).  He  has
neither  resolved,  nor  is  he  in  the  process  of  resolving,  any  of  the  SOR  debts.  He
presented  no  evidence  to  show  he  has  participated  in  financial  counseling  or  has  a
working budget. He did not present evidence of his current financial situation. (Items 1,
3, 8-11)
Applicant  failed  to  report  any  financial  delinquencies  on  the  Questionnaire  for
National Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in  January 2018. He was required to
report  the  delinquency  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b.  During  his  November  2018  security
interview, he did not disclose this financial delinquency until the investigator confronted
him with it. He denied that he deliberately failed to disclose the delinquent debt in SOR
¶  1.b  because  he  believed  that  the  debt  was  not  delinquent  and  he  therefore  did  not
need to disclose it. While he did not disclose other delinquent debts on the SF 86 that
he should have, he did disclose the derogatory financial issue listed in SOR ¶ 1.i. (Items
1, 3)
From  about  September  2015  until  about  March  2016,  Applicant  misused  his
employer-issued  credit  card  by  charging  about  $2,500  to  it  for  personal  housing
expenses.  He  claimed  that  he  needed  the  money  because  of  his  separation  from  his
spouse.  He  claimed  that  he  promptly  paid  the  money  back  through  a  loan  from  his
retirement account. He claimed his employer did not discipline him for this misuse. He
provided no documentary evidence related to this incident. (Items 1-3)
Applicant filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition in July 2005. The bankruptcy court
granted  him  a  Chapter  7  discharge  in  November  2005.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the
record  as  to  the  reason  he  filed  bankruptcy  or  the  amount  of  the  debt  that  was
discharged. (Item 7)
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his 2015 separation from his spouse
and  the  financial  burden  of  his  child  support  payments.  He  claimed  that  he  is  paying
about $3,500 per month for child support, which is more than he earns. He claimed that
he is trying to have his ex-wife agree to a lower amount. He provided no documentary
evidence of the amount of his monthly obligation, how much he earns per month, or any
efforts to resolve the issue. (Items 1-3, 8-11)
Applicant’s  estranged  spouse  alleged  that  in  about  November  2015,  Applicant
threatened to harm her repeatedly over the telephone. She alleged that he hacked her
e-mail account and sent sexually explicit photographs of her to her work colleagues and
her lawyer. She also alleged that he posted sexually explicit photographs of her online.
She  alleged  that  she  feared  for  her  safety  because  of  Applicant’s  actions  and
statements towards her.  In  December 2015,  based upon these allegations,  she  filed a
petition  for  injunction  for  protection  against  domestic  violence  against  Applicant.  On
February 24, 2016, a court awarded his estranged spouse a final judgment of injunction
for  protection  against  domestic  violence  (“protection  order”  or  “PO”)  against  Applicant.
Applicant was provided notice and an opportunity to be heard at the hearing, but he did
not  attend.  The  court  found  that  Applicant’s  estranged  spouse  had  been  a  victim  of
domestic violence or that she had reasonable cause to believe that she was in imminent
danger of becoming a victim of domestic violence by Applicant.  In his response to the
SOR,  Applicant  admitted  sending  an  unspecified  “e-mail,”  but  denied  improperly
accessing her e-mail account because they both had access to one another’s accounts.
He also denied sending sexually explicit photographs of his estranged wife. (Items 1, 5)
In about June 2010, Applicant was arrested and charged with battery against his
then-girlfriend  (now  estranged  spouse).  He  was  found  guilty,  sentenced  to  a  month  in
jail,  placed  on  probation  for  a  year,  and  was  ordered  to  attend  anger  management
courses.  He  claimed  that  he  has  fulfilled  all  the  requirements  of  his  conviction.  The
arrest and conviction resulted from him throwing a beer can at the victim that hit her in
the face. He also pushed her out of a chair. He had been drinking alcohol at the time.
Immediately  following  this  incident,  she  agreed  to  allow  him  to  drive  her  to  a  hotel.
However, while she was in the car, she became fearful of him again and jumped out of
the car while it was at a stoplight. At a minimum, he committed the crime of battery and
engaged in domestic violence while he was consuming alcohol. (Items 1, 3, 4, 6)
In August 2010, Applicant was charged with driving with a suspended license. He
believed that his license was suspended for his failure to pay child support obligations.
He was found guilty of this charge. He admitted to the conduct but claimed that he did
not  realize  that  his  license  was  suspended.  In  March  2011  he  was  charged  with
violating the terms of his probation because of driving on a suspended license. He was
found  guilty  of  violating  the  terms  of  his  probation.  In  December  2011,  he  was  again
charged with driving on a suspended license. (Items 1, 3, 4, 6)
In  November  2010,  Applicant  was  charged  with  violating  the  terms  of  his
probation  when  he  tested  positive  for  methamphetamine  after  taking  a  court-ordered
drug  test.  He  claimed  that  he  tested  positive  because  he  took  some  of  his  wife’s
prescription  Adderall.  He  did  not  have  a  prescription  for  Adderall  when  he  tested
positive. He was found guilty of violating the terms of his probation. (Items 1, 3, 6)
In  about  September  2007,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  driving
under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  The  charges  were  ultimately  dismissed  after
Applicant  paid  fines  and  attended  court-ordered  alcohol  treatment  classes.  I  consider
his  payment  of  fines  and  attendance  of  treatment  classes  as  an  admission  of  the
underlying criminal conduct. (Items 1, 3, 6)
In about January 2004, Applicant was driving with an open container of alcohol in
his car. He was charged with a moving violation and pleaded guilty. He was required to
pay fines and he did so. (Items 1, 3)
Between  about  June  and  July  2002,  Applicant  attended  command-directed
alcohol  counseling  and  treatment  while  he  was  in  the  military.  These  counseling
sessions  were  about  eight  hours  daily  and  lasted  about  four  weeks.  During  this
treatment and counseling, he was diagnosed with alcohol abuse. Despite this treatment,
he  was  administratively  separated  from  the  Air  Force  in  February  2003  for  alcohol
rehabilitation failure. (Items 1, 3)
In about May 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with battery against his
first wife. He pleaded no contest and was placed on probation and required to pay fines.
He  was  also  required  to  complete  an  anger  management  course.  He  and  his  ex-wife
engaged in a physical confrontation when both had been consuming alcohol. Applicant
has fulfilled all the requirements that resulted from his pleading no contest. (Items 1, 3,
5, 6)
In  about  April  2000,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  disturbing  the
peace  outside  of  a  restaurant.  He  was  making  threats  and  appeared  to  be  under  the
influence  of  alcohol.  He  pleaded  no  contest  and  paid  required  fines.  As  part  of  his
sentence, he was ordered not to return to the restaurant. (Items 1, 4, 6)
Applicant drinks beer about one to two times per week. He claimed that he drinks
about one to two beers when he drinks. He claimed that he does not drink to the point of
intoxication,  but  he  also  reported  that  he  was  last  intoxicated  on  December  31,  2021.
He intends to continue to drink beer at his current level of consumption. He claimed that
he does not have a problem with alcohol and that his drinking does not have any effect
on his work, home life, friendships, judgment, or physical or emotional well-being. (Item
3)
Under  Guideline  J,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  arrests  and  underlying
conduct,  the entry  of  the  PO  and  underlying conduct, and his probation  violations  and
underlying  conduct  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a  through  2.g).  Under  Guideline  G,  the  Government
alleged  Applicant’s  2002  alcohol  counseling,  his  “alcohol  abuse”  diagnosis,  his
separation  from  the  military  for  alcohol  rehabilitation  failure,  and  his  2004  citation  for
driving  with  an  open  alcohol  container  (SOR  ¶¶  3.a  through  3.c).  It  also  cross-alleged
his 2002 arrest for battery, his 2007 arrest for DUI, and his 2010 arrest for battery, along
with  the  underlying  conduct  (SOR  ¶  3.d).  Under  Guideline  E,  the  Government  alleged
that  Applicant  falsified  his  SF  86  because  he  failed  to  list  his  delinquent  child-support
account in it (SOR ¶ 4.a). It also cross-alleged the delinquent child-support account, his
misuse of his employer-issued credit card, his arrests (and the underlying conduct), his
probation  violations  (and  the  underlying  conduct),  the  entry  of  the  PO  (and  the
underlying conduct), and it cross-alleged SOR ¶¶ 3.a through 3.c (SOR ¶ 4.b). (Item 1)
