Under Guideline  F,  the  SOR (as  amended)  alleged  that Applicant owed  $48,968
for 17  delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a  –  1.q). Eight  of the  debts alleged (SOR 1.a
–  1.d, 1.l, 1.m, 1.p  and  1.q) are for unpaid medical accounts.  Five  others (SOR 1.g  –  1.k)
are  for  unpaid  student  loans.  The   remaining   allegations  address   unpaid  commercial
accounts.  In  her  Answer, Applicant admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  and  provided  an
explanatory statement.  In  addition  to  the  facts established  by Applicant’s admissions, I
make the following findings of  relevant fact.
Applicant is 44 years old and is employed by a defense contractor, for whom she
has worked, first as a temporary staffing hire then as a direct hire, since October 2019.
This  is  her  first  application  for  a  security  clearance.  She  and  her  husband  have  been
married since September 2007, but they have separated several times. As of the hearing,
they  were  living  together  but  had  experienced  at  least  one  separation  of  about  four
months after March 2020. She has two teenage children and one adult child, all of whom
still live  with  her.  Between 2010  and  2011,  and  in  2013,  she  attended  community  and
state colleges but did not earn a degree. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 31)
Applicant did not disclose  any adverse financial information  as she  was required
to   do   in  e-QIP   Section   26   (Financial   Record).  As   part  of   the   ensuing   background
investigation,  government investigators obtained  two  credit  reports (CR)  that documented
all  of the  debts alleged  in  the  SOR.  On  January  28,  2020,  Applicant  was interviewed  about
her  finances  by   a   government  investigator.   The   summary  of  that  interview  further
documents the  debts alleged  in  the  SOR. A  CR obtained  in November 2022  documents
the  debts at SOR 1.f  and  1.e. (GX 1  –  5)  Applicant’s exhibits consist of an  unexecuted
U.S. Department of Education  “Income-Driven  Repayment (IDR)  Plan  Request” (AX  A),
and  copies  of email  correspondence  between  Applicant and  a  credit repair  firm  she  used
in 2021  (AX B).
Applicant has been unemployed at least four times since 2009, the longest such
period being between 2009 and 2013, when she had to leave work to care for her elderly
mother, who could not afford to obtain skilled nursing assistance. Most recently, she was
unemployed for about five months before she started working for her current employer.
Most of the time when she has worked, she either has had employer-provided medical
insurance or was able to qualify for Medicaid. When she was out of work, she had to rely
on  her  husband’s  Medicaid;  however,  during  their  separations,  which  were  not
documented through the courts, she was not able to use his Medicaid. According to her
testimony,  the  state  in  which  she  lives  requires  a  married  person  to  show  a  legal
separation to qualify for public assistance, such as Medicaid and food stamps. (GX 1; GX
2; Tr. 31 – 34, 48 – 50)
Applicant obtained the student loans alleged in SOR 1.g  –  1.k to fund tuition for
her college studies. When she was interviewed by a government investigator in January
2020, she acknowledged that those accounts became delinquent around 2017, and that
she was relying on the diversion of her federal income tax refunds to help pay down her
student loans. However, she testified that she has not filed a federal income tax return for
the past three years on advice of her tax preparer. Thus, she has not received refunds
for those years that could be applied to her student loans. According to the most recent
CR available, she now has a single student loan account for $23,369, roughly the same
as the total of the student loans alleged at SOR 1.g – 1.k. The account was opened in
October 2021 and is not listed as delinquent or past-due; however, there are no payments
reflected for that account. Applicant testified she first addressed her student loans about
four years ago. In September or October 2022, she submitted an IDR Plan Request to
the Department of Education. She has not yet received a response to her request, and
she has not otherwise made any loan payments. (GX 2 – 5; AX A; Tr. 35 – 40, 44 – 45)
Applicant’s medical debts are for services she received at times when she  had no
medical insurance.  She  has not made  any  payments directly to  those  creditors.  In  mid-
2021,  she  worked   with   a   credit  repair   firm   and   made   two   payments  through   them.
However, after less than  six months she  stopped  using  them  because  she  did not see
any progress in either addressing  her debts or cleaning  up  her credit history. (GX 2; AX
B; Tr. 42  –  43)
Applicant has not made any payments on the commercial debts alleged at SOR
1.e, 1.f, 1.n, and 1.o. As to SOR 1.e, she testified that she does not recognize that creditor;
however, during her PSI, she identified it as a loan (original amount of $497) that became
delinquent in 2016 when she was out of work. (GX 2)
Applicant attributes her financial problems to a combination of life events, such as
her unstable marriage and periods of unemployment, and her poor financial management
in the past. She testified that she understands the importance of resolving her debts, but
she is not presently able to do so. She lives “check to check” and cannot afford to make
any payments to her creditors. Recent credit information shows she incurred a past-due
cellphone bill because her adult son failed to pay an account she opened for him using
her credit. In February 2022, she co-signed an auto  loan for her husband with a $618
monthly  payment  that  became  past  due  by at  least  one  month  as  of  November  2022.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 5; Tr. 46 – 47)
