In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  all  16  delinquent  accounts  totaling
$130,670. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.p.) Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of
fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence of record, I make the following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 47 years old. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy in April 1995. He was active
duty and served as an electrician’s mate until January 1999, when he received a general
discharge under honorable conditions for a personality disorder. He maintained a DOD
security clearance during his military service without any security incidents. He married
in January 2002, and he has a son and daughter, ages 12 and 20. In April 2022, he and
his  wife  separated  while  their  divorce  is  pending.  He  has  worked  for  a  government
contractor for over 20 years, and his duties include ensuring the security of the company’s
electronic  medical  records  infrastructure  and  information  technology  (IT)  systems.  His
annual  salary  for  the  past  ten  years  has  been  greater  than  $135,000.  He  requires  a
position of trust to perform his employment duties. (Tr. 25-30, 39, 87-89; GE 1; AE Q, AE
R, AE S, AE T, AE U, AE BBB)
Financial Considerations
Applicant  experienced  health  issues  beginning  in  2011,  and  he  lost  60  pounds
within six months. He also suffered from intense headaches. After a medical screening
detected no signs of cancer, he was prescribed different medications that did not help his
condition.  He  saw  a  psychiatrist  in  about  late  2011,  and  he  was  prescribed  Abilify,  a
psychotropic  medication  used,  in  part,  to  treat  symptoms  of  severe  depression  and
anxiety. He testified at the hearing that he felt amazingly better on this medication, and
he quickly became a completely different person. For example, he has a fear of public
speaking, but while on this medication, he volunteered to give presentations on behalf of
the company, speaking in front of thousands of people. (Tr. 30-39)
Applicant testified at the hearing that his financial problems can be attributed to the
medication’s  side-effect,  which put him into a manic state. It also affected his memory
from about late 2011 to at least April 2013. He stated that he felt like he was intoxicated
during this period. He had always been a frugal person, but while he was taking Abilify,
he started purchasing broken guns and computer equipment. He had great aspirations to
start a new business where he would fix these broken items and resell them for a profit
on  his  website.  He  also  purchased  several  gifts  for  his  wife  and  children  without  any
consideration of how he was going to pay for these purchases. (Tr. 39-44, 46-47; AE C,
AE D, AE E)
Applicant gave another example of a poor financial decision he made while under
the influence of Abilify. In about 2012, he went with his wife to a tattoo parlor, and he soon
became friends with the employees. He noticed their computer system was antiquated,
and he offered to update their computer system. He spent approximately $20,000 on their
new system, for which the owner of the tattoo parlor provided some small payments, but
the payments were not nearly enough to cover his expenses. The owner also gave him a
free tattoo. Applicant provided documented medical studies of the drug, Abilify, to support
his claim that this drug has put thousands of other users into a manic state, which is one
of its side-effects. (Tr. 44-47)
In  April  2013,  while  Applicant  was  off  work  and  recovering  from  surgery,  he
realized for the first time that he was in serious financial trouble. He panicked, stopped
taking his prescribed medications, and he tried to develop a plan to pay his maxed-out
credit cards. He met with a bankruptcy attorney, but he eventually decided against filing
for bankruptcy. He decided he would pay back his creditors on his own, and his top priority
was  to  pay  his  tax  debt  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS).  He  always  filed  his
income tax returns timely, but he was unable to pay his $18,142 in taxes due for tax year
(TY) 2012, and $13,264 in taxes for TY 2013. (SOR ¶¶ 1.m and 1.o.) He made several
payments to the IRS, and in late 2020, he took out a 401(K) loan and used the proceeds
to  pay  the  remainder  of  the  tax  debts.  He  provided  copies  of  his  tax  transcripts.  The
outstanding tax debts for TYs 2012 and 2013 are fully resolved. (Tr. 54-66, 82-84, 96-97,
111; AE O, AE P, AE WW)
SOR ¶¶ 1.n and 1.p. allege Applicant is indebted to his state tax department in the
amount of $3,296 for TY 2012, and $2,396 for TY 2013. He made several payments to
the  state  tax  authority,  and  then  he  took  out  a  401(K)  loan  in  late  2020  and  used  the
proceeds to pay the remainder of the tax debts. The outstanding tax debts for TYs 2012
and 2013 are fully resolved. (Tr. 82-84; AE XX)
Applicant received a FORM 1099-C from a credit card bank creditor for tax year
2022. The SOR alleged he was indebted to this creditor in the amount of $39,285. (SOR
¶ 1.a. Note: SOR ¶ 1.c. is a duplicate allegation.) The 1099-C is a cancellation of the debt,
and he is required to  report the  creditor’s loss  of $45,275  as income when he files his
2022 Federal and state income tax returns. Applicant intends to be compliant with this
requirement when he files his 2022 income tax returns. This debt has been resolved. (Tr.
68-71, 73; AE RR)
SOR  ¶  1.b.  alleges  Applicant  is  delinquent  in  the  amount  of  $27,755,  for  a
consumer credit card account. This creditor garnished his wages in the amount of about
$2,000 per month until the amount was paid in full. This account has been resolved. (Tr.
71-73; AE SS)
SOR ¶ 1.d. alleges that Applicant is indebted to a collection agency in the amount
of $2,932. Applicant was unable to determine the original creditor or contact information
for this account. After the hearing, Applicant submitted documentation of contact with the
creditor.  Since  this  account  was  disputed,  an  internal  process  was  initiated  and  the
account  was  locked  until  March  27,  2023,  so  the  dispute  could  be  processed.  It  is
Applicant’s intent to settle or pay this account if he is responsible for it. This account has
not been resolved. (Tr. 74-75; AE G, AE H, AE I, AE J, AE LL)
SOR ¶  1.e. alleges that Applicant is indebted  to  a  credit card  bank creditor in the
amount  of  $1,789. After the  hearing, Applicant  submitted  documentation  of  a  Form  1099-
C in the  amount of $1,318. The  1099-C is a  cancellation  of the  debt,  and  he  is required
to  report the  creditor’s loss as income  when  he  files his 2022  Federal and  state  income
tax returns. Applicant intends to  be  compliant with  this requirement when  he  files his 2022
income tax returns. This debt has been  resolved. (Tr. 75, 77-79; AE  MMM)
SOR ¶ 1.f. alleges that Applicant is indebted to a consumer credit card creditor in
the  amount  of  $1,449.  Applicant  was  unable  to  determine  the  third-party  collector’s
contact information for this account, as the creditor has since sold this account. After the
hearing,  Applicant  submitted  documentation  that  an  agreed  upon  settlement  in  the
amount  of  $1,087  was  reached  between  the  parties.  Applicant  paid  one-third  of  the
settlement of $363 on March 14, 2023. He is required to make the remaining payment(s)
by June 9, 2023. This account is being resolved. (Tr. 75, 77-79; AE NNN)
SOR ¶ 1.g. alleges that Applicant is indebted to a  collection agency for a credit
card debt that was referred for collection in the amount of $840. Applicant was unable to
determine the third-party collector’s contact information for this account, as the creditor
has since sold this account. After the hearing, Applicant provided documentation that the
account has been settled and shows a $0 balance. This account has been resolved. (Tr.
75, 77-79; AE OOO)
SOR ¶ 1.h. alleges that Applicant is indebted to a credit card bank creditor in the
amount  of  $638.  Applicant  was  unable  to  determine  the  third-party  collector’s  contact
information for this account, as the creditor has since sold this account. After the hearing,
Applicant  provided  documentation  that  the  account  has  been  settled  and  shows  a  $0
balance. This account has been resolved. (Tr. 75, 77-79; AE PPP)
SOR ¶ 1.i. alleges that Applicant is indebted to a collection agency for a credit card
debt  that  was  referred  for  collection  in  the  amount  of  $128.  Applicant  was  unable  to
determine the third-party collector’s contact information for this account, as the creditor
has since sold this account. This creditor is not listed on his current credit report. Once
he can determine this information, it is his intention to pay this debt. This account has not
been resolved. (Tr. 75, 77-80)
SOR ¶  1.j. alleges that Applicant is indebted  to  a  collection  agency for a  credit  card
debt   that  was  referred   for  collection   in  the   amount   of   $4,950.   A   default   judgment   was
entered  against  Applicant.  This creditor garnished  his wages until the  amount was paid
in full  and the  judgment was  satisfied  in  July 2020. This debt  has  been  resolved. (Tr. 75-
76, 80;  AE UU)
SOR  ¶ 1.k. alleges  that Applicant is indebted  to a  collection agency  for a credit
card debt that was referred for collection in the amount of $590. Applicant was unable to
determine the third-party collector’s contact information for this account,  as the creditor
has since sold this account. This creditor is not listed on his current credit report. Once
he can determine this information, it is his intention to pay this debt.  After the hearing,
Applicant  provided  documentation  of  his  multiple  efforts  to  contact the  creditor,  but  no
communication has yet been established. This account has not been resolved. (Tr. 76,
81; AE RRR)
SOR  ¶  1.l.  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  collection  agency  for  a  cable
service  utility  company  in  the  amount  of  $482.  Applicant  discovered  this  amount  was
related  to  cable  equipment  that  was  not  returned  after  he  stopped  cable  services.
Applicant testified that he had returned the cable equipment to a drop-off location. After
the  hearing,  Applicant  provided  documentation  that  the  account  has  been  settled  and
shows a $0 balance. This account has been resolved. (Tr. 81-82; AE SSS)
Applicant was asked during the hearing what steps he has taken to prevent his
finances from accumulating into a large, unmanageable liability again. He stated if he is
ever prescribed medication in the future, he would research the medication carefully to
see the potential side-effects. He also said that the stress and his time-consuming efforts
to resolve his outstanding accounts is an experience he does not want to repeat. He has
not participated in financial counseling. (Tr. 86-87; AE M, AE N)
After  the  hearing,  Applicant  provided  documentation  that  verified  he  paid  other
delinquent  creditors  after  April  2013  that  were  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  provided
documentation verifying that he paid approximately $45,000 from 2014 through 2018, to
seven  creditors.  Most  of  these  payments  came  from  wage  garnishments.  Applicant
testified that he did not protest any garnishments because he owed the creditor the money
and it was easier to have the money taken directly from his pay than set up payments.
Out  of  the  16  delinquent  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  totaling  $130,670,  all  but  three
accounts  have  been  resolved,  or  are  currently  being  resolved.  The  three  remaining
delinquent debts total $3,650, and it is Applicant’s intention to resolve these accounts if
he is found to be responsible for them. (AE EEE, AE FFF, AE GGG, AE HHH, AE III, AE
JJJ and AE KKK.)
Character Evidence
Three witnesses testified at the hearing and described Applicant as dependable,
well-informed,  and  responsible.  Applicant  also  provided  copies  of  his  past  employee
performance evaluations from his current employer.  He has never received a negative
rating  during  his  20-year  career.  He  received  praising  remarks  from  several  character
references,  to  include  he  is  extremely  hard  working  and  thorough.  Applicant  is  a
professional, a team player, and his work ethic and passion displayed on the job make
him  a  key  asset  to  any  team.  Applicant  also  submitted  several  awards  and  special
recognitions  he  received  from  his  employer  over  the  years  for  his  outstanding
contributions. Applicant volunteered for a program that invited high school students to his
place  of  employment.  This  allowed  the  students  the  opportunity  to  work  alongside  IT
professionals. Applicant was a participant and mentor to some students. (AE HH, AE II,
AE JJ, AE KK, AE LL, AE MM, AE NN, AE OO, AE PP)
