Applicant was born in Iraq and is 43 years old. He has never married and has no
children.  He  received  a  high  school  diploma  in  Iraq  in  1997  and  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree in Iraq in 2002. In 2003, he was drafted into the Iraqi army. The Iraq War started
shortly thereafter, and he served for 22 days before the war ended with the defeat of the
Iraqi army and the overthrow of the Saddam Hussein government (Hussein Regime). He
worked as a linguist for the U.S. military in Iraq in 2008-2009. In 2010, at the age of 35,
he left his family behind and immigrated by himself to the United States. He had only one
relative in the U.S., a cousin of his mother, and no friends. He became a naturalized U.S.
citizen in 2015. He relinquished his Iraqi citizenship in 2016. He then worked as a linguist
for the  U.S. military in Jordan  in  2016-2017. He presently has  a  job  opportunity  to  work
for  the   U.S.  Army  in  Kuwait  as  a   linguist.  He  is  seeking   national  security  eligibility  in
connection  with  this employment.  He is  a  first-time  applicant  for  a  clearance.  (Tr. at 13-
16, 22, 24,  29, 43-45, 49; GE 1, Sections  2, 9, 12, 17,  18.)
The   SOR  alleged   that   Applicant  has   five   family  members  who   are  citizens   and
residents of Iraq:  his mother (SOR ¶ 1.a), a  brother (SOR ¶ 1.b), a  sister (SOR ¶ 1.c), a
sister-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.d), and  an  uncle  (SOR ¶ 1.e). The  SOR alleged  that  his brother
works for the  Iraqi Ministry of Oil as a  mechanical engineer.  (SOR ¶ 1.b.) His  sister is
alleged  to  work for the  Iraqi Ministry of Construction  as a  Chief Engineer Assistant.  (SOR
¶ 1.c.) His  sister-in-law is alleged  to  work for the  Ministry of Oil  as a  Chief Engineer.  (SOR
¶ 1.d.)  The  SOR further alleged  that his uncle  served  in the  Iraqi Ministry of Defense  as
a  colonel.  (SOR ¶ 1.e.)  The  Government also alleged  that Applicant will  inherit properties
in Iraq.  One  of  the  properties has a  value  of  approximately  U.S. $500,000.  (SOR ¶ 1.e.)
In his Answer, Applicant admitted  each of the SOR allegations.
As noted, the  Government amended  the  SOR before the  hearing  date  to  add  an
allegation  under Guideline  E.  In  SOR ¶  2.a, the  Amendment  alleged  that  Applicant  was
terminated  by Company A  in about  January 2018  “for being  rude  and  abusive  to  locally
hired  support staff  and  other  employees.” The  Amendment further alleged  that  he  refused
to  sign  termination  paperwork, went  Absent  without  Leave,  and  failed  to  demobilize at a
U.S. Army base  in the  United  States  in  accordance  with  company policy. Applicant  denied
the  allegation in the Amendment Answer.
Paragraph 1  - Guideline B,  Foreign Influence
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a
clearance  because  he  has  contacts  and  property  interests  in  Iraq  that  may  create  a
divided allegiance or a conflict of interest, and be a national security concern. His contacts
and property interests also potentially create a risk that Applicant may be manipulated or
induced  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  organization,  or  government  in  a  way
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure or coercion by
a foreign interest.
At the hearing, Applicant described his relationships with the five family members
and the family properties identified in the SOR.
1.a: At the time of the hearing, Applicant was in Iraq taking care of his mother, who
had recently had a foot amputated due to illness. His siblings were unable to take care of
her because they have full-time jobs and families, and have no free time to do so. None
of Applicant’s family members, including his mother, know that he is applying for a DoD
security  clearance.  After  becoming  a  U.S.  Citizen  in  2015,  Applicant  sponsored  his
mother  to  become  a  resident  alien,  which  status  was  granted  in  February  2017.  If
Applicant  returns to the  United States  without a  clearance, he testified  that his mother
would return with him once she is able to travel. If Applicant is granted a clearance and
deploys to Kuwait, he is uncertain whether his mother would relocate to the United States
at that point because she would be alone. (Tr. at 13-14, 17, 18-19, 21, 25-27, 47; AE J;
AE K; AE K.)
1.b:  Applicant and his brother do not have a close relationship. When Applicant is
outside of Iraq, he only speaks with his brother once every six months. His brother does
not know what Applicant does as a linguist. During his current stay in Iraq, Applicant sees
his brother occasionally when Applicant needs help taking their mother to see her doctor.
He does not see his brother otherwise.  His brother has been working as a mechanical
engineer  for  the  Iraqi  Ministry  of  Oil  since  before  2003,  when  the  U.S.  and  its  allies
deposed  Hussein  Regime.  His  brother has  never been  a  member of  the  Ba’ath  Party.
Applicant does not see his brother on holidays when he is in Iraq. (Tr. at 17-18, 26-27,
49-50.)
1.c: The above description of Applicant’s relationship with his brother applies to his
relationship with his sister, except she works for the Ministry of Construction as a chief
engineer assistant. Applicant sees his sister less frequently than he sees his brother. (Tr.
at 18-19, 26-27.)
1.d:   Applicant’s  sister-in-law  is  the  wife  of  his  brother.  Applicant  has  no  contact
with her. She works as a civil engineer for the Iraqi Ministry of Oil. (Tr. at 19, 28.)
1.e:  Applicant’s uncle was a colonel in the Iraqi Ministry of Defense and retired in
1989.  Applicant  has  no  contact  with  him.  He  last  saw  his  uncle  in  2013-2014  when
Applicant’s father was sick. His uncle served in the Iraqi Air Force. (Tr. at 19-20, 30-31.)
1.f:   When  Applicant’s  father  died  in  2015,  Applicant’s  mother  inherited  her
husband’s property, which includes a building with four apartments. She also inherited
the family home. The apartment building has an estimated value of about U.S. $500,000;
and the home is worth about U.S. $300,000. Applicant and his two siblings will inherit the
mother’s  properties  when  she dies. Applicant  is unwilling  to go  through the paperwork
involved  in  claiming  his share of his mother’s estate. He  has no  intention  of asking  his
brother and sister to share one third of their inheritance with him. He explained that when
he immigrated to the United States in 2010, he cut all of his ties to Iraq and now wants
nothing to do with the country, his siblings, or the family property there, even though the
family properties have a significant value. His attorney suggested that there are serious
Iraqi governmental restrictions on removing funds from  that country that would impede
Applicant, as a U.S. citizen, from transfering funds out of Iraq if he were to liquidate his
one-third share of the properties. (Tr. at 20, 22-23, 31-33, 48.)
Paragraph 2  –  Guideline E, Personal Conduct
Applicant  denies  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  2.a.  The  allegation  is  based  upon  a
termination letter from Company A addressed to Applicant (GE 4) in which Company A
accused Applicant of being rude and abusive to the local workers in Country X during his
deployment  there  in  2016-2017.  He  claimed  that  this  was  just  an  excuse  used  by  his
employer to  remove  him  from  his job.  He  explained  that  his problem  with  Company  A
began  at  a  staff  meeting  with  a  U.S.  Army  officer  who  distributed  a  form  regarding
Company A’s ethics and treatment of its linguists to be answered anonymously. One of
the linguists spoke openly and praised Company A and his supervisor. Applicant raised
his hand and said that he and others do not share that opinion. He then had a private
conversation  with  the  officer  and  spoke  negatively  about  how  Company  A  treated  its
linguists. (Tr. at 36-37; Amendment Answer.)
Later  in  December  2017,  Applicant’s  supervisor  received  a  call  from  Applicant
about his comments to the Army officer and sent Applicant an email stating that the U.S.
Army asked for his removal for being rude to  local staff members. Applicant discussed
his removal with his Army point of contact. The contact was surprised and denied that this
came  from  Army.  Applicant  was  subsequently  advised  that  his  removal  order  came
directly from his employer and that the Army could do nothing to help him. He was advised
that he would be transferred to Kuwait in three days. He arrived at the airport in Kuwait
and no one was there to meet him. He had no directions as to where to go. After six hours
of waiting in the airport, he reached a supervisor by email and the supervisor told him to
take a bus to a U.S. base in Kuwait and wait for instructions. He had sent his bags to
Company  A’s  offices  in  Kuwait,  and  they  were  never  delivered  to  him  at  the  transient
housing at the base. He kept asking representatives of Company A what they planned to
do  with  him,  and  he  was  told  that  they  would  let  him  know.  (Tr.  37-41;  Amendment
Answer.)
While he was in Kuwait, Applicant’s brother called him and told him he needed to
come to Iraq because their mother required immediate surgery and no one in the family
could  take  care  of  her.  When  he  spoke  to  Company  A  about  his  need  for  a  four-day
emergency leave, he was told that a U.S. Army officer would need to approve his request.
Time passed without a response. Applicant felt that it was important for his mother that
he be in Iraq for a few days to help with her care. He advised his employer that he was
leaving for Iraq for a brief trip to care for his mother and would return. When he got to
Iraq, he received a text message from his employer asking where he was. He responded
that he was in Iraq as he had advised. He received a reply stating that he was fired, and
he was instructed to turn in his badge. He sent his CAC to his employer. His mother’s
health worsened, and he stayed with her in Iraq. When she recovered from her surgery
in 2018, Applicant and his mother returned to the United States.  His mother eventually
travelled back to Iraq and Applicant joined her in December 2021, when her health again
required his assistance. (Tr. at 41-44; Amendment Answer.)
Mitigation and Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant testified with sincerity that at the start of the coalition’s war to overthrow
the Hussein Regime in 2003, he felt that he was seeing the beginning of an important
historical change, or in his words “the light at the end of the tunnel.” Prior to that war, the
future  of  the  Iraqi  people  was  uncertain.  After  the  war,  he  was  pleased  to  have  the
opportunity to work as a linguist for the U.S. Army in 2008, to help his country transition
from  dictatorship  to democracy and a  better life  for its  citizens.  Over time, he became
disillusioned that the Iraqi people themselves were creating new problems both against
the  U.S.  Government’s  efforts  to  create  a  functioning  government  and  society,  and
against  each  other  in  religious  strife.  He  felt  unsafe  and  unhappy.  His  disillusionment
ultimately led him to leave his family and the country of his birth to emigrate to the United
States in 2010. (Tr. at 34-35; AE Q.)
Before  immigrating,  Applicant  worked  for  Company  A  as  a  linguist  for  the  U.S.
Army  in  Iraq  during  the  period  August  2008  through  September  2009.  In  that  role,  he
would accompany U.S. troops on missions outside of their compound and risk his life as
an unarmed linguist. He also translated sensitive military and police records for U.S. and
Iraqi officials, and acted as an interpreter for military transition teams. (Tr. at 23-24; AE
D; AE G.)
After immigrating, he worked in the United States in at least three jobs in the period
2012  to  2015.  Applicant  worked  for  Company  A  in  a  second  deployment,  this  time  in
Country X, during the period September 2016 to January 2018. In that position, he worked
with  U.S.  Army  training  teams  as  part  of  an  operational  engagement  program  training
Country X police. His duties included translation work with the trainees and keeping local
civilians out of harm’s way during live-fire operations. The commanding officer wrote, in
a  Memorandum  for  Record,  that  Applicant  “performed  exceptionally  well  as  a  linguist
during  Entry  Control  Point  training”  and  “contributed  to  [building  a]  strong  relationship
between the [Country X’s forces] and the U.S. forces.” (AE E, AE F.)
Applicant  was issued a  badge to enter his base  in  Iraq and a  CAC to enter the
base in Country X where he lived and worked. He never had any security issues. During
his  work  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Iraq  and  Country  X,  or  at  any  time  thereafter,  he  never
discussed his work as a contract linguist for the U.S. Army with any family members. No
one in his family knows that he is seeking a DoD security clearance. (Tr. at 18, 23-24,
31.)
Iraq
Applicant has significant contacts with Iraq. Accordingly, it is appropriate to look at
the current conditions in that country.  Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic. Its
most  recent  parliamentary  elections  were  in  October  2021.  They  were  generally
considered free and fair, and an improvement over the prior elections in 2018.
U.S. citizens in Iraq  are  at high  risk of violence  directed  against  them. The  U.S.
Department  of  State’s  Travel Advisory for Iraq  urges U.S.  citizens not to  travel  to  Iraq  due
to  terrorism, kidnapping, armed  conflict, and  civil unrest. According  to  a  February 2022
assessment  by  the   Office  of  the   Director  of  National  Intelligence,  Iranian-supported
proxies  are  capable  of   launching   attacks   against   U.S.  forces   and   persons   in  Iraq   and
Syria. Iran  remains a  problematic  actor across the  region  with  its backing  of  Iraqi Shia
militias, which are the primary threat to U.S. personnel in Iraq. Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS) is a designated terrorist organization and is active in Syria and near the Iraq
border. Also, ISIS leaders remain committed to their vision of building a self-styled global
caliphate headquartered in Iraq and Syria and are working to rebuild its capabilities.
ISIS and its associated terrorist groups indiscriminately commit attacks and violent
atrocities in Iraq despite improved Iraqi government control. Although ISIS maintained its
capability  to  conduct  deadly  terrorist  attacks  in  Iraq,  these  attacks  resulted  in  fewer
casualties in 2020 than in previous recent years.
Significant  human  rights  issues  exist  in  Iraq.  They  range  from  unlawful  and
arbitrary  killings,  including  extrajudicial  killings  by  the  Iraqi  government  and  forced
disappearances  by  the  government,  to  serious  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  the
media and serious government corruption.
The  United  States  maintains  vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on
diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and  security  issues  in  accordance  with  the  U.S.-Iraq
Strategic Framework Agreement. The Agreement reflects the important relationship and
common goals the two countries share.
