Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.b  and  he  denied  SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.b.  He  is  52
years old. He was born in Ethiopia, where he obtained an associate degree in 1990 and
he married his first spouse in 2004. He emigrated to the United States in 2008, became
a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2013, and was issued a U.S. passport in 2014. He divorced
his first spouse in 2014, remarried in Ethiopia in 2015, and divorced in 2021. (Items 1-3;
FORM Response)
As  of  his  July  2022  response  to  interrogatories,  Applicant’s  girlfriend  since
approximately  2015  is  a  36-year-old,  Ethiopian-born,  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  with
whom  he  has three  minor  children.  He  previously owned  a home  in  the  United  States
from 2010 to 2014, and he has lived with his sister and her spouse since 2018. He has
volunteered  as  a  priest  at  his  church.  He  has  worked  as  a  part-time  bus  driver  for
county  public  schools  since  February  2018.  He  also  worked  as  a  bus  driver  for  his
employer,  a  DOD  contractor,  since  December  2018.  He  has  never  held  a  security
clearance. (Items 1-3; FORM Response)
Applicant’s father and mother are deceased. His 54-year-old brother, his 49-year-
old  sister-in-law,  and  their  4-year-old  child  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Ethiopia.  His
brother works as a salesman and is not affiliated with a foreign government or military.
Applicant  has  weekly  contact  with  his  brother.  After  the  birth  of  his  brother’s  child,
Applicant  sent  his  brother  $150  to  $200  two  to  three  times  as  a  gift.  He  traveled  to
Ethiopia in 2015 and 2017 to visit his then-spouse, and he again traveled there in 2018
to visit his father. He used his U.S. passport to travel there. He saw his brother and his
brother’s family during each of these trips. He has not since traveled to Ethiopia. (Items
2-3)
Applicant’s  48-year-old  sister,  born  in  Ethiopia,  is  a  U.S.  citizen  and  resident.
She is also a bus driver for county public schools. As noted above, Applicant lives with
her  and  her  spouse,  and  he  contributes  to  their  rent.  Applicant  expects  to  marry  his
girlfriend  and  the  mother  of  his  children.  She  previously  worked  at  a  beauty  salon  but
was  unemployed  as  of  his  response  to  interrogatories.  He  provides  her  with  financial
support of $1,000 monthly. (Items 2-3)
Applicant  disclosed  information  about  his  ex-spouses,  girlfriend,  parents,  sister,
and then-parents-in-law on his October 2020  security  clearance  application (SCA).  He
did  not  disclose,  in  response  to  Section  18  of  his  SCA  that  inquired  about  relatives,
information  about  his  brother  in  Ethiopia.  The  report  of  Applicant’s  October  20,  2020,
background interview reflects that after the background investigator (BI) asked Applicant
to verify information about his parents and then-parents-in-law, BI asked Applicant if he
had any other relatives that he was required to list on his SCA, and Applicant indicated
that he did not. The report reflects that BI asked if Applicant’s negative response meant
that it was just Applicant and his sister, and Applicant responded in the affirmative. The
report reflects  that  after  BI  verified  information  about  Applicant’s  listed  foreign contact,
which was his then-spouse, BI asked Applicant if he had any other foreign contacts and
Applicant  disclosed  his  brother  in  Ethiopia.  He  then  disclosed  information  about  his
brother  and  his  brother’s  family  in  Ethiopia  during  the  remainder  of  that  background
interview. He continued to disclose such information during four subsequent interviews
in  October  2020  and  November  2020,  as  well  as  in  his  response  to  interrogatories,
Answer, and FORM Response. (Items 1-3; Form Response)
Applicant  maintained  that  he did  not  intentionally  falsify  his SCA  or his October
20,  2020,  background  interview  by  failing  to  disclose  information  about  his  brother  in
Ethiopia. He indicated that he did not list his brother on his SCA because he found the
SCA  confusing,  as  he  did  not  understand  what  foreign  contacts  meant,  and  he  was
focused  on  disclosing  his  family  in  the  United  States.  He  also  indicated  that  he  was
under  time  restraints, and  he did  not have his brother’s  contact information. He  stated
that his omission was a misunderstanding. (Items 1-3; Form Response)
Ethiopia
for  an  ethnic-based
Ethiopia’s  constitution  provides
federal  system  of
government. Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed leads the Prosperity Party, which controls the
government.  On  October  4,  2021,  newly  elected  members  of  parliament  took  their
seats. The elections took place against a backdrop of grave instability, including inter-
ethnic and inter-communal violence and an electoral process that was not free or fair
for  all  citizens,  although  observers  assessed  the  result  generally  reflected  the  will  of
most citizens.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  travel  advisory  for  Ethiopia  is  at  “Level  3:
Reconsider  Travel,”  due  to  armed  conflict,  civil  unrest,  communications  disruptions,
crime, and the potential for terrorism and kidnapping in border areas. It advises against
travel  to  the  Tigray  region  and  border with Eritrea  due  to  armed  conflict;  the  Amhara
Region  due  to  armed  conflict  and  civil  unrest;  the  Afar  Region  due  to  armed  conflict
and civil unrest; the border area with Somalia due to potential for terrorism, kidnapping,
and landmines; border areas with Sudan and South Sudan due to crime, kidnapping,
civil  unrest,  and  ongoing  clashes  between  various  armed  groups;  border  areas  with
Kenya due to potential for terrorism and ethnically motivated violence; and the Wollega
Zones of the Oromia Region due to violence and civil unrest. The U.S. Department of
State  has  assessed  Addis  Ababa  as  being  a  “CRITICAL”  threat  location  for  crime
directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests.
The  continuing  threat of  al-Shabaab (AS) and  ISIS  emanating  from  Somalia  is
Ethiopia’s core terrorism concern and the focal point of its security apparatus and the
Ethiopian  National  Defense  Force’s  counterterrorism  efforts.  In  late  2020,  Ethiopian
security  officials  announced  the  arrest  of  AS  and  ISIS  members accused  of  planning
attacks in Addis Ababa and other parts of Ethiopia. Terrorist organizations continue to
plan  terrorist  attacks  against  U.S.  citizens,  Western  targets,  and  interests  in  East
Africa.
The  U.S.  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (ODNI)  noted  that  the
conflict  in  Ethiopia’s  Tigray  region  since  November 2020  has  worsened  humanitarian
conditions and resulted in at least 2.1 million internally displaced persons. The ongoing
conflict  has  also  led  to  refugees  fleeing  to  neighboring  countries,  which  could
destabilize  the  region  resulting  in  additional  migrants  seeking  travel  to  Europe.  The
ODNI  assessed  that in  2022, East  Africa will see  new bouts of  conflict  in  the  coming
year as the region becomes increasingly strained by the civil war in Ethiopia and other
regional conflicts.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that  the  most  significant  human  rights
issues in Ethiopia included: unlawful or arbitrary killings, including extrajudicial killings
by  the  government;  forced  disappearance  by  the  government;  torture  and  cases  of
cruel,  inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment  by the government; harsh and
life-threatening  prison  conditions;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  political  prisoners  or
detainees;  serious  abuses  in  a  conflict,  including  reportedly  unlawful  or  widespread
civilian harm, enforced disappearances or abductions, torture and physical abuses or
punishments; reports of unlawful recruitment or use of child soldiers by militia groups;
serious  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  media,  including  violence  or  threats  of
violence  against  journalists,  unjustified  arrests  of  journalists,  censorship,  and  the
existence of criminal libel and slander laws; serious  restrictions on internet  freedoms;
substantial  interference  with  the  freedom  of  peaceful  assembly;  serious  government
for  gender-based  violence;
corruption;  lack  of  investigation  and  accountability
trafficking  in  persons;  crimes  involving  violence  or  threats  of  violence  targeting
members  of  racial  or  ethnic  minority  groups;  and  the  existence  or  use  of  laws
criminalizing same-sex sexual conduct.
