Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a-2.d, with explanations, and denied SOR
¶  1.b.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant is 39 years old. He is divorced (married from November 2006 to June
2010) and has one child. He works for a civilian  security firm. He is also a member of
his  state’s  Army  National  Guard  (NG).  He  joined  the  NG  in  August  2022.  He
equivocated as to whether he disclosed the information about his Marine Corps actions
described below to the NG upon his enlistment. He was awarded an associate’s degree
in  2014  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2020.  He  is  also  pursuing  a  master’s  degree.  (Tr.
19-21, 65-69; GE 1, 7; AE N; SOR answer)
Applicant  previously  served  in  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps.  He  was  on  active  duty
from 2005 to 2013, and then served in the Marine Reserve from 2013 to 2018. He was
out of the military from February 2018 until he enlisted in the NG in August 2022. While
on  active  duty,  he  deployed  to  both  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  where  he  earned  Combat
Action  Ribbons  for  service  in  those  locations.  He  achieved  the  rank  of  sergeant  (E-5)
and  was  honorably  discharged.  He  received  a  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)
disability  rating  of  90%,  primarily  for  his  diagnosis  of  Post-Traumatic  Stress  Disorder
(PTSD). (Tr. 20-22, 27-28; AE F)
The SOR alleged, under Guideline E, that Applicant falsified six military orders by
forging  the  authorizing  military  official’s  signature  and  submitted  those  orders  to  two
employers  in  order  to  receive  paid  military  leave.  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  It  also  alleged  that  his
actions,  described  above,  caused  his  termination  by  one  of  those  employers.  (SOR  ¶
1.b).  I  find  that  this  allegation  is  duplicitous  with  SOR  ¶  1.a  in  that  the  underlying
conduct is the same. SOR ¶ 1.b just alleges the consequences of that conduct. I find in
favor of Applicant regarding SOR ¶ 1.b.
Under  Guideline  J,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  December  2015,  Applicant  was
issued a written warning from his employer and placed on probation for using excessive
force  in  performing  his  duties  (SOR  ¶  2.a);  that  in  February  2016,  Applicant  was
counseled  for missing  movement  (Uniform Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  Article  87)
when  he  failed  to  have  a  proper  uniform  for  duty  (SOR  ¶  2.b);  that  in  July  2017,
Applicant  was  counseled  for  a  violation  of  UCMJ  Article  107,  for  providing  false
statements  to  the  Marine  Corps  with  regard  to  his  forged  military  orders  described
above  (SOR  ¶  2.c);  and  that  in  January  2018,  Applicant  was  charged  with  a  felony
offense of tampering with records by submitting the forged military orders to his civilian
employers, as described above (SOR ¶ 2.d).
Applicant  admitted  in his statements  to  a background  investigator in  June 2017
and  November  2018,  in  his  January  2022  SOR  answer,  and  during  his  hearing
testimony, that at various times from 2015 through 2016, he forged six military training
orders  representing  that  he  would  be  performing  military  training  with  his  Marine
Reserve unit and submitted those orders to two civilian employers he worked for at the
time  so  that  he  could  financially  benefit  by  classifying  that  time  as  military  leave,  for
which he was paid. He did not perform military duties during the days indicated on the
forged orders. One civilian employer was a state agency and the other employer was a
county  sheriff’s  department.  He  submitted  five  forged  orders  to  the  state  agency  and
one order to the sheriff’s department. (Tr. 23; GE 2; SOR answer)
He accomplished the forgeries in the following manner:
1. He searched  Google  for examples of Marine Corp training orders;
2.  Having   found   the   orders,   he   supplied   his   name   as  the   subject   of  the   order,
although   he   fraudulently   listed   his  rank  as  either  a   first  lieutenant  or  captain,
when  he was actually a sergeant;
3. He  forged  or fraudulently  supplied  the  name  of  the  order authorizing  official  on
the  orders;
4. He  submitted  these  forged  orders  five  times to  his  state  agency  employer and
once  to  his sheriff’s department employer;
5. GE 6 contains  three  examples  of the  orders Applicant  admitted  forging;
6.   He   benefitted   financially  by   receiving   “military  leave”   from   his  civilian
employers  for  those   days  and   he   did  not   perform   any   military  duties  for  his
Marine  Reserve unit for the days indicated on the  forged orders;
7. He did not pay back either employer for the military leave benefit he received.
He did not disclose his actions until after he was caught through his employer’s
investigation. (Tr. 31-34, 40-44-51, 69-70; GE 5-6)
Applicant justified his forging of the orders because he believed both his civilian
employers were not properly paying employees for overtime hours they worked. He was
also having financial difficulties during that time frame arising from his spousal and child
support  obligations,  which  were  about  $2,000  per  month.  (Tr.  24-25,  41-42;  SOR
answer)
At some point in 2016, his sheriff’s department became suspicious of Applicant’s
military orders. He was investigated and charged by the state with the felony charge of
tampering with a record in January 2018. The charge was dismissed in April 2018 and
an  expunction  order  was  issued  in  September  2020.  In  July  2017,  Applicant’s  Marine
commander was made aware of the forged orders and disciplined Applicant by issuing
him  a  formal  written  letter  of  counseling  for  making  false  official  statements  in
connection  with  the  orders  he  forged,  in  violation  of  UCMJ  Article  107.  He  quit
performing Marine Reserve duties shortly after this counseling. (Tr. 61, 64; GE 3, 5, 7;
AE E; SOR answer)
In  December  2015,  Applicant  was  given  a  written  warning  by  his  state-agency
employer  and  placed  on  probation  because  he  used  excessive  force  on  an  inmate  by
spraying  the  inmate  with  a  full  can  of  pepper  spray  while  he  was  inside  his  cell.
Applicant explained his action was in self-defense because he believed the inmate was
trying  to  secure  a  tool  that  was  potentially  dangerous  as  Applicant  was  attempting  to
serve the inmate his meal. The inmate was trying to access the tool through the cell tray
opening  slot.  Applicant  was  not  criminally  charged  with  an  offense.  (Tr.  73-74;  GE  2;
SOR answer)
In  February 2016,  Applicant  reported  for his Marine  Reserve duty weekend.  He
forgot his physical training (PT) uniform. His home was located approximately five hours
from his duty  location. He  informed his first sergeant about forgetting his PT gear and
was given two options. He could go back home and retrieve his PT gear and miss a day
of  drill  (and  the  payment  for  it),  or  he  could  stay  and  be  formally  counseled  for  not
showing  up  for  drill  with  the  proper  uniform,  in  violation  of  UCMJ  Article  87.  Applicant
chose  the  latter  option  and  was  counseled.  He  admitted  this  conduct.  (Tr.  30;  GE  2;
SOR Answer)
Applicant presented awards and commendations from his Marine Corps service;
performance  evaluations  from  his  civilian  employer  in  2022  and  2021,  which  reflect
overall evaluations of “exceeding standards;” letters documenting his community service
as  a  volunteer;  and  a  letter  of  appreciation  from  his  Marine  commander  in  2009
recognizing Applicant’s outstanding contribution to the battalion. (AE F-M, O)
Any misconduct described above that was not specifically alleged in the SOR will
not be used for disqualification purposes. It may be used to assess credibility, determine
the applicability of mitigating conditions, and in making my whole-person determination.
