Applicant is a 52-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2019.  He  has  an  associate  degree  earned  in  2001,  a
bachelor’s degree earned in 2005, and a master’s degree earned in 2013. He is married
with  two  children  and  a  stepchild.  (Transcript  (Tr.)  at  11,  22-25,  55,  105;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, F)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1991  until  he  was
honorably  discharged  in  1999.  He  reported  that  he  served  in  the  Iraq  War  when  he
deployed  with  his  unit  to  Kuwait  in  1992  as  a  deterrent  to  Iraq’s  aggressive  behavior.
(Tr. at 11-21, 106-108, 114-115; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE A-C)
Applicant deployed to Bosnia in 1994 as part of a NATO force. He reported that
he  rendered  first  aid  to  his  platoon  leader  who  was  shot  by  a  sniper.  In  a  separate
incident,  a  mine  exploded  as  his  platoon  sergeant  attempted  to  disarm  it,  killing  the
platoon  sergeant.  The  mine  wounded  Applicant  and  knocked  him  unconscious.  He
reported that he was treated for his wounds and a concussion and sent back to work.
He was shot on another occasion. His protective vest saved him, but he suffered broken
ribs. Applicant stated that he was told that he was not eligible for a Purple Heart for his
injuries  because  they  were  inflicted  in  a  peacekeeping  operation.  Finally,  he  reported
that he stepped on a mine, but it did not explode. His command sergeant major came to
him  and  wrapped  him  in  protective  explosive  gear  and  heroically  remained  with  him
while EOD attempted to disarm the mine. The mine did not have a fuse, which is why it
did not detonate. (Tr. at 16-22, 108-110; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE A-C)
During   his  military  service,   Applicant  received   the   NATO  Medal,  three   Army
Commendation   Medals,
the   Armed   Forces
Expeditionary Medal, the  Armed  Forces Service  Medal, and  other badges and  ribbons.
He   is  rated   as  100%   disabled   by   the   Department  of  Veterans   Affairs   for  among   other
things,  post-traumatic  stress disorder (PTSD)  and  traumatic  brain  injury. (Tr. at 76,  105-
106, 109; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE  B, C)
four  Army  Achievement   Medals,
Applicant worked for a defense contractor and then as a civilian employee of the
Army after his discharge. He transferred to a new location in 2008. He was counseled in
March 2009 for “inappropriate behavior of either making suggestive comments to other
female  employees  or  making  them  feel  uncomfortable  with  his  comments.”  (Tr.  at  12,
22; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3; AE A)
In January 2010,  Applicant received a notification of a proposed suspension for
14  days  for  sexual  harassment  and  causing  a  disturbance.  In  April  2010,  Applicant
received  another  notification  of  a  proposed  suspension  for  sexual  harassment,
inappropriate  touching,  and  false  statements.  This  notice  was  issued  by  a  different
supervisor and superseded the January 2010 notice. (GE 3) The alleged conduct was:
a.  On   several occasions  over the   past  several months  you   have   initiated
sexual banter in the presence  of your coworkers  including  Ms. [A], Ms. [B],
and Ms. [C]. On one of these occasions you have made statements to the
effect of “the only temple [you] would ever enter would be someone else’s
wife.” On another occasion when someone stated something is really hard
you  responded  to  the  group  “that’s  what  she  said.”  On  another  occasion
you stated to Ms. [A] while helping with an IG inspection “do you need me
to take care of you in another room.” After that incident you were told that
your conduct was not appropriate and asked to stop.
b.  On  or  about  14   December   2009,  without  justification   or  invitation,  you
sat on  Ms. [A’s]  lap  in  an  attempt to  “get her excited.”  During  this incident
you were asked to stop.
c.  After  the   14   December   2009   incident,  you   discussed   a   recent
vasectomy with  Ms. [A], stating  to  her that you  “only have  10  more  times
to ejaculate”  to be  able to have sex, and  asking  her, “Are you  going to  help
me?”   You   were   told   after   this  incident  that  this  behavior  was  not
appreciated and  asked to stop.  (GE 3)
In late June 2010, Applicant and his command reached a settlement agreement
for  the  suspension  in  which  Applicant  “agreed  to  accept  a  five  day  suspension  (5
consecutive calendar days) from his position, two of which days [were] duty/work days
and the other three days of which [were] non-duty/work days.” The command agreed to
remove the suspension documents from Applicant’s Official Personnel File (OPF) within
two years if there were no further infractions, “thereby purging the OPF of this evidence
of an adverse personnel action.”  The suspension took place in August 2010. Applicant
transferred  to  a  different  job  on  the  same  installation  in  December  2011.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 3; AE L)
Applicant’s supervisor prepared a letter of counseling in about September 2013.
The letter is included in a later command investigation (see below). The letter is undated
and  not  signed  by  the  supervisor  or  Applicant.  It  reported  that  Applicant  made
inappropriate “[c]omments and gestures (licking).” (GE 3) While unsigned, the letter was
a factor in the investigation discussed below.
Applicant provided a statement in July 2015 in which he admitted that he took a
test  for  another  employee  who  was  having  difficulty  passing  the  test.  He  used  the
employee’s  common  access  card  (CAC)  and  personal  identification  number  (PIN)  to
take the test. (GE 4) He wrote:
I  felt  pressured   to   assist,  but  didn’t  have   time   to   sit  down  with   him   to   go
through  each  module  and  provide  mentorship. I informed  him  that I  didn’t
have  time  to help  until after all my current field tests have  been  completed.
[Employee]  then   stated   he   was  running   out   of  time   in   order  to   meet   the
course   deadline.   I   told   him   to   request   an   extension,  and   I   would   then   be
able  to assist in a  mentor role  maybe  by mid-September 2015. [Employee]
stated   that  he   already   was  on   an   extension  and   need[ed]  this completed
ASAP. I told   [Employee]  that   I  could   only   do   that  on   the   weekend  on  my
own  time,   but  I  prefer  to   wait   until  after   my   field  tests  were  completed.
[Employee]  again   explained   he   couldn’t  wait,  so   I   felt  pressured   into   just
“doing”  it myself on  the weekend.  (GE 4)
Applicant provided a different version at his hearing. He stated that his supervisor
told him to help the other employee pass the test. He admitted that he helped the other
employee  while  the  employee  took  the  test,  but  he  did  not  take  the  test  for  him.  He
stated  that  he  did  not  remember  the  2015  statement,  and  he  believes  the  statement
may have been altered. (Tr. at 72-75, 103-105, 111-113; Applicant’s response to SOR) I
did not find his testimony on this and other matters credible. I find that the statement is
the  more  accurate  description  of  what  occurred,  and  that  Applicant  used  another
employee’s CAC and PIN to take a test for him.
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
March  2017.  Under  Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities,  he  reported  the  job  that
ended  in  December  2011.  He  answered  “No”  to  the  following  question,  “For  this
employment,  in  the  last  seven  (7)  years  have  you  received  a  written  warning,  been
officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such
as a violation of security policy?” He failed to report the five-day suspension in late June
or July 2010. (GE 1)
Applicant  denied  intentionally  providing  false  information  on  the  SF  86.  He
explained  that  he  did  not  believe  he  had  to  report  the  suspension  because  in
accordance with the settlement agreement, it had been officially removed from his OPF.
He stated that he asked the chief of security on his installation  how he should answer
the  question,  and  he  was  told  to  not  report  the  suspension.  (Tr.  at  38-42,  76-77;
Applicant’s response to SOR)
the
investigation  was
In  December  2018,  a  Commander’s  Inquiry  was  ordered  into  allegations  of
misconduct by Applicant. A supplemental order was issued in January 2019. The report
of
in  February  2019.  The  commander  and  the
commander’s  attorney-advisor  reviewed  the  investigation  and  found  the  investigation
legally  sufficient,  the  findings  and  recommendations  supported  by  sufficient  evidence,
and  the  recommendations  consistent  with  the  findings.  The  commander  summarized
parts of the investigation:
issued
The   investigating   officer,   Dr.  [A],   interviewed   a   total  of  12   women   about
unwanted  attention. Three  of the  women  confirmed  stating  that [Applicant]
had   given   unwanted   attention   to   them.  The   attention   ranges   from
comments about his sex life  to  asking  them  personal questions about their
sex life,  and  even  soliciting  sex. Six of the  women  did  not encounter any
unwanted   attention
they
[Applicant].   Two
encountered   inappropriate   comments  from   [Applicant]   but   did   not   find
them   offensive,   and   one   said  that   if  there  was   any  inappropriate
comments by  [Applicant], “she  would  tell  [Applicant]  that he  was  going  too
far”   and   he   would  stop.  Dr.  [A]  found   that  [Applicant’s]  behavior  violated
AR  690-12,  Appendix   D,  prohibiting   all   forms  of  harassments,   including
told  Dr.
from
that
[A]
sexual  harassment.   Dr.  [A]  also   found   that  [Applicant’s]   conduct  was
pervasive  enough as to create a  hostile  work environment.
Regarding   the   allegation   about  potential  threats  in   the   workplace,   Dr.  [A]
found   that   [Applicant]  had   told   numerous  employees  that  he   has   PTSD.
Mr.  [B]  a   co-worker,  also  told  Dr.  [A]  that  [Applicant]   had   talked   to   him
openly  about  active   shooter  on   numerous   occasions.   .   .  .  Although
[Applicant]  denies ever telling  anyone  that he has PTSD, Dr. [A] found  his
denial   not  credible.   Dr.  [A’s]   finding   is  supported   by   statements   he   has
from witnesses he interviewed.
Dr.  [A]  also   investigated   allegations  by   [Applicant]   against   Mr.  [B].   The
allegations  are  that  Mr.  [B]  stabbed,  threatened  to   beat  up,  intimidated
[Applicant]; and shoved  a  Mr. [C] during  a  verbal altercation. Dr. [A]  found
that   the   alleged   stabbing   was   an   accident   which   at  the   time   [Applicant]
refused   to   seek  medical  attention   or  to   file   a   police   report.  Dr.  [A]  also
interviewed  Mr. [C] who  admitted  that Mr. [B]  pushed  him  out of his  space
when he approached  Mr. [B]. This was confirmed  by another witness. Both
parties  reported   the   incident  to   their   supervisors  who   felt  that  no   further
action  was  required.  As to  the  alleged  verbal intimidation,  Dr.  [A] found  no
evidence   that  the   alleged   statement  was  made   at  [Applicant].  [Applicant]
conceded  that he did not know who  the statement was directed at.  (GE 3)
Except for some minor admissions, Applicant has consistently denied committing
any  of  the  alleged  workplace  misconduct  that  led  to  his  2010  suspension  and  as
reflected  in  the  2018  Commander’s  Inquiry.  He  stated  that  he  believes  multiple
individuals  lied,  and  that  they  were  either  biased  against  him,  coerced  into  lying,  or
offered some compensation such as a promotion for lying. He also felt that some other
employees’  misconduct  against  him  was  “swept  under  the  rug.”  He  submitted
documents and letters in support of his position. (Tr. at 27-38, 42-72, 75-103, 117-118;
Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  2;  AE  H-K,  M,  N,  P)  I  considered  Applicant’s
documents  and  his  testimony,  but  I  did  not  find  his  testimony  credible.  I  adopt  the
information  in  the  April  2010  notification  of  a proposed  suspension  and  the  findings  in
the  Commander’s  Inquiry,  as  reviewed  by  the  commander  and  the  commander’s
attorney-advisor.
Applicant resigned from his position and received a deferred retirement in March
2019. He was barred from entering the installation the same day based on allegations of
unwanted sexual attention. (Tr. at 53-55; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 5; AE A,
O)
Applicant  stated  that  he  has  learned  from  the  experience,  and  that  “horseplay
and banter and joking [are] not appropriate  in the work environment.”  He also pledged
to  be  more  diligent  when  completing  security  clearance  applications.  (Tr.  at  116-117;
Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance and strong moral character. He is praised for his trustworthiness, respect,
kindness,  patriotism,  professionalism,  courtesy,  honesty,  responsibility,  loyalty,  work
ethic,  dedication,  reliability,  judgment,  leadership,  willingness  and  ability  to  protect
classified information, and integrity. (GE 2; AE D, E, G, H)
