Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  54  years  old.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2002.
Applicant  was married  in  1992  and  divorced  in  1994.  She  remarried  in  2010,  and  she
does  not  have  any  children.  She  was  formerly  employed  by  a  government  contractor
from December 2009 through September 2014 as a background investigator. When she
completed  the  SCA  in  April  2016,  she  was  applying  for  a  position  as  a  background
investigator  with  a  different  government  contractor.  Her  employment  was  conditional
upon the issuance of her DOD security clearance. At the time of the hearing, Applicant
was employed as a co-manager for a grocery store chain. (GE 1; Tr. 14, 23-27)
Personal Conduct
In   December 2009,  Applicant   was  employed   as a   background   investigator for a
government  contractor.  SOR   allegation   ¶   1.a   alleges  that  in   August  2014,  her
employment  with the government contractor was suspended following  integrity  concerns
related   to   her  work  as  a   background   investigator.  The   U.S.  Office   of  Personnel
Management  Integrity  Assurance   (OPM-IA)  initiated   a   review   of  her  work  and
determined   that   there  were   multiple   integrity  concerns,   including   several  missed
questions  during   interviews,  inaccurate   associations,   and   a   failure  to   cover  issues,
including   foreign   contacts  and   financial  accounts.  OPM-IA  also  determined   that   she
falsified   six  investigative   entries.   Applicant’s  employer  agreed   to   rework  and   revise
multiple   investigations.   Applicant denied   that   she   was  suspended   from   work. She   also
denied  ever falsifying  her investigative  work  or  that her employer ever  notified her  that
there  were  any  concerns about the  quality  of her investigations.  (GE  2,  3,  and  4;  Tr. 14-
16, 21-22)
SOR  allegation  ¶  1.b  alleges  that  in  September  2014,  Applicant’s  employment
was  terminated  by  the  government  contractor  following  concerns  about  the  quality  of
her investigation work product, violation of company policy, and her failure to abide by
OPM  policies  and  procedures.  Applicant  claimed  that  her  employer  told  her  over  the
phone  that  she  was  being  laid  off  “due  to  lack  of  work  and  that  [the  government
contractor  they  were  supporting]  had  lost  the  government  contract.”  Her  employment
ended  immediately.  She  claimed  that  she  requested  her  personnel  record  from  her
employer, but they denied her request. (GE 2, 3 and 4; Tr. 14-17)
The Government submitted an OPM Integrity Assurance Proposal dated January
14,  2016.  The  report  stated  that  after  a  concern  was  brought  to  the  attention  of  the
government  contractor,  it  was  determined  that  Applicant  had  not  conducted  records
checks  for  two  subjects.  The  government  contractor  notified  OPM  of  this  finding  on
August 4, 2014. OPM-IA initiated a five-case sampling of work completed by Applicant.
There  were  58  sources  listed  for  five  cases.  Of  these  sources,  it  was  determined  44
were  validated,  12  were  undetermined,  and  two  were  falsified.  There  were  numerous
deficiencies  found  in  her  investigative  work  product.  Based  on  the  investigation,
Applicant’s  employment  with  the  government  contractor  was  suspended  on  August  5,
2014.  Following  an  in-depth  investigation  of  other  completed  cases,  six  instances  of
falsification  were  discovered,  and  Applicant  was  terminated  from  employment  on
September 16, 2014. She is ineligible for rehire. (GE 3 and 4)
The  Government  also  submitted  a  September  2014  letter  that  was  mailed  to
Applicant by the government contractor. The letter stated:
[Government contractor]  has concluded  serious failures to  abide  by [OPM]
policies  and   procedures  have   been   discovered   with   your   conduct.   In
addition,  [government  contractor]  has  serious  concerns   about   the   quality
of  your
investigative   products.   Accordingly,  your  employment  with
[government contractor]  will  be  involuntarily  terminated  for cause  effective
the  date of this communication.  (GE 4)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant intentionally falsified her April 2016 SCA in response
to  Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities.  She  listed  her  employment  dates  with  her
former government contractor employer, and she was required to report if within the last
seven  years,  had  she  “received  a  written  warning,  been  officially  reprimanded,
suspended,  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a  violations  of
security policy?” She answered “No” to all these questions and deliberately failed to list
her  August  2014  suspension  by  her  employer  for  failure  to  follow  policies  and
procedures. (GE 1)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  Applicant  intentionally  falsified  her  April  2016  SCA  in
response to Section 13A – Employment Activities. She listed her employment dates with
her former government contractor employer, and she was required to report her reason
for leaving this employment, to include:  “Have you been fired, quit after being told you
would be fired, left by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct,
or  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance?”  She
answered  “No”  to  all  of  these  questions  and  listed  her  reason  for  leaving  this
employment  was  due  to  “contract  ended.”  She  deliberately  failed  to  list  that  she  was
terminated by her employer for cause in September 2014. (GE 1)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  that  Applicant  intentionally  lied  to  the  investigator during her
background  interviews  in  May  2018  and  August  2018,  when  she  told  the  investigator
that she had been laid off by her former employer in September 2014  for lack of work
and due to loss of a government contract. (GE 2)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  her  sworn  response  to  interrogatories
signed by her in January 2020, in response to Question 3: “At any time, while employed
by  [government  contractor]  as  a  Background  Investigator  from  December  2009  to
September  2014,  were  you  counseled  or  did  you  receive  a  written  or  verbal  warning,
official  reprimand,  suspension,  discipline,  or  remedial  training  for  suspected  of  actual
violation  of  [government  contractor]  or  OPM  policy?”  She  deliberately  falsified
information by answering this question with a “No” response. (GE 2)
SOR  ¶¶   1.g   and   1.i   allege   that   Applicant  falsified   her  sworn   response   to
interrogatories signed  by her  in January 2020, in  response  to  Question  4: “At  any time,
while  employed   by  [government  contractor]  as  a   Background   Investigator  from
December  2009   to   September  2014,  were   you   the   subject  of  an   investigation   for
suspected  or actual violation  of [government  contractor] or OPM  policy?”; and  Question
8: “…did you  violate  [government contractor] or OPM  policy?”;  She  deliberately falsified
information  by answering  both  questions  with  a “No” response.  (GE  2)
SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  Applicant  falsified  her  sworn  response  to  interrogatories
signed by her in January 2020, in response to Question 5: “At any time, while employed
by  [government  contractor]  as  a  Background  Investigator  from  December  2009  to
September  2014,  did  you  certify  or  enter  data,  results  of  records  review  or  other
investigation actions as work performed by you in violation of [government contractor] or
OPM  policy?”  She  deliberately  falsified  information  by  answering  this  question  with  a
“No” response. (GE 2)
fired  by
this  employer.  The
I  questioned  the  Applicant  about  a  previous  job  she  had  with  a  federal  law
enforcement  agency  in  2008.  During  her  2018  background  interview,  she  denied  that
she  had  been
investigator  confronted  her  with
documentation from her former employer that  confirmed that she had been terminated
in  2008.  (GE  2)  During  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  she  never  knew  she  was
terminated  by  this  former employer.  She admitted  that  the agency’s  legal counsel and
the special agent in charge were present when she was told that she was being let go
because  she  was  still  in  her  probationary  period,  and  her  unit  already  had  enough
employees. She stated, “and that was why I was being terminated.” (Emphasis added)
(Tr. 18-20)
