Applicant is a 56-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He spent two years
at  a  U.S.  military  service  academy  until  he  was  honorably  discharged  for  medical
reasons. He has a bachelor’s degree earned in 1989. He is married with four children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 44-45; GE 1, 2; AE Q)
Applicant  became  the  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  of  a  company  (hereinafter
“Company”) in 2016. Terms of his employment included that he could be terminated for
cause  for  a  number  of  reasons,  including  “commission  of  any  other  act  that  is,  in  the
Board’s good faith judgment, reasonably likely to bring you, the Company or its affiliates
into  disgrace  or  public  disrepute  or  materially  harm  its  or  their  goodwill  or  business
reputation or that of it’s or their employees, officers, directors or customers,” and “failure
to  obtain  or  maintain  all  security  clearances  required  for  the  performance  of  your
duties.”  He  held  security  clearances  in  the  past,  but  it  is  unclear  if  he  had  one  at  the
Company before he was granted a clearance in 2017. (Tr. at 29, 45-46; GE 4)
Applicant  is  a longtime  photographer. He sometimes  used a  pseudonym for his
photography  and for  social media accounts.  He  did  photo  shoots of  women  who  were
scantily clad or in their underwear. He stated that he did not do nude photography, the
photos were essentially what could be found on the cover of a legitimate magazine, and
the  women  wore  more  clothes  than  what  would  be  found  on  the  average  beach.  He
stated that his wife was aware that he did the shoots and even helped arrange some of
them. (Tr. at 27-29, 52-54, 65-67; AE A, C, D, R)
In about 2015, Applicant met a woman (Ms. A) online. They interacted online and
met in person twice in 2017, once in the United States while he was on a business trip
and once in the United Kingdom  (UK). He was in the UK with his family. He stayed in
the  UK  for  work  after  his  family  left,  and  he  met  Ms.  A.  He  agreed  to  a  photography
session  with  her  that  was  supposed  to  include  a  male  model,  but  the  male  model
cancelled. He took about 30 to 40 shots. He stated that she took off her top at one point,
but  she  was  covered  by  a  sheet  or  blanket.  He  denied  that  it  was  an  “erotic  photo
shoot.”  He uploaded the photos to a drop box account and shared the link with Ms. A.
He stated that a few weeks later, per her request, he deleted all images he had of her.
(Tr. at 28, 32, 47-52, 55-58; GE 3, 14; AE A, K)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  an  online  “affair”  with  Ms.  A  that  included
“sexting,”  but  he  denied  that  there  was  ever  any  physical  contact.  He  stated  that  he
broke off the relationship in 2017 after a family member passed away, and he became
recommitted to his family. He told his wife about the affair, and he thought that was the
end of it. (Tr. at 31-32, 41-42, 50, 54, 67-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE A,
O, W)
Applicant  received  a  demand  letter  from  Ms.  A’s  attorney  in  October  2017.  It
included a proposed settlement agreement in which Applicant would pay a set amount if
any  of  her  images  appear  online.  Applicant’s  wife  described  Ms.  A’s  actions  as
threatening,  and  that  they  “felt  bullied  and  it  was  bordering  on blackmail.”  He  retained
an attorney who responded to the demand letter. He refused the settlement agreement.
The  attorney  wrote  that  against  his  advice,  Applicant  was  “willing  to  pay  a  de  minimis
amount  to  Ms.  [A]  in  exchange  for  her  promise  never  to  contact  him  again  and  to
likewise delete any of his photos in  her possession.” Applicant  stated  that they  did  not
hear back from Ms. A, and he thought the matter was over. (Tr. at 54-60; GE 9; AE O)
Ms. A’s attorney contacted Applicant’s employer in 2018. The attorney stated that
Applicant  pursued  a  relationship  with  Ms.  A  for  several  years  before  their  relationship
that  culminated  in  sex  during  a  business  trip  to  the  United  Kingdom.  The  attorney
indicated  that  Applicant  took  a  naked  picture  and  other  intimate  pictures  of  Ms.  A
without  her  consent.  The  attorney  indicated  that  Applicant  used  the  company’s
electronic devices to communicate with Ms. A, and that he told her that he was doing so
at home, at work, and while traveling for business. The attorney stated that Ms. A was
not seeking monetary compensation, but that she wanted “to make sure [Applicant] has
none of her images and that none of her images are saved  elsewhere (for example on
[Company’s] computers or phone).”1 (GE 10)
The attorney also referenced that Applicant posed as a photographer to convince
young  women  to  undress  for  him,  and  that  he  distributed  the  materials  without  the
individuals’  consent.  The  attorney  indicated  that  Applicant  told  Ms.  A  that  underage
women had lied to him about their age. (GE 10)
The  Company  retained  a  professional  to  conduct  a  forensic  examination  of
Applicant’s  work  phone  and  laptop.  Numerous  adult  and  pornographic  websites  were
apparently accessed through the phone. Nothing of significance was accessed through
the  laptop.  A  picture  of  a  clothed  man  (Applicant)  taking  a  picture  through  a  mirror  of
himself and a woman in her underwear (not Ms. A and not Applicant’s wife) were found
through  the  phone.  Applicant  testified  that  the  photo  was  taken  in  2014,  and  his  wife
was aware that he did the shoot, and his wife may have helped with the styling. (Tr. at
52-54; GE 11, 12, 15)
Applicant  asserted  that  at  the  Company’s  request,  when  he  first  started  at  the
Company,  his  personal  phone  and  account  were  synched  to  his  work  phone,  which
made  everything  he  did  on  his  personal  devices  available  through  his  work  phone.
Without getting too much into the technical realm, that statement is accepted. He stated
that  he  never  used  the  work  phone  to  view  anything  inappropriate,  and  that  all  of  the
searches were conducted on his personal phone and may have been done by his son.
(Tr. at 29-31, 63-65; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE A, F-H, S)
1  As indicated in the Statement of the Case, I am not considering any matter in the letter for the truth of
any controverted issue. See Directive ¶ E3.1.22.
Applicant was advised by the Company in late October 2018  that the  Company
received  a  letter  from  Ms.  A’s  attorney  alleging  that  he  had  an  intimate  sexual
relationship with Ms. A. Applicant denied the allegation. He stated that photography was
a hobby, but not erotic photography or photography of a sexual nature, rather, he took
pictures of musical bands and other non-sexual photography. He indicated that he first
met  Ms.  A  in  a  hotel  bar  during  a  business  trip  in  May  2017.  She  approached  him
because she noticed his camera. They engaged in conversation, kept in virtual contact,
and agreed to meet in the United Kingdom when they both separately were going to be
there. While there, he took about 30 photos of her, which did not involve nudity, but she
did  remove  her top.  They  had  lunch  afterwards.  He  stated  that  he  had  engaged  in  no
other behavior of a similar nature. (Tr. at 33, 60-61; GE 13, 14)
The  Company  reduced  Applicant’s  verbal  statement  to  writing.  The  Company
indicated  that  the  allegations  potentially  implicated  the  Company  and  Applicant’s
security clearance and requested a sworn affidavit by early November 2018.  Applicant
provided an affidavit in which he wrote:
Since  1985, photography is a  hobby of mine, but not erotic photography  or
photography   of   a   sexual  nature,   rather,  I   take   photos   of   family,  friends,
musical bands and  other non-sexual photography.
*
*
*
I  misspoke   during   our   conversation   in   [city].   In   the   moment,   I  was
shocked,  rattled,   and   embarrassed   to   find   myself  being   specifically
questioned   about  whether  I   had   sex  with   a   woman   in   a   hotel  room   by  a
member  of  the   Board.   I  had   not  met  [Ms.   A]  before   the   meeting   at   the
[hotel].  However, our occasional virtual  relationship  extended  back  before
I  joined  [Company].  She  knew I was in  [city] and  knew to  identify me  at the
hotel bar because  I had my camera with me.
*
*
*
I have engaged in no other behavior of a similar nature. (GE 14)
Applicant stated in the affidavit that many of the photos found on the phone were taken
by his son. (GE 14)
The  Board  of  Directors  convened  and  determined  that  there  was  a  basis  to
terminate  Applicant’s  employment  “for  cause”  due  to  lack  of  truthfulness  during  the
investigative process and because his behavior could jeopardize his ability to maintain a
security clearance. A termination letter was prepared, which stated that the conduct that
formed the basis of the termination included:
•   Engaging   in   the   creation   of  erotic  photography  and   related   activities  (together,
the “Activities”);
•   making   false  statements  to   the   Company  during   the   course  of   a   Company
investigation   concerning   the   extent  and   nature  of   and   other  details  concerning
the Activities;
•   submission   to   the   Company  of  a   sworn  affidavit  containing   false   statements
concerning the  Activities;  and
•  use  of  Company  resources,  including  a  Company-issued  iPhone,  in  connection
with the Activities, in violation of Company policy. (GE 17)
On  November  26,  2018,  the  Board  met  with  Applicant  and  showed  him  the
additional information from the forensic search of the phone, at which time he admitted
to  the  behavior  and  resigned.  The  termination  letter  was  never  issued  to  Applicant
because he resigned. (Tr. at 36-40; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 18, 19; AE A, B,
E, G, L, T, V, X)
Applicant stated that he was shocked, dismayed, embarrassed, and angry when
he was first confronted by the Company, and “in the moment, [he] told them half-truths.”
He stated that he “didn’t tell them all that they wanted to know, [he] only told them parts
of what they, [he] would argue deserved to know.” Applicant asserted at his hearing that
he did not believe his resignation was because of “misconduct.” He felt it was because
he  was  “not  forthcoming”  to  the  Board.  He  stated  that  he  believes  that  if  he  was
forthcoming, he could have stayed with the Company in spite of the other issues. (Tr. at
33-35, 61, 69-71; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE A)
Applicant did not intend to stay with the Company even if issues with Ms. A and
his truthfulness never came up. His family remained in another state when he relocated
to take the CEO position. He also had another business opportunity. (Tr. at 29, 32-33;
AE A, E, O, P, Q, T, V)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
January 2021. Under Section 13A – Employment Activities, he reported the job with the
Company. He answered “No” to the following question:
For  this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the
last seven (7) years?
•   Fired
•   Quit after being  told you would be  fired
•   Left   by  mutual  agreement  following   charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct
•   Left   by  mutual  agreement
following   notice   of   unsatisfactory
performance
He wrote as the reason for leaving the job:
My  family   didn’t  relocate   to   [City  A  in   state   where   job   was  located]  and
stayed   in  [City B  in   state   where his family  lived]  when   I  took the   job   with
[Company].  Nearly  three   years  of  commuting   every  week  from   [City  B]
was  negatively  impacting   my   family  life,  especially  for  my  wife   and   two
high  school-age  daughters. I had  an  extramarital affair  during  the  first year
with  [Company]  which  I ended  in  mid-2017. My wife  is aware of this affair,
but this created  significant marital distress.  With  my  2nd  child  enlisting  in
[U.S.  military],   my  3rd   child  heading   into   her  senior   year  of  high   school,
and   my   4th   child   becoming   a   sophomore  in   HS,   in   mid-2018,   I  began
seeking   job   opportunities  in   [City  B].   In   early  November  2018,  I  had   an
agreement  in   place  to   buy   a   privately-held  company   called   [REDACTED]
and left  [Company] in December.  (GE 1)
There is nothing in the above paragraph that is clearly false. The problem is what
was  left  out.  Applicant  was  not  fired,  but  clearly  he  either  “Quit  after  being  told  you
would  be  fired”  or  “Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct.”  The  answer  to  that  question  should  have  been  “Yes.”  (Tr.  at  73-74;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant  submitted  another  SF  86  in  March  2021.  Most  of  the  SF  86  was
identical  to  the  January  2021  SF  86,  including  the  information  about  his  employment
with  the  Company,  but  there  were  some  minor  changes,  including  his  weight  and
information about his relatives.2 (GE 2)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  May  2021.  He
denied  that  he  was  terminated  from  the  Company,  which  is  correct  since  he  resigned
from the Company. He was then confronted with the inaccurate information that he was
terminated.  His  explanation  about  Ms.  A  and  his  resignation  from  the  Company  is
consistent with his testimony at his hearing. (GE 3)
Applicant submitted a third SF 86 in October 2021. He answered the Section 13A
question  appropriately,  that  he  “Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or
allegations of misconduct.” He provided details of his resignation from the Company and
his  involvement  with  Ms.  A,  but  he  did  not  add  that  he  was  “not  forthcoming”  to  the
Board of Directors. (Tr. at 39-40; AE Q)
Applicant stated that he has learned from the experience, and that in the future
he will overreport his answers on SF 86s. He  and his wife have received therapy, and
their marriage is strong. (Tr. at 43, 68, 80; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A, O)
2  The SOR did not allege that Applicant falsified this SF 86. Any matter that was not alleged in the SOR
will  not  be  used  for  disqualification  purposes.  It  may  be  used  to  assess  Applicant’s  credibility,  in  the
application of mitigating conditions, and in the whole-person analysis.
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance and strong moral character. He is praised for his responsibility, leadership,
trustworthiness, and integrity. (AE B, E, N, O)
