Applicant,  age  41,  is  unmarried  without  children.  He  received  his  high  school
diploma  in  1999.  He  received  a  network  information  systems  certification  in  2000.  He
attended  college  from  2003  through  2005  and  in  2014  without  earning  a  degree.  He
previously held a secret clearance while employed by defense contractors from August
2002 until it was deactivated in May 2012, due to a loss of jurisdiction involving a layoff in
April 2012. He remained unemployed until November 2013. He has been employed in the
same  information  technology  position  by  two  different  defense  contractors  since  June
2018.  The  secret  clearance  he  was  granted  in  June  2018  was  sponsored  by  a  prior
employer for whom he did not end up working. (GE 1; GE 2 at 8; GE 4; GE 5 at 2; GE 6;
AE G; Tr. at 17, 46, 47-48, 50-52, 120-121)
The  SOR  alleged  security  concerns  about  Applicant’s  marijuana  use  and
marijuana-related criminal charges under Guideline H, and then cross-alleged the same
concerns under Guideline  J.  In his Answer, Applicant  admitted,  in part,  and denied,  in
part, the Guideline H allegations. He did not respond to the Guideline J allegation in his
Answer, which I construed as a denial. Based on Applicant’s admissions, his testimony,
and the evidentiary record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  smoked  marijuana  in  joint  form,  with  varying  frequency,  from  1990
through  2012.  He  consumed  marijuana  in  an  edible  form  one  time  in  2013  while
unemployed. He was criminally charged with possession of marijuana in 2008, 2009, May
2011, December 2011, and 2018. He was convicted of all but the 2008 charge. Applicant
proffered inconsistent information at various times during his testimony and throughout
the  security  clearance  process  concerning  the  facts  and  circumstances  underlying  his
marijuana use and the criminal charges. (GE 1, 2, 4, 5, 6; Tr.)
2008  Charge
In September 2008, while driving home from a gun shooting range, a police officer
pulled  Applicant’s  vehicle  over  for  a  missing  license  plate.  After  smelling  marijuana
emanating from the vehicle, the police officer initiated a search of the vehicle. During the
search, the officer found a handgun under the passenger’s seat. The handgun, which was
registered to Applicant, was loaded. Applicant forgot to unload it and place it in the trunk
after leaving the range. The officer also found marijuana inside a bookbag located on the
back seat. Applicant was arrested and held in custody for three to four hours before being
released. (GE 1; GE 2 at 4, 13; GE 4; GE 5 at 3-4; GE 6)
Applicant was initially charged with (1) felony possession of marijuana with intent
to  distribute,  (2)  misdemeanor  possession  of  marijuana,  and  (3)  misdemeanor
transporting  a  handgun  in  a  vehicle.  At  some  point,  charge  (3)  was  amended  to
misdemeanor  transporting,  wearing,  or  carrying  a  handgun.  Charge  (1)  was  nolle
prosequi  in  October  2008.  In  March  2009,  charge  (2)  was  nolle  prosequi  and  he  was
found guilty of charge (3), as amended. In October 2009, he was sentenced to serve an
unspecified  number  of  days  in  jail  over  five  consecutive  weekends  and  supervised
probation  for  one  year.  Applicant  asserted  that  his  sentence  was  shortened  to  three
weekends and that his probation was also shortened by about six months. (AE A at 1-3;
AE B; GE 2 at 4, 13; GE 3; GE 5 at 4; Answer; Tr. at 56, 59, 122)
In  his  2011  eQIP,  Applicant  stated,  “I  have  learned  my  lesson,”  in  response  to
questions about this offense. In his 2017 and 2019 eQIPs, he repeated:
I  was  young   and   immature.   This  was  a   mistake   and   I   have   learned   my
lesson.  I recognize  my failures and  shortcoming’s [sic].  This does  not define
who   I  am   as  a   person   or  professional.  I  have   goals  and   want   to   be
successful.  (GE 1, 4, 6)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  asserted  that  the  marijuana  found  in  his  vehicle  “was
somebody’s else’s.” He also maintained that he had not used marijuana on the day he
was arrested. (Tr. at 151)
2009 Charge
In March 2009, while Applicant was driving home from work, a police officer pulled
his vehicle over for an inoperable taillight. After smelling the odor of marijuana emanating
from the vehicle, the officer initiated a search of the vehicle. During the search, the officer
found  what  Applicant  described  as  a  marijuana  joint  in  the  ashtray.  Applicant  was  not
arrested, but he was issued a summons to appear in court. (GE 1, GE 2 at 4; GE 4; GE
5 at 4; GE 6)
Applicant was charged with misdemeanor possession of marijuana. A court record
indicates that he pled guilty at a July 1, 2009 court appearance, during which he received
a  deferred  disposition  to  July  6,  2010,  pending  his  completion  of  a  drug  treatment
program,  100 hours of community  service, and  payment of  a $250 fine.  He  voluntarily
performed  an  additional  seven  hours  of  community  service  for  a  total  of  107  hours  in
January 2010. He completed the drug program in February 2010. (GE 3; Answer; AE A
at 5-6, 13-14; AE B)
Applicant  described  the  drug  program  as  an  outpatient  class  where  he  was
subjected to urinalysis testing. He attended group classes once or twice per week where
he was educated about drugs and the pitfalls of drug use. He completed the program in
a manner sufficient to satisfy his obligation to the court. Although he did not stop using
marijuana  immediately following his completion  from the program, he  asserted that he
began  having  better  judgment  and  becoming  more  reliable  based  on  what  he  learned
from the program. About two to three months later, he stopped using marijuana because
he wanted to better his life. (GE 2 at 4; Tr. at 65)
In his 2011 eQIP, Applicant stated, “I was immature and having fun, I have learned
my lesson,” in response to questions about this offense. In his 2017 and 2019 eQIPs, he
repeated,  “I  am  drug  free  and  more  mature.”  At  the  hearing,  he  asserted  that  the
marijuana belonged to a “coworker of mine.” (Tr. at 151; GE 1, 4, 6) He also maintained
that he had not used marijuana on the day he was arrested. (Tr. at 66).
May 2011 Charge
In May 2011, Applicant smoked marijuana, in an amount he described as half a
joint, while sitting alone and listening to the radio inside his parked vehicle in a park. At
some  point,  he  fell  asleep  and  was  awakened  by  park  police  officers  pulling  on  his
vehicle’s door handles. In response, Applicant rolled down the window of his vehicle to
speak with the officers. After observing Applicant put something in his mouth believed to
be  drugs,  one  of  the  officers  tried  to  open  Applicant’s  mouth.  In  response,  he  bit  the
officer’s finger. He was arrested and held in custody for two to three hours before being
released. (GE 1; GE 2 at 3, 12-13; GE 4; GE 5 at 3; GE 6; Tr. at 68, 69)
Applicant  was  charged  with  (1)  misdemeanor  assault  on  a  police  officer,  (2)
misdemeanor possession of marijuana, and (3) misdemeanor possession of marijuana
paraphernalia. In July 2011, he pled guilty to charge (2) for which he was sentenced to
serve  one  day  in  jail  and  fined  $50.  The  disposition  of  charges  (1)  and  (3)  was  not
indicated in the documentary evidence. However, he asserted that the officer agreed to
drop  charge  (1)  on  the  basis  that  there  had  been  a  miscommunication  and
misunderstanding of his rights. During a January 2018 security clearance interview (SI),
Applicant  admitted  that  the  officers  found  marijuana  in  the  vehicle.  However,  during
subsequent SIs in March and October 2019 and in his Answer, he maintained that the
officers did not find any marijuana. Applicant did not address charge (3). (GE 1, GE 2 at
3, 13; GE 3, 4; GE 5 at 3; GE 6; Answer; AE A at 7; Tr. at 72; AE B)
Applicant  asserted   that  he   served   his  sentence   by  spending   a   few  hours  in  a
holding  cell  on  the  day  of his conviction. (GE 2  at 3; Tr. at 69) He maintained  that he  did
not  bite  the  officer’s finger on  purpose.  (Tr. at  69) In  his 2011  eQIP,  Applicant  stated, “This
lifestyle  is behind  me  and  I have  grown up,” in  response  to questions about this offense.
In his 2017 and  2019 eQIPs, repeated:
I have  been  drug  free  for 5  years  and  much  more mature;  I understand  and
learned   from   my   failures,   shortcomings,  and   bad   experiences.  This
occurrence  does not define  who  I am  as a  person  or professional. (GE  1,  4,
6)
At  the  hearing,  after initially  denying  that  he  smoked  marijuana  the  day  he  was
arrested, Applicant admitted that he had, in fact, smoked marijuana that day. However,
he  denied  that  he  was  either  smoking  marijuana  or  in  possession  of  marijuana  in  the
vehicle at the time of his arrest. He explained:
Okay, so  they never caught me  with  possession  of marijuana, but then  when
I went  to  the  holding  cell, they  asked  me  to  make  a  statement,  and  basically
I made  this statement, you  know, saying  that I  had  marijuana, and  they said
if I made  that  statement,  that they was [sic] going  to  make  everything  go
away or they  was [sic] going  to  drop all  charges.  So, the  only reason  why I
agreed  to  possession  of marijuana, because they said they  was [sic] going
to  drop  the  assault charges and  the  possession  of marijuana  charges.  (Tr.
at 70, 73, 77, 94-95, 153)
Later during his testimony, Applicant claimed that the police report indicating that
the smell of marijuana was emanating from Applicant’s person was incorrect because,
contrary  to  his  previous  admission  during  an  October  2019  SI,  he  had  not  smoked
marijuana in the vehicle. In response to a question about where he smoked the marijuana,
he asserted “[i]t was after work so after work outside.” He denied that a marijuana smell
was emanating from his person by the time the officers approached him because he had
smoked the marijuana “probably like three hours, four hours” prior. (Tr. at 84, 153-155;
GE 2 at 3)
December 2011 Charge
In December 2011, a police officer pulled Applicant’s vehicle over after observing
him make an illegal U-turn at a red light. Due to smelling the odor of marijuana emanating
from the vehicle, the officer initiated a search of the vehicle. Applicant was arrested after
the officer found a small bag of marijuana in the vehicle, in an amount Applicant described
as equivalent to a joint. (GE 2 at 3-4, 12; GE 5 at 4; Tr. at 77)
Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  possession  of  marijuana.  In  October
2012, he pled guilty, was sentenced to one day in jail, six months unsupervised probation,
and fined $45. (AE A at 4; AE B; Tr. at 74)
In his 2017 eQIP, in response to questions about this offense, Applicant stated:
I paid a  court fine  for this charge  and  case  is  close  [sic].  I have  been  drug
free  for 5  years and  much more mature. I have  learned  my  lesson from my
failures and  shortcomings. This was my last  and  final charge. That part of
my life  is behind  me  and  doesn’t exist, I have  moved  on  and  have  goals to
be successful.  (GE 3, 4)
In his 2019 eQIP, he stated:
I paid a  court fine  for this charge  and  case  is  close  [sic].  I have  been  drug
free  for 5  years and  much more mature. I have  learned  my  lesson from my
failures  and   shortcomings.  That  part  of  my  life   is  behind   me   and   doesn’t
exist, I have moved on and have goals to be  successful. (GE 1)
At the hearing, Applicant asserted that the marijuana found in his vehicle did not
belong  to  him,  and  he  denied  that  he  smoked  marijuana  that  day.  He  attributed  the
officer’s  smell  of  marijuana  to  odor  emanating  from  the  bag  of  marijuana  found  in  the
vehicle. When asked to whom the marijuana belonged, he answered “I mean, I don’t recall
who  was  the  person.”  Then,  he  explained  that  he  had  occasionally  given  rides  to  a
coworker “like once  a  week or once  every  two weeks.” He  believed  that the  marijuana
may have belonged to his coworker. When asked for the coworker’s name, he replied, “I
don’t recall or remember.” He later stated that the marijuana belonged to his cousin. He
maintained  that  he  told  his  lawyer,  but  not  the  arresting  officer  or  the  court,  that  the
marijuana did not belong to him. He stated that arresting officer did not ask whether the
marijuana belonged to him. (Tr. at 77, 80-81, 94, 156)
2018 Charge
In April 2018, while on a routine patrol, a police officer observed Applicant driving
without wearing his seatbelt. When the officer pulled  his vehicle over for a traffic stop,
Applicant immediately jumped out of the vehicle and began to reach back into the vehicle
out of the officer’s line of sight. The officer then ordered Applicant to step away from the
vehicle and to take his hands out of his pockets. During a pat down, the officer detected
a  strong odor of marijuana  emanating from Applicant’s person, at which time Applicant
admitted to the officer that he had just smoked marijuana. The officer also detected the
odor of burnt marijuana emanating from inside the vehicle. During a search of the vehicle,
the officer located a grocery bag inside an open backpack containing a clear Ziplock bag
of  marijuana.  Also  located  inside  the  backpack  was  a  small  container  of  marijuana,  a
digital scale, $113 in cash, and two empty clear plastic baggies. The marijuana had a total
weight  of  22.1  grams  and  a  street  value  of  $440.  Because  the  officer  deemed  the
presence  of  these  items  to  be  indicators  of  possession  of  marijuana  with  the  intent  to
distribute it, he arrested Applicant and transported him to be charged. (GE 7)
Applicant was charged with (1) misdemeanor possession of 10 or more grams of
marijuana and (2) felony possession of marijuana with intent to distribute. Charge (2) was
nolle prosequi in May 2018. In October 2018, Applicant pled nolo contendere to charge
(1). He was sentenced to one day in jail, with a credit of one day, and fined $45. (GE 3;
AE A at 8-12; Tr. at 88-89)
During an October 2019 SI, Applicant explained that he had been driving alone in
his vehicle on his way home from work. He asserted that the backpack, which was located
on  the  back  seat  of  the  vehicle,  belonged  to  a  coworker.  He  also  asserted  that  the
coworker had been in the vehicle prior to Applicant’s encounter with the police because
Applicant had given the coworker a ride from work to a bus stop. (GE 2 at 12; Answer)
At the hearing, Applicant reiterated that the backpack did not belong to him. He
maintained that he was wearing his seatbelt at the time he was pulled over. He denied
that, when he exited the vehicle, he either tried to retrieve something from the vehicle or
reach back into  the vehicle. He acknowledged  that he  “jumped  out of the  vehicle,” but
maintained that he only retrieved his identification from his person, not from inside of the
vehicle. He also denied that he smelled of marijuana at the time of his arrest or that he
had  smoked  marijuana  that  day.  He  opined  that  perhaps  the  officer  was  smelling  the
marijuana emanating from the backpack. He did not recall telling the officer that he had
just  smoked  marijuana.  He  asserted  that  the  police  report  was  incorrect  as  to  the
controverted facts. (Tr. at 83-85, 97, 136-137)
Applicant testified  that the  backpack belonged  to  a  coworker who  accidentally left
it in the vehicle after Applicant dropped  off the coworker “earlier that day, from work.” He
estimated  that  he  dropped  the  coworker off  at about  4:00  p.m.  or 5:00  p.m. and  that  he
was pulled  over at about 6:00  p.m.  or 7:00  p.m. He  maintained  that  he  did not  know the
backpack was  in the  vehicle  until it  was discovered  by the  officer. When  asked  for  the
coworker’s name, he  stated  “First name  was  [Person  A].  I  don’t remember  his last name.”
He  gave   Person   A   rides  “probably  once   a   month,  but   it  was  like   one   of  those   special
occasions, it doesn’t happen  regularly.” He asserted  that he  no  longer maintains contact
with Person A. (Tr. at 85-86, 157)
Later  during  the  hearing,  Applicant  disclosed  that,  at  some  point,  during  his
interaction  with  the  officer  outside  of  the  vehicle,  the  officer  told  him  that  he  smelled
marijuana emanating from the vehicle. Applicant explained that he “opened up the car”
after the officer warned that if he did not do so, he was “going to break the car window.”
He also explained that he worked with Person A daily for about six months, had given him
rides about once a month from their worksite to a transit station, and had observed him
smoke marijuana at their worksite prior to starting work “a couple of times.” Later in his
testimony, he admitted that he observed him “about once a week”. (Tr. at 134-135, 136,
139-141)
During his April 2019 and October 2019 SIs, Applicant acknowledged that he had
not disclosed his criminal charges to anyone besides his lawyer because he did not want
to  stress  anybody.  However,  he  asserted  that  he  felt  that  he  could  not  be  coerced  or
blackmailed. He maintained that he had not had any involvement with drugs since 2013
or with law enforcement since 2018. (GE 2 at 9, 13)
Marijuana Use, Frequency, and Future Intent
In his 2011 eQIP, Applicant admitted that he used marijuana while possessing a
security  clearance.  He  described  the  nature  and  frequency  of  his  marijuana  use  as
“[s]tress, special occasions, twice a month.” He explained:
I was raised  in  a  house  were  [sic] marijuana   was used.   I didn’t  know any
better  as  a   kid.  I  have   matured   and   learn   [sic]  the   long   term   effects  of
marijuana use.
He professed his intent not to use marijuana in the future and declared:
I  want  to   be   successful  in  life   and   marijuana   would  hender  [sic]   me   in
accomplishing   my  goals.  The   long   term   effects  of   marijuana   causes   [sic]
health  problems  and  I can’t accomplish  my goals if I’m  not healthy  or living.
(GE 6)
In his 2017 eQIP, Applicant admitted that he used marijuana while possessing a
security  clearance.  He  described  the  nature  and  frequency  of  his  marijuana  use  as
“[r]elieving stress, smoked once every six months.” He explained:
I was raised  in  a  house  were  [sic] marijuana   was used.   I didn’t  know any
better as a  kid. I have  matured  and  have  goals that I  want to  accomplish. I
want to be successful, provide for myself, and take care of my family.
He professed his intent not to use marijuana in the future and asserted:
I want to  be  successful. I have  goals  and  plans that  I  need  to  accomplish
and  marijuana would not help [me]  accomplish those  goals.
Again,  I want to  be  successful and  there  is no  success in doing  drugs or
[sic] under the  influence. I have  learned  my  lesson  from  prior experience
and   wrong   doings.  I’m   ready  for  a   positive   change   in  my  life   and   for  my
family. I  have  been  drug  free  for 5  years and  much  more mature to  know,
right from wrong; and  understand the outcome  regarding  drug  use.
During his 2018 SI, Applicant reiterated his intent not to use marijuana in the future. (GE
4; GE 5 at 4)
In his 2019 eQIP, Applicant admitted that he smoked marijuana while possessing
a  security  clearance  but  denied  that  he  possessed  a  clearance  when  he  consumed
marijuana in edible form in 2013. He described the nature and frequency of his marijuana
use as “[r]elieving stress, smoked once every six months.” He asserted that he consumed
the edible  only one  time  on  a  “special occasion.”  He professed his intent not to smoke
marijuana in the future and repeated verbatim the reasons he provided in his 2017 eQIP.
He  also  professed  his  intent  not  to  consume  marijuana  in  edible  form.  At  the  hearing,
Applicant stated that he obtained the edible from an individual he described as “a friend,
or  an  acquaintance  .  .  .  associate.”  When  asked  to  provide  the  individual’s  name,  he
stated,  “I  just  know him  on  the  street  as  [Person  B].” He  explained  that  Person  B  was
“actually cooking edibles, or making edibles.” He maintained that he no longer maintains
contact with Person B. (GE 4; Tr. at 98, 99-100)
During his March 2019 SI, Applicant characterized his marijuana use as occasional
and estimated the frequency of his use to be around once a year. He stated, generally,
that he whenever he was in possession of marijuana, the quantity was one joint maximum
or  about  four  grams  total.  He  also  stated  that  he  was  always  alone  when  he  used
marijuana and during each occasion that he was involved with law enforcement. He could
not  recall  how  he  obtained  the  marijuana  that  he  used.  He  asserted  that  he  was  not
dependent  on  marijuana.  He  disclosed  that  he  had  been  expelled  for  possession  of
marijuana  during  his  10th  grade  of  high  school.  He  was  able  to  return  to  school  and
earned his high school diploma as indicated above. He reported that, while unemployed
in 2013, he tested positive for marijuana use during a preemployment drug test and was
not hired by that employer. (GE 2 at 1, 3-5)
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  characterized  the  frequency  of  his marijuana  use  as  “I
may  have  consumed marijuana  2  times out of  a  year between 1990  and  2012  when I
didn’t have a clearance or [sic] employed with a government agency.” He reiterated that
drug use is incompatible with his personal and professional goals and that he learned his
lesson from “prior experience and wrong doings.” He asserted:
I have  changed  my  life  for myself and  my family. I have  been  drug  free  for
9  years and much more  mature  to  know, right  from  wrong; and  understand
the  negative  outcome regarding drug use.
At the hearing, Applicant admitted that, whenever he smoked marijuana, he did so
either by himself or, at times, with his uncle, a frequent marijuana user.  He maintained
that  he  never  exchanged  money  for  any  of  the  marijuana  he  used  because  his  uncle
supplied it to him. His uncle passed away from cancer in 2015. He attributed his uncle’s
passing with helping inform his evolved understanding of the dangers that marijuana use
posed to his health and professional goals. In response to a question about the frequency
of Applicant’s marijuana use, he stated “It probably was like once a year.” When asked to
explain the discrepancy between the twice a year he estimated in his Answer, he stated:
Because  I don't think it was  consecutively, it's not consecutively every year.
I mean  maybe  it was like, you  know, one  year I probably did it  twice.  Another
year I  probably did  it once.  So  it wasn't a  pattern as  you  could say  .  .  . I  may
have  did [sic] it one time in one  year, and two times in another year  . . . .
He also testified, “And so I may have partaked [sic], you know, a couple of times or I may
have partaked [sic] once a year or so like I said before on special occasions.”
(Tr. at 89-91, 99, 102-103, 130-131, 149, 150-151)
When  questioned  more  specifically  about  his  use  of  marijuana  in  2009,  2011,
2017, and 2018, Applicant testified that he had not smoked at all in 2009, including on
the day he was arrested in March, and that he only used marijuana one time in 2011, the
day he was arrested in May 2011. He denied using marijuana at any other time in 2011,
including the day he was arrested in December 2011. He denied using marijuana at all in
either 2017 or 2018. He asserted that his last consumption of marijuana was the edible
he ate in 2013. (Tr. at 66, 79, 82, 94-95, 97, 99, 100)
Applicant  had  the  following  exchange  with  Department  Counsel  (DC)  about  his
marijuana use while in possession of a security clearance,
DC: Now, in your responses, sir, you also stated you didn't consume any
marijuana when you had a clearance, right?
Applicant: Correct.
DC: You stated that you had a clearance between 2008 and 2011?
Applicant: Correct, 2008 to, hold on, say that again?
DC: You had a clearance between 2008 and 2011?
Applicant: Okay, yes.
DC: Right? And, you've admitted to smoking during that time period, as well.
Right? You indicated in your SOR response I admit, when you were asked
about smoking between 1990 and 2011? I mean 2012, sorry.
Applicant: So, your question again is?
DC: Sure. So you had a clearance between 2008 and 2011, right?
Applicant: Correct, correct.
DC: All right, and you've stated in your SOR response, you never smoked
or used marijuana while you held a clearance?
Applicant: I did, yes.
DC:  Okay.  And,  but  you've  also  admitted  to  smoking  between  1990  and
December 2012?
Applicant: Correct, correct.
DC: So you did smoke when you, while you held an active clearance?
Applicant: I may have, yes, I may, yes, I did probably once. (Tr. at 100-101)
During  his testimony, Applicant reiterated  that he  had  no  intent to  use  marijuana
or other drugs  in  the  future. He  denied  that he  continued  to  associate  with  any individuals
who  use  marijuana  or other drugs. When  asked   about the  last  time  he  associated  with
such  individuals, he  responded.  “Probably like  2014  or ’15, when  my uncle was  alive.” He
asserted  that  he  had  not given   a   ride  in  his   vehicle   to   “people,   coworkers, [or]   friends”
since  2018. He acknowledged  that he  still  encounters individuals who  use  marijuana  and
other drugs  in his “environment,” but   asserted  that he   is able to  distance   himself when
marijuana or other drugs are being used  around him. (Tr. at 102-103, 114)
When asked to explain how this time would be different than his previous promises
to steer clear of marijuana use and involvement with law enforcement, Applicant testified
that  he  intended  to  “be  more  selfish”  and  avoid  environments  and  persons  involving
drugs. He stated that he had no intent to give rides in his vehicle to anyone in the future.
He understood that drug use is incompatible with maintaining a security clearance. (Tr.
at 102, 145-147, 167)
10
Applicant testified that he reported his criminal charges to “most employers I did
let them know, yes.” He maintained that he never suffered any negative consequences
with his employment or lost his clearance due to his criminal charges. He acknowledged
that his employers provided him with security clearance training, including informing him
“not to partake any criminal or illegal activities.” However, he also asserted:
I wasn't  really instructed  how to  conduct myself.  Well, like  you  said, I  thought
the  clearance  mainly had  to  do  with  the  job. So  I didn't think it had  to  do  with
your outside  life, normal life, after work. So that was ignorance  on my part,
not   taking   the   clearance   into   consideration  of on   [sic]  the   job   and   how   to
conduct  yourself,  you   know,  when   you're   not  working.  But  I'm   more
knowledgeable now. And  I understand, you  know, how to  conduct myself,
you  know, either on  the  job  or off the  job  and  period  just  having  a  clearance.
So  I understand  the  severity of having  a  clearance,  yes.  (Tr. at 95, 158-159)
Whole Person
Applicant  has  resided  with  his  grandmother  all  his  life.  When  his  grandfather
passed away “in 2012 or 2009,” he became her primary caregiver. He took time off from
work to take care of her when she was sick. His mother passed away when he was five
years  old.  He  has  never  met  his  father  and  does  not  know  whether  he  is  living  or
deceased. He was raised in a hostile environment where marijuana was frequently used
and where he did not have access to positive role models. He explained, “So, of course,
I didn't see any negative aspects of it because everybody was functional.” Eventually, he
realized that he had to separate himself from that environment if he wanted to get ahead
in life, which led him to seek a “good job,” and get a clearance. (Answer; GE 5 at 1; GE 1
at 17-19, 27; Tr. at 129-133, 149).
Applicant  volunteered  for  a  Hurricane  Katrina  relief  project  from  2006  through
2008. He has volunteered for a Christmas in April program. Since 2010, he has regularly
volunteered  to  take  on  projects  for  his  church.  An  individual  from  the  program  where
Applicant  performed  the  community  service  hours  in  connection  with  his  March  2009
charge  wrote  a  letter  on  his  behalf  lauding  Applicant’s  exceptional  character  and
performance as a volunteer. The individual also stated, “I believe that this experience will
have an endless impression on [Applicant] and will teach him to follow the correct path.”
(AE G; AE A at 15)
Applicant proffered documents showing the various accolades he received about
his  exemplary  work  performance.  He  also  provided,  two  letters,  both  from  September
2022, from individuals who  praised his character and work performance. One of those
references, a friend and former coworker, stated, “I have never witnessed [Applicant] with
drugs or associated with any criminal activity.” Applicant acknowledged that none of his
references knew about his criminal arrests and convictions or his marijuana use. At some
point, he received a five-year service award for delivering outstanding customer service
while employed by a defense contractor for whom he was employed between 2002 and
2011. (AE D, F, G, H; Tr. at 103)
11
Applicant’s next-door neighbor testified on Applicant’s behalf at the hearing. The
neighbor considers him  to  be  “like  a  son.” The  neighbor has  known  him  since at least
2012, having met through Applicant’s grandmother. He and the neighbor interact “close
to every day.” The neighbor has observed him taking care of his grandmother and their
home. The witness stated, “He helps her out a lot.”
I've   never   known  him   to   do   anything   wrong   or  hang   out  with   the   wrong
characters  out  there.  Every  time   I  seen   [sic]  him   he's   working.  He   helps
everybody in the  neighborhood. I  think -- I think a  lot  of him. And  I think he'd
be   pretty  good   with   whatever  he   do   [sic]  in   life.  He  doesn't  do   anything
wrong that I know of or ever seen  him  do.  (Tr. at 7-14)
The  neighbor  had  not  been  aware  of  Applicant’s  history  of  marijuana  use  or  criminal
charges  prior  to  the  Government  presenting  him  with  that  information  upon  cross-
examination.  After  being  presented  by  that  information,  the  neighbor  reiterated  his
support for Applicant.  (Tr. at 7-14)
At the end of the hearing, Applicant asserted that each occasion of his involvement
with law enforcement resulted from profiling. He explained, “I mean, all the times I got
pulled over is, as you can say, I feel like I was being profiled or they was [sic] looking for
something and then that escalated to another thing.” (Tr. at 165)
