The single allegation  in the SOR concerns Applicant’s  alleged use of marijuana
from  April  2020  through  October  2021  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.
Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a  with  an  explanation.  His  admission  is  incorporated  into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  26  years  old.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  After
graduating  high  school  in  2014,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2018.  He  began
working as an engineer with a defense contractor in May 2019. He submitted his initial
SCA  in  July 2019  and was  subsequently  granted  a  security  clearance.  He  left  his  first
contracting position in September 2021 and started with his current employer, another
defense contractor, in October 2021. (Items 4, 6)
Applicant did not list  any drug  use on his July 2019 SCA. On his October 2021
SCA, he disclosed that he began smoking marijuana in April 2020 as the COVID-related
lockdowns  began.  Applicant  lives  in  State  1.  He  smoked  marijuana  in  a  neighboring
state, State 2, where its purchase and use was legal under state law. After a few weeks,
he  stopped  using  marijuana  when  he  began  feeling  “paranoid”  each  time  he  smoked.
About  a  year  later,  marijuana  became  legal  in  State  1  and  Applicant  started  smoking
marijuana weekly. (Items 4, 6)
In  August  2021,  Applicant  briefly  stopped  using  marijuana  so  that  he  could
interview  and  take  a  drug  test  for  his  current  employer  in  connection  with  the  hiring
process. Once Applicant passed the drug test, he resumed his use of marijuana.  (Item
4)
On  his  October  2021  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  all  of  his  marijuana  use
occurred while he possessed a security clearance. He further stated “I intend to use this
drug  since  it’s  legal  in  [State  1],  although  I  will  not  if  it  is  necessary  to  stop  for  this
security clearance, or for my job.” (Item 4)
During  his  January  2022  background  interview,  Applicant  explained  he  smoked
marijuana  with  his  former  girlfriend  and  her  cousin.  He  described  feeling  a  “paranoid
anxiety”  each  time  he  smoked  and  stopped  using  it.  However,  he  started  using
marijuana  again  when  it  became  available  in  State  1.  Applicant  admitted  that,  during
this time, he held a security clearance with his previous employer, a defense contractor.
However,  Applicant  claimed  that  the  contractor  had  a  “laid-back  environment”  and  he
did not recall ever being briefed about  drug use or being required to take a urinalysis.
(Item 5)
However,  Applicant  stated  that  shortly  after  starting  with  his  current  employer,
that employer’s security officer told him that he could not use marijuana while holding a
security  clearance.  Applicant  claimed  that  he  was  “surprised”  to  learn  that  marijuana
remained  illegal  under  federal  law,  which,  in  his  view,  “contradicted”  state  law.  He
claimed  that  he  never used  marijuana  in  high  school  or  college  because  it  was  illegal
and he  had  since  only used  in  states  where it  was  legal.  Applicant  asserted  he  would
not  have  used  marijuana  if  it  was  illegal  for  him  to  do  so.  He  claimed  that  he  had  no
intent of using marijuana in the future. (Item 5)
In  his June  2022 Response  to  DOHA  Interrogatories,  Applicant  detailed that  he
used  marijuana  weekly  from  April  2020  through  May  2020  and  again  from  May  2021
through  August  2021.  After he  passed  his  August 2021  drug  test, Applicant  increased
his marijuana use to every other day until he stopped in October 2021. (Item 5)
In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  “I  used  marijuana  in  places  it  was
legalized  …  and  didn’t  realize  I  was  breaking  this  guideline  since  it  was  only illegal at
the  federal level.  I have  stopped  using  marijuana  since my  security  officer  warned me
about this guideline and I don’t plan on using it in the future.” (Item 3)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  Government’s  FORM  or  otherwise  offer  any
mitigating evidence beyond what he had previously stated.
