Applicant is a 34-year-old,  married  man with  one child, age nine,  He served in the
U.S. Navy from  2011  to  2016. He was honorably  discharged.  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree  in  information  technology in  2019, and  a  master’s degree  in information  assurance
and  cybersecurity in 2021. (Response  at 3)  He  has been  working  for a  defense  contractor
since 2017. (Item 5 at  14)
Applicant has been using marijuana with varying degrees of frequency since 2007.
For the first three to four years of his use, he periodically sold marijuana. (Item 6 at 2; Item
8 at 10) Applicant stopped using marijuana while he was in the Navy and resumed use in
2018. Since then, he typically either smokes it or uses it in candy form. He typically uses it
with his wife. (Items 7 at 6; 8 at 9) He enjoys using marijuana, contending that it helps him
manage anxiety, helped him quit smoking tobacco, and makes him “feel relaxed, like [he]
feels when he drinks two beers, but without the weight gain.” (Item 7 at 6) Over the years,
he has used it approximately 300 times.
Applicant’s last use of marijuana was in March 2022, approximately four years after
he completed a security clearance application, and four days before he was scheduled for
an interview with an investigative agent. (Item 7 at 5) At that time, he was using marijuana
approximately once per week. (Item 7 at 5) In response to a question on the March 2022
interrogatories regarding future illegal marijuana use, Applicant responded, as follows:
I have  no  details, but I figure it’s better to  err  on  the  side  of the  affirmative.
The  national culture  is shifting  and  all  but the  top  seems to  be  moving  with  it.
5mg or  2  beers doesn’t  make  much  difference  since  I don’t leave  my house
either way.  (Item 7 at 9)
In response to subparagraph 1.c alleging that Applicant intends to continue using marijuana
in the future, he denied it, explaining that he does not have a plan in place to continue
using marijuana, but was “not against” using it in the future, and “wouldn’t use it, at least,
for a while.” (Item 3 at 2)
Applicant believes the current  classification of marijuana  under federal law  as a
Schedule I drug with a high potential for abuse is “ridiculous,” and the presumption that use
of marijuana constitutes “such a danger that [he] can’t be trusted by using it is incorrect[,]
and . . . the majority of the developed world would agree” with him. (Item 7 at 11) Moreover,
though he admits that  he  is disregarding the law  by using marijuana, he denies  that it
reflects negatively on his character. (Response at 1)
Applicant has a medical disability that results in severe neck pain, for which he is
prescribed a combination of anti-inflammatory medication and muscle relaxers. (Item 3 at 1)
In 2019, his prescription was delayed in the mail. Subsequently, Applicant experienced
extreme pain, compelling him to use one of his mother’s prescription pain relievers, on one
occasion, to get it under control. (Item 3 at 1; Item 6 at 3)
Shortly  before  Applicant  entered  the  Navy  in  2011,  he  completed  a  security
clearance application. He did not include his purchase, sale, and use of marijuana on the
application, as  required,  and as  alleged in  SOR  subparagraphs 2.a  and  2.b. Applicant
contends that he told his recruiter who advised him to “keep it to [him]self.” (Response at 1)
Applicant completed  a  security clearance  application  in 2018. SOR subparagraph
2.c alleges that he  underreported  his  marijuana  use  by not disclosing  his use  in 2007  in
response  to  Section  23  of the  application  requiring  disclosure  of  illegal  drugs  within  the  past
seven  years preceding  completion  of the  application.  Applicant answered   ‘Yes,’   to  this
question,   disclosing  that  his most  recent  use   was  approximately  seven   months  before
completion of the application.
