Applicant admitted  all  allegations contained in  both  paragraphs of the  SOR.  (Item
1)  His  admissions are incorporated into  these  findings.
Applicant is 33 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2012. He has worked
as a digital design engineer for a defense contractor since August 2017. (Item 1)
Applicant has a history of using marijuana, beginning in March 2011 when he was
in  college  and  continuing,  with  varying  frequency,  into  September  2021  when  he
submitted  his  SCA  for  a  position  with  a  defense  contractor.  He  stated  that  he  used
marijuana “most days in a week during the evenings.” (Item 2 at 28) He said he used it
for arthritis because it helps alleviate his pain and relieves nausea, which he experiences
from cancer medications. (Id.)
Applicant  also  disclosed  in  his  SCA  that  in  February  2017,  he  was  previously
investigated for a “TS-SCI clearance without success.” (Item 2 at 31) At that time he was
employed by a defense contractor, who terminated him for his admitted use of marijuana
and inability to obtain a security clearance because of it. (Item 1) He stated that he used
marijuana from December 2011 to February 2012, while working as an intern for defense
contractor A and holding a security clearance. (Item 1)
During  a  December  2021  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant
stated  that  after  he  was  denied  a  security  clearance  in  February  2017,  and  he  was
terminated from his position with defense contractor B. He then stopped using marijuana
because he wanted to apply for a job with defense contractor C, and he knew he may
need to pass a drug test required for employment. In June or July 2017, he passed a drug
screening and began working for defense contractor C in August 2017. He subsequently
resumed using marijuana in spring of 2018. He uses marijuana in the evenings during the
week and on weekends. He primarily uses it for medicinal purposes but acknowledged
there  is  a  social  element  in  using  it.  He  said  he  was  unfamiliar  with  any  employment
requirements to report his marijuana use. (Item 3)
Applicant denied that any physician prescribed marijuana for him. He indicated that
marijuana  is  legal  in  his  home  state.  He  obtains  it  at  a  local  dispensary.  He  told  the
investigator that he would rather work on unclassified projects, than stop using marijuana.
He said his family and friends are aware of his marijuana use. (Item 3) There is no credible
evidence that he has participated in a substance abuse program or has any intention to
quit using marijuana.
