Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  she  has
worked  since  March  2021.  She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2003  and  has  taken
community  college courses  without earning a  degree. She has never  married and has
no children. (Items 3, 5, 8)
Beginning in about 2001,  Applicant had  upwards of  six knee surgeries  to repair
or  replace  menisci  and  her  anterior  cruciate  ligament  in  her  left  knee.  When  none  of
these  surgeries  proved  successful,  Applicant  had  knee  replacement  surgery  in  about
2011. Despite the knee replacement, she continued to experience pain in her knee. For
several  years,  she  was  legally  taking  the  prescription  opioid  Tramadol  with  a
prescription  for  pain  relief  related  to  her  knee.  However,  in  about  July  2014,  she  quit
before  she  was  fired  from  her  job  with  a  government  agency.  She  lost  her  insurance
and her  prescription for Tramadol lapsed.  She  was  still experiencing  pain  and thought
she  needed  the  Tramadol,  so  she  used  it  illegally,  without  the  requisite  prescription,
from  about  August  2014  until  about  February  2015.  She  claimed  that  she  still  had  a
valid prescription for the Tramadol and merely refilled her prescriptions more often than
her  doctor  authorized.  There  is  no  documentation  to  this  effect  in  the  record.
Regardless,  she  admitted  using  Tramadol  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  her  doctor’s
prescription. From about May 2015 until about the middle of November 2015, a medical
doctor again prescribed her Tramadol for pain relief. She claimed that she continued to
experience pain in her left knee until a surgical repair of a portion of her artificial knee in
about  September  2022.  However,  she  has  not  used  opioids  since  sometime  in  2016.
(Items 2-4; FORM Response)
While Applicant claimed that she did not use opioids for pain management, she
illegally used “medical”  marijuana edibles with varying frequency for pain management
from  about  October  2020  to  the  present.  She  thought  using  medical  marijuana  was  a
better  alternative  to  opioids  for  managing  her  pain.  In  April  2022,  she  obtained  a
certification from a family nurse practitioner for the use of cannabis products in State A
where she resides. She claimed she thought marijuana use was “legal” in State A until
she  had  her security  interview in  May  2021.  Despite  her understanding  of  marijuana’s
illegality,  she  continued  to  use  it  and  obtained  the  certificate  for  the  use  of  cannabis
products  after  her  security  interview.  She  claimed  that,  on  an  unspecified  date,  she
made  her  current  employer  aware  of  her  marijuana  use  and  decided  to  stop  using  it.
There is no evidence in the record to corroborate this claim. Conversely, she has also
claimed that she will stop using marijuana once she obtains a clearance, which implies
that she continues to use it. (Items 2, 3, 4; FORM Response)
From  about  December  2014  until  about  February  2015,  Applicant  fraudulently
obtained prescriptions for Tramadol. She also fraudulently obtained at least 150 doses
is  a  registered  nurse.  Applicant  knew
of  Tramadol.  She  obtained  these  prescriptions  and  dosages  by  calling  pharmacies
posing  as  an  acquaintance  who
the
acquaintance’s  “NPI”  number  and  used  it  during  her  phone  calls  with  pharmacies  to
mislead  the  pharmacies  into  believing  the  prescription  was  valid.  In  February  2015,  a
pharmacist suspected her prescription to be fraudulently obtained and called the police
while  Applicant  was  waiting  to  pick  up  her  refill.  A  police  officer  confronted  Applicant,
and she admitted the prescription fraud. She was arrested and charged with five counts
of prescription fraud, a class 6 felony. In May 2015, she entered into a plea agreement
whereby she pleaded guilty to all five felony counts. She was sentenced to two years of
probation,  was  ordered  to  attend  drug  counseling,  had  her  driver’s  license  suspended
for 30 months, and was ordered to pay fees. As part of her plea agreement, her guilty
plea  on  the  five  felony  counts  was  suspended  for  a  year  and  all  five  were  reduced  to
misdemeanors  when  she  completed  the  other  requirements  of  her plea  agreement  on
June 15, 2017. It is unclear whether she has continued to attend drug counseling after
June 2017. (Items 2-5; FORM Response)
From about 2007 until 2014, Applicant held a security clearance while she either
worked  as  a  contractor  for  a  government  agency  or  directly  for  the  same  government
agency.  In  about  December  2013,  she  failed  to  properly  escort  individuals  in  her
workspace  for  whom  she  was  responsible,  because  she  was  using  social  media.  Her
supervisor  revoked  her  access  to  the  information-technology  (IT)  system  that  allowed
her to access social media at work. Applicant wanted to continue to access social media
at work, so, in contravention of the government’s rules for accessing its IT systems, she
used another employee’s  (her mother’s) access  information to  access  the  government
IT system. Her mother told her that she should not use her mother’s access information,
but Applicant thought it was not a big deal. In about July 2014, the government agency
for whom she worked determined that she was inappropriately accessing its IT system
with  another  individual’s  access  information  and  gave  her  the  option  of  resigning  or
being fired. She resigned. She lost her security clearance because of this conduct and
blames her actions on a “severe error in judgment.” (Items 2-4; FORM Response)
To show her rehabilitation and worthiness to hold a security clearance, Applicant
cites to the years that have passed without using opioids, engaging in criminal conduct,
or  engaging  in  workplace  misconduct.  She  claimed  that  she  has  learned  from  her
mistakes  and  now  possesses  the  requisite  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  to
hold a security clearance. She claimed that the level of trust that her current employer
places in her is evidence of this change. (Item 2; FORM Response)
