Applicant was born in the United States in 1956. His parents, now deceased, were
Iranian citizens working in the U.S. as part of a technology-exchange program between
the  Iranian  Government  and  the  United  States  before  the  1979  Islamic  Revolution.
Applicant is a dual citizen of the U.S. and Iran due to his birth in the United States and his
parents’ Iranian citizenships. He lived in the U.S. until age six, when his family moved
back to Iran in 1962. He lived there until he graduated from high school. He returned to
the  United  States  for  his  higher  education  and  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1979,  a
master’s degree in 1980, and a doctoral degree in 1986. As a young man, he received a
medical exemption from performing mandatory military service in Iran. He has worked for
40 years in the United States and Europe and asserts that his professional “reputation is
very well established.” Applicant held a DoD secret clearance in the 1980s. He presently
works for a  DoD  contractor as  an  engineer and  is seeking eligibility  for a  clearance  in
relation to his employment. (Tr. at 9-10, 17, 19-27, 39-40, 57-58; GE 1, Sections 2, 9, 12,
17, 18, 25.)
Applicant’s parents became naturalized U.S. citizens before they returned to Iran
with Applicant and his three sisters in 1962. His father was a railroad locomotive expert.
He  came  to  the  United  States  in  1952  as  an  employee  of  the  Iranian  Ministry  of
Transportation and Railroads to research ways to improve  the Iranian railroad system.
He and his family returned to Iran because he was laid off at his job at a U.S. research
facility. Applicant’s parents returned to live in the United States in 1978, one year before
the revolution in Iran. They lived in the U.S. the remainder of their lives. His three sisters
also continued their adult lives in the United States. (Tr. at 19-27.)
Applicant  has  been  married  twice.  In  1987,  he  married  an  Iranian-born  woman,
who is a dual citizen of the United States and Iran. They divorced in 2018. They have two
adult children. Applicant remarried another Iranian-born woman in 2019. She is a citizen
of  Iran  and  lives  with  Applicant  in  the  United  States.  She  is  a  U.S.  lawful  permanent
resident (LPR). She intends to apply for U.S. citizenship when she has met the residency
requirement in 2024. Her father is deceased. At the time Applicant submitted the e-QIP,
his mother-in-law was alive, but she passed away in September 2022. His wife has three
brothers and a sister who are Iranian citizens and residents. Her family are part of a small,
minority religious group in Iran. She speaks with her sister and one of her brothers by
phone with some frequency. Applicant’s wife works in the United States as a mathematics
teacher at a private school. (Tr. at 33-39, 41-43; GE 1 at Sections 17, 18; AE A.)
Applicant  has  travelled  to  Iran  several  times  during  his  adult  life,  including  a
number of  times  after the  Iranian  Revolution.  He  traveled  frequently  to  Iran to  visit  his
future second wife before they married in 2019 and until she received her visa to enter
the United States as his wife in 2021. He uses his Iranian passport to enter Iran because
that is a requirement of the Iranian Government. Now that his mother-in-law has died, he
no  longer  has  any  reason  to  return  to  Iran.  If  his  wife  returns  to  Iran  to  visit  with  her
siblings, Applicant claims that he has no reason to travel with her. Applicant’s last trip to
Iran was in April 2021 to escort his second wife to the United States following her receipt
of her LPR status. He did not travel to Iran to attend the funeral services for his mother-
in-law in 2022. Applicant stated that, from his prior experience as a clearance holder, he
understands the foreign travel procedures and the importance of compliance with those
security procedures in the event he travels anywhere outside the United States.  (Tr. at
29-33, 44-45, 55.)
Guideline B,  Foreign Influence
At the hearing, Applicant responded to the following allegations in the SOR:
1.a:   Applicant’s   Wife.   Applicant’s  wife  is  a  citizen  of  Iran.  As  of  2021,  she  has
relocated to be with Applicant in the United States and is a lawful permanent resident in
the U.S. She intends to apply for U.S. citizenship when she Is eligible to do so in 2024.
1.b:  Applicant’s  Mother-in-Law. Applicant’s mother-in-law died a few months prior
to the hearing. Her death makes the alleged security concern under this subparagraph
moot.
Iran
Through  his  wife’s  citizenship  in  Iran,  Applicant  has  contact  with  that  country.
Accordingly, it is appropriate to look at the current conditions in Iran.
Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic with a Shia Islamic political system. Shia
clergy  and  political  leaders  vetted  by  the  clergy  dominate  key  power  structures  in  the
country.  Iran’s  Supreme  Leader  is  the  head  of  state  and  holds  constitutional  authority
over the judiciary, government-run media, and other important institutions.
The U.S. Department of State advises U.S. citizens not to travel to Iran due to the
risk of kidnapping and the arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citizens. Since 1984, Iran
has been designated by the United States as a state sponsor of terrorism. Its support of
terrorist  organizations throughout  the  Middle East  creates  instability  in  the  region.  Iran
threatens U.S. persons directly and through proxy attacks, particularly in the Middle East.
Iran’s growing  expertise  and  willingness to  conduct aggressive  cyber operations
make it a major threat to U.S. and allied networks and data. As of 2018, all previously
suspended  sanctions  imposed  on  Iran  were  reinstated  with  the  goals  of  permanently
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, ceasing Iran’s development of ballistic
missiles, and ending Iran’s broad range of malign activities.
The U.S. Department of State has identified significant human rights issues in Iran.
The  issues  include  the  unlawful and  arbitrary  killings  by  the  Iranian  Government  or  its
agents;  forced  disappearances  attributed  to  the  government;  torture  and  inhumane
treatment  by  the  government  and  its  agents;  the  imprisonment  of  political  opponents;
severe  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  the  media;  serious  restrictions  on  political
participation; and government corruption.
