In  Applicant’s SOR response,  he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 3.a, and 3.b.  He
admitted SOR ¶ 2.a. Applicant’s admission is accepted as a finding of fact. (Item 1)
Applicant is 56 years old. He enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in 1985, and he received
an honorable discharge in 1996. He was married and divorced twice. He was married a
third time to a Filipino national in 2000, and the marriage was annulled in 2013. In August
2020, he met a female citizen of Thailand online, with whom he maintains a long-distance
romantic  relationship.  Since  January  2021,  Applicant  has  worked  for  a  government
contractor, and his job title is fuel-systems employee. (Items 1, 3 and 4)
Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges personal conduct security concerns under Guideline E. On April
25, 2013, Applicant’s employment with a government contractor was terminated following
an investigation into computer misuse. His United Arab Emirates (UAE) base privileges
were  revoked,  and  he  was  barred  from  the  UAE  worksite.  (SOR  ¶  1.a.)  When  he
completed  the  security  clearance  application  in  January  2021,  he  deliberately
misrepresented his 2013 employment termination. He listed that his employment with the
government  contractor  began  in  March  2005  continuing  through  March  2014,  and  his
employment concluded at that time due to “end of contract.” (SOR ¶ 1.b.) Applicant denied
these allegations. (Items 1 and 2)
In his SOR response, Applicant claimed that he was released from employment
“due to other issues and slots closing.” He stated that he inadvertently misdated the end
date (March 2014) of his employment “by a few months.”  He provided a letter from the
government  contractor as  supporting  evidence.  The  letter  dated  April 25,  2013,  stated
that  Applicant  was  being  terminated  effective  the  date  of  the  letter  “due  to  customer
restrictions in [his] current position.” It did not mention that his employment ended after
fulfillment  of  a  contract,  as  listed  on  the  2021  SCA.  The  Government  submitted  an
adverse incident report and a current email communication from the human resources
(HR) department  of  this  former  employer.  Both  documents  showed that  Applicant  was
terminated in 2013 as follows: (Items 1, 2, 4 and 5)
“Subject’s employment  with  [DOD contractor] has  been  terminated  due  to
ongoing   investigation   into   computer  misuse.   Base   pass  was  revoked   by
UAE   and   he   was  barred   from   the   UAE   site.  Investigation   was   being
conducted by the  Emirates.”  (Item 5)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that Applicant falsified his January 2021 SCA by deliberately
omitting information about his close and continuing contact with a citizen of Thailand, with
whom he had a romantic relationship and to whom he was providing financial support at
the time. In his February 2022 SOR response, he denied this allegation, but admitted that
he is very close with the foreign national and he had recently asked her to marry him.
Since she is his fiancée, he expected that if she requested monetary assistance  in the
future, he would provide it to her. (Items 1, 2, 3 and 4)
Foreign Influence
The  SOR  alleges  a  Guideline  B  security  concern  that  Applicant  has  maintained
close and continuing contact with a citizen of Thailand, whom he met online in August
2020, and to whom he has provided financial support. (SOR ¶ 2.a.) In his February 2022
SOR response, he admitted this information and explained that they are  now engaged
but they have not set a wedding date. During his background interview in March 2021, he
freely disclosed, without confrontation by the investigator, that they met online in August
2020, after she was introduced to him by mutual friends. She is independently wealthy
and does not need to work. They communicate with each other almost daily. She has a
bachelor’s degree in hotel management. In February 2021, she requested that he send
her $200, and he did so without requiring an explanation. She is unaware of this job and
his current DOD security clearance. She is not affiliated with Thailand’s government, and
he  made  an  inadvertent  mistake  by  not  listing  her  on  his  SCA.  He  stated  that  he  has
served honorably in the U.S. military for over a decade, he is an American first, and he
would never betray his country. (Items 1, 2, 3 and 4)
Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant has an outstanding state tax
lien  filed  against  him  in  the  amount  of  approximately  $6,000,  and  he  has  a  consumer
credit account that was charged off in 2020 for $11,232. (SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.b.) Applicant
denied these allegations. He claimed that he never resided in the state that filed a tax lien
against him, and he was considering hiring a company or firm to dispute this lien. During
Applicant’s  2012  clearance  investigation,  a  February  2012  credit  report  listed  this
September  2010  state  tax  lien.  Court  records  dated  October  2021  also  report  this
outstanding state tax lien. (Items 1, 2, 6 and 8)
Applicant’s  February  2021  credit  report  lists  the  delinquent  credit  account.
Applicant claimed in his SOR response that his delinquent consumer account was paid
following  his  March  2021  background  interview.  He  had  opened  this  account  to  make
repairs  on  his  home.  He  did  not  submit  any  documentary  evidence  to  corroborate  his
claim. (Items 1, 2, 3, 6 and 7)
