Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c, with clarifications.
His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  is  working  on  a
master’s  degree.  He  was  married  from  2004  to  2014.  He  has  two  children  from  the
marriage, ages 24 and 15. He has shared custody of the younger child, who lives with
him. He has worked for his current employer, a federal contractor, since 2017 and has
held  a  security  clearance  during  his  employment.  He  has  owned  his  own  home  since
2020. (Tr. 30-32, 49-50
Applicant  began  his  military  service  with  the  Army  National  Guard  in  2004  and
transferred to  the regular Army where he  served until he was honorably discharged  in
March  2012.  He  was  involved  in  combat  operations  in  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom  from
October 2009 to October 2010. He is authorized to wear the Army Commendation Medal,
Army Achievement Medal, Meritorious Unit Commendation, Army Good Conduct Medal,
National Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Army Service
Ribbon, and the Overseas Service Ribbon. (Tr. 32-35, 55-56; GE 1; AE E)
In 2012, while still in the Army, Applicant was diagnosed with post traumatic stress
disorder  (PTSD).  He  was  experiencing  depression  and  suicidal  ideations  due  to  his
combat experiences and a struggling marriage. He had been trained to seek help and
guidance from his chain of command if he needed it or felt suicidal. He sought help and
was referred to the mental health clinic at the military hospital. He self-admitted for in-
patient mental health care. He was there a few days and was released with instructions
on how to cope with his negative feelings from combat operations which resulted in PTSD.
He was attending both group and individual therapy through Veterans Affairs (VA) through
2016. (SOR 1.a). (Tr. 35-37, 56, 75-77)
In 2016, Applicant was struggling again with depression and suicidal ideations after
his  divorce,  toxic  romantic  relationships,  and  multiple  periods  of  unemployment.  He
acknowledged that during  this time he had an altercation with his former girlfriend who
was unfaithful. He was arrested and charged with battery and destruction of property. His
case  was  adjudicated  in  the  state’s  veteran  court.  He  completed  all  the  terms  and
requirements imposed and the charges were dismissed. (Tr. 39-41, 57, 60, 78-82)
During  that  time,  Applicant  self-reported  that  he  was  struggling  and  voluntarily
admitted himself for inpatient treatment.  He participated in counseling and therapy.  He
learned new coping techniques and skills for his PTSD, which he has continued to apply
to  the  present.  At  the  time  of  the  incident  with  his  girlfriend,  the  medication  he  was
prescribed was not helping his PTSD. After inpatient treatment, he was prescribed a new
medication, which is effective, and he continues to take it. (Tr. 36-39, 60-61)
In  October  2020,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  government-approved  licensed
psychologist  (LP)  during  a  virtual  telemedicine  appointment.  Based  on  background
information,  clinical  interview,  observations,  and  a  psychological  test,  Applicant  was
diagnosed with PTSD. LP reported in her evaluation and findings for his mental status
and behavioral observations that he had good insight and appeared open and honest in
his  report.  She  also  noted  that  his  psychological  test  results  suggested  a  degree  of
defensiveness in his responses. She said, “Given this positive impressive management,
the  information  garnered  upon  interview  and  his  test  results  may  be  an  inaccurate
representation  of  the  applicant’s  current  mental  health  status,  likely  underestimating
concerns.” (GE 2)
LP had Applicant complete a personality assessment inventory (PAI). She noted
problem  areas  that  could  merit  further  inquiry,  such  as  a  high  level  of  defensiveness,
which could likely reflect significant distortion, and minimization of difficulties in certain
areas. She opined that regardless of the cause, the PAI results are unlikely to be a valid
reflection  of  his  current  experience  and  mental  health  status.  She  said  that  all  clinical
scales fell within the normal limits, with no elevations suggesting a psychological disorder.
(GE 2)
LP  noted  that  Applicant  appeared  to  have  a  generally  stable  and  positive  self-
evaluation, which are valuable characteristics because they allow him to be resilient and
adaptive  in  the  face  of  most  stressors.  Further  she  stated  that  Applicant’s  social
environment, with respect to perceived stressor and the availability of social support with
which to deal the stressors, and his responses indicated that both his recent level of stress
and  his  perceived  level  of  social  support  are  about  average  in  comparison  to  normal
adults. She opined, “The reasonably low stress environment and the intact social support
system are both favorable prognostic signs for future adjustment.” (GE 2)
LP  said  that  Applicant’s  reported  mood  swings  that  ranged  from  “fine”  to
“depressed” had significantly improved. He was compliant with his medication and did not
have recent suicidal ideations. She said:
He does appear to have good insight into his symptoms and overall mental
health status, seeking treatment when needed and advocating for his own
mental health. In addition, the legal concerns. . . have been resolved and
he is actually now volunteering with the veterans’ treatment court. (GE 2)
LP’s concerns were due to Applicant’s psychological testing being rendered invalid
due  to  indications  of  defensiveness/positive  impression  management.  She  said  that
Applicant’s scores showed  problems of  greater intensity that those  of typical defensive
respondents.  The  problems  areas  were  moodiness,  poor  control  over  anger,  and
unsupportive  family  and  friends.  Because  of  this  defensive  psychological  profile,  she
opined that “there were apparent limitations to [Applicant’s] reliability, stability and good
judgment.”  She  concluded,  “Therefore,  although  his  mental  health  status  is  presently
stable  and  he  appeared  to  be  forthright  and  honest  in  his  interview,  his  prognosis  is
considered guarded.” (GE 2)
In September 2021, Applicant sought another opinion regarding his mental health
status. He was seen by a psychiatrist. Applicant said he told the psychiatrist his whole
history,  his treatment,  including  medications he  has  taken.  He testified  the psychiatrist
said  his  current  treatment  was  effective.  He  provided  an  assessment  report  from  the
psychiatrist diagnosing him with PTSD, chronic; other long term (current) drug therapy;
and other psychosocial and environmental problems. The psychiatrist opined: “We don’t
see any reason today that the patient should not maintain his security clearance.” (Tr. 42,
66; AE A)
In January 2023, Applicant sought a more recent mental health evaluation, and it
was conduct by a licensed psychologist, Dr. F. He used data from clinical and collateral
interviews; general and behavioral observations; checklist of adaptive living skills; mental
status  examination;  mini-mental  state  examination;  Wechsler  Abbreviated  Scale  of
Intelligence; wide range achievement test; Bender Visual Motor Gestalt Test; SPECTRA
Indices of Psychopathology; and Combat Exposure Scale. (Tr. 67-68; AE J)
Applicant provided Dr. F with a history of his background consistent with what was
provided to LP and the psychiatrist. Applicant testified that he discussed with DR. F his
previous  diagnoses.  Numerous  psychological  tests  were  administered,  and  he  was
interviewed. Dr. F’s conclusions were that Applicant did not have any learning disorders
which  could  impact  the  tests.  There  were  no  indications  that  Applicant  experiences
significant neuropsychological impairment.  He  did score “moderate-to-heavy” exposure
to  combat  fire,  consistent  with  notable  PTSD  symptoms.  His  responses  on  a
comprehensive, standardized inventory of adult psychopathology “suggested significant
high  levels  of  PTSD  symptoms,  moderate  anxiety,  and  notable  grandiose  ideation
suggestive  of  high  self-esteem  and  confidence.”  There  was  no  evidence  of  significant
depression, alcohol or drug use, aggression, paranoia, psychosis, anti-social tendencies,
obsessions  or  compulsions,  mania,  cognitive  dysfunction,  psychosocial  impairment,  or
suicidal ideation. Dr. F opined: “Evaluative findings suggest [Applicant] can learn, execute
and perform duties within his scope of comprehension without reservation or difficulty.”
(Tr. 47-49; AE J)
Applicant disclosed both mental health incidents and his arrest on his July 2017
security clearance application (SCA). He credibly testified that he has been treated for
PTSD since his military discharge. Through his treatment, he has learned valuable coping
skills and is cognizant of emotional triggers that may affect his judgment or mental well-
being.  He  remains  on  medication  and  is  compliant.  He  sees  his doctor annually  to  be
evaluated for his medication regime and mental health status updates. He has learned
coping skills and has hobbies that help him. He is aware of options if he feels the need to
seek help, such as the Veterans’ Affairs hotline, members of his family,  his ex-wife with
whom he remains close, and other veterans’ services. He has not had any mental health
issues  since  2016.  He  has  been  open  and  honest  with  his employer  about his mental
health, and they are aware of his diagnoses. (Tr. 58-63)
Applicant is involved  in  mentoring  others who  suffer with  PTSD at the  Veterans’
Treatment  Center.  He  has  a  background  in  art,  so  he  volunteers  as  a  teacher  in  art
therapy. He teaches different mediums that help with coping skills. (Tr. 61, 70-72)
Applicant testified that in his current position, he has served as the custodian for
classified hard drives. His office is transitioning to digital. It is evolving technology and he
had to obtain multiple certifications to be compliant. (Tr. 53-54)
Applicant’s former supervisor, who is now retired, testified on his behalf. He is the
person who hired Applicant in 2017. He observed him daily for five years. He stated that
Applicant is conscientious, and when he sees a problem, he fixes it without being told to
do so. He is service-oriented and can be trusted to get the job done without oversight
from  supervisors.  He  is  excellent  with  dealing  customers.  He  was  responsible  for
managing 800-900 classified hard drives. He is responsible for knowing where each hard
drive is located in their physical spaces at all times. His work is independently audited to
ensure the classified hard drives are being properly managed and secured. It is a tedious
and thankless responsibility, and he was hand-picked for it because he understood the
seriousness  of  the  responsibility.  The  witness  personally  selected  Applicant  for  this
responsibility as a replacement for himself. It is the most important job  in the company
because  failure  to  comply  with  the  rules  could  shut  the  site  down.  It  is  a  high-risk
responsibility, and Applicant has completed it flawlessly. (Tr. 16-29)
The witness stated that Applicant told him about his mental health issues and has
been completely honest with him. He was confident that Applicant would report any issues
that he was experiencing, which he thought would impact the job. The witness has no
hesitation at all about Applicant continuing to hold a security clearance and have access
to  classified  information.  He  exercises  sound  judgment  and  can  handle  any  of  the
technical or rules pertaining to classified information. He has not been  involved in any
security  violations,  behavioral  issues,  or  performance  concerns.  He  is  reliable,
trustworthy,  and  exercises  good  judgment.  Applicant  took  over  the  hard  drive
accountability job about four to five months before the witness retired  in late 2021 and
has had sole responsibility for it since then. (Tr. 16-29)
Applicant  provided  character  letters  from  friends,  coworkers,  and  family.  They
stated that Applicant is trustworthy, loyal, dedicated, professional, responsible, valuable,
diligent, and a patriot. His ex-wife who has known him for 28 years stated he is a hard-
worker, goal-oriented, and positive role model for their children. (Tr. 42-44; AE B)
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge
must consider the AG. In addition to brief introductory explanations for each guideline,
