Applicant  is  48-year-old  senior  associate  network  engineer,  who  has  been
employed  by  her  defense  contractor  employer  since  March  2021.  She  seeks  a  Secret
security  clearance  as  a  first-time  applicant.  A  clearance  is  a  requirement  of  her
continued employment. (Tr. 24-27; GE 1)
Applicant was born in Iran in 1974 and acquired Iranian citizenship by birth. She
graduated from an Iranian high school before immigrating to the United States in August
1990, at age 18. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in July 1999. As such, she is a
dual citizen of Iran and the United States. She holds a valid Iranian passport issued to
her in May 2021, and holds a valid U.S. passport issued to her in December 2018. (Tr.
32-34, 60; GE 1; AE I, AE J)
Applicant  initially  came  to the United States  in the summer of 1978 on a tourist
visa accompanied by her father, mother, and sister. While Applicant and her family were
visiting  the  United  States,  the  very  first  reports  of  pre-revolution  chaos  and  street
demonstrations  were  being  reported  from  Iran.  It  was  during  this  visit  that  Applicant’s
parents decided to start the application process for the entire family to immigrate to the
United  States.  Applicant  and  her  family  returned  to  Iran  and  witnessed  the  Islamic
Revolution  of  Iran  unfold  in  1979  followed  by  the  hostage  crisis  and  the  Iran/Iraq  war
which began in 1980 and lasted for about eight years. (SOR Answer; Tr. 59-60)
Following  the  Iranian  revolution,  the  Shah  of  Iran  was  overthrown,  and  the
Ayatollah  Khomeini  and  an  Iranian  government  hostile  to  the  United  States  assumed
power. (Tr.  29-31, 59-60)  Applicant’s parents explained  to  her  later  in  her  adult life that
the theme of the rhetoric for uprisings in  1978  resonated quickly  in  their minds as both
Marxist  Populist,   and  Fanatic  Shi’ite   Islamic;  neither  of  which   ideologies   they   nor
likewise,  the  Applicant,  could  ever  subscribe  to.   These  events  in   Iran  shattered  Iran-
U.S.  diplomatic  relations   and   the  immigration   quota  for   Iranian  nationals  was
dramatically  reduced.  As  a  result,  their  immigration  process  took  about  12  years  to
complete. It was not  until 1990  that Applicant and  her  family were finally admitted to the
United States. They have lived here ever since.  (SOR Answer; Tr. 60)
Applicant’s mother is an interior designer who was educated in the U.S., and her
father  was an electrical engineer,  educated in Germany.  Applicant’s  mother and sister
became U.S. citizens, and her father passed away in September 2015 before he could
attain U.S. citizenship. (SOR Answer; Tr. 32, 59; GE 2) Applicant’s father worked in the
private sector in Iran before moving to the United States. Her mother continued working
as an interior designer after she arrived in the United States until she retired. (Tr. 61-62)
Applicant’s mother lives with her in her residence. (Tr. 39) Applicant’s sister is married
to a U.S.-born chemical engineer and employed as a university professor in the field of
environmental  science.  (Tr.  45, 62)  Applicant  has no close or  continuing contacts  with
anyone in Iran. (Tr. 45; AE K) Applicant and her sister live relatively close to each other
and visit each other on average of once a month. (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant  completed  all  of  her  post-high  school  education  in  the  United  States.
She was awarded a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering in September
1997,  and  a  Master  of  Science  degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  January  1999.  She
has never married and has no dependents. (Tr. 28-29; AE B, AE L) Applicant was a top
student  and qualified  for scholarships.  For the past 20 years of her  professional life  in
the United States, she has been fortunate and privileged to be mentored by some of the
best  technical  and  business  leaders  in  her  field.  She  has  always  been  involved  in  the
early  development  of  cutting-edge  communications  systems  and  technologies  (mostly
ten-year  certificate  of  appreciation
wireless).  (SOR  Answer)  She  received  a
commending her for contributions to the growth of the communications industry from a
professional society. (AE M)
represented  companies
Applicant  has  participated  and
international
standardization and regulatory bodies and has been a technical editor of standards. As
such,  throughout  her  professional  career,  she  has  been  exposed  to  sensitive  and
confidential information and trained by intellectual property attorneys on the methods of
safeguarding  not  only  the  intellectual  property,  but  also  the  “know-how.”  She  assures
that having access to classified information and the implied responsibility to safeguard
and protect such information is always on her mind. (SOR Answer; Tr. 42-43)
in
Applicant  has  been  awarded  six  U.S.  patents,  is  a  member  of  two  prestigious
engineering professional organization, and has made two significant book contributions
in  the  electrical  engineering  field.  (Tr.  33-34;  AE  B)  Applicant’s  2020  Federal  Income
Tax Return Form 1040 reflects combined gross income of $183,990. (Tr. 34; AE T) She
owns a home valued at $1.618 million. As of June 17, 2022, she owed $413,375 to her
mortgage company and her monthly mortgage payments were $3,138. Her FICO score
is 749. (Tr. 34. 41; AE R, AE P, AE Q) She has fine arts in her residence with a 2011
appraised  value  of  $82,737.  (AE  U,  AE  V)  As  of  May  31,  2022,  her  checking  account
had  a  balance  of  $12,414.  (AE  O)  She  is  registered  to  vote  in  the  United  States  and
exercises  that  right  to  vote.  She  does  not  vote  in  Iranian  elections.  She  has  no  real
estate or business assets in Iran, apart from the personal property discussed infra.  (Tr.
40-41; AE N) She has a valid driver’s license. (AE H)
Foreign Influence
The   sole   allegation  under  this   concern  alleges  that   Applicant  has  personal
property  in   Iran   valued  at  approximately  $600,000.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)   The   Government
became aware of these holdings when she self-reported them  in  her  October  6, 2019,
SF-86,  and  in  her March 3, 2020,  Office of Personnel  Management  interview. In  her SF-
86,  she  reported  acquiring  these  holdings  in   October   1974.   (GE  1,  GE2)  In   her  SOR
Answer,   Applicant   admitted   this  allegation   with  clarification.  Her  reported   foreign
financial  interests  are   her  share   of  personal   property  assets   that  she   and   her  sister
inherited   directly   from   their   maternal  grandparents   when   they  passed   away.  Applicant
and  her  sister received  an equal  interest in the inheritance.  The personal  property held
in   Iran   consists  of   hand-crafted  silver  and  glass  objects  and  original  paintings
(heirlooms)   that  have   been  in   the  family  a  “[h]undred  and   eighty   years  or   so”  and   are
stored at  a  secure “vault-like”  commercial  storage  facility in  Iran. (SOR Answer; Tr. 35-
36,  52-55,  65,  GE  1,   GE   2;  AE   C)   Post-hearing,  Applicant’s  counsel   submitted
explanatory   family  photos  with  some  of  the   artwork  in   storage   highlighted  in  red.  (AE
BB)
Applicant and her sister intend to  keep these heirlooms  in  storage with the hope
that in  the future relations between the United States and  Iran will  improve and they will
be able to bring  these heirlooms  to the  United States legally.  The current  Iranian export
restrictions did not exist until the Iranian revolution. (Tr. 36-37) Having  been born in  Iran,
Applicant   maintains  her  Iranian  passport   because  she  would   not  be  allowed  to  enter
Iran  with  a  U.S.  passport.  Furthermore,  it  would  be  difficult  if  not  impossible  for
Applicant to  dispose of or sell  any of  the heirlooms  unless she has an Iranian  passport.
Applicant is  willing to give up her Iranian passport  when  this issue is resolved. (Tr.  37-
38, 40)
Iranian customs prohibit the export of antiques and  original artwork, which  is the
reason that Applicant’s family was unable to  export any of those items at the time they
immigrated  to the United States. Hence, she  opted to place  them in  a storage  facility in
the hopes that Iran  would ease  their  export regulations  in  the future. Additionally, as a
U.S. citizen, and  because Iran is presently  a sanctioned country,  Applicant is prohibited
from  engaging  in  any  business   dealings  to  sell   or  send  proceeds  back  to   the  United
States without  an OFAC  license.  Based on  Applicant’s research,  it  appears that OFAC
grants  permission   to  U.S.  persons  to  sell   inherited   real   or  personal   properties   in   Iran.
(SOR Answer; AE C, AE D)
However, Applicant stated since there is no direct banking relationship between
the United States and Iran, bringing the sale proceeds to the United States still remains
complex and risky. It is well known that the foreign exchange houses in Iran charge a
premium  on  top  of  the  exchange  rate  to  transfer  funds  through  a  third  country  to  the
United  States.  These  exchange  houses  make  no  guarantees  whether  the  funds  will
arrive  safely  in  the  United  States  as  the  intermediary  banks  can  also  block  the  funds
based  on  their  own  governing  rules  and  regulations  beyond  OFAC.  (SOR Answer;  Tr.
38-39; GE 2; AE C)
Applicant  pays  the  storage  facility  annual  cash  payments  of  120  Iranian  Rial
(IRR)  in-person  on  behalf  of  her  sister  and  herself.  When  Applicant  paid  the  120  IRR
two years ago, this amount equated to $11 under the then current exchange rate. The
$600,000  valuation  was  done  in  1978,  forty  plus  years  ago  when  Applicant’s
grandparents passed away. The collection has not been appraised since then. Applicant
concedes that it is generally true that art and antiques maintain or appreciate value over
time.  However,  the  Iranian  currency  has  dramatically  lost  its  value  since  the  1979
revolution.  As  a  reference,  at  the  time  of  the  revolution  one  U.S.  dollar  was  being
exchanged for around 70 IRR and today it is being exchanged for around 280,000 IRR,
about 4,000 times reduction in value. Given this severe depreciation of the Iranian Rial,
it is very likely that today’s reappraised value of the collection, in U.S. dollars, would be
much less than the original appraised value. In short, Applicant stated, “[s]o I honestly
cannot  say  is  it  a  greater  value,  lower  value,  where  it  is.  It’s  just  I  don’t  know.”  (SOR
Answer; Tr. 51-52, 56, 58-59, 63-64) Post-hearing, Applicant’s counsel submitted a brief
history  of  the  exchange  rate  in  Iran,  and  articles  that  discussed  the  substantial
devaluation of the IRR from 1980 to 2016 and from 2018 to 2022. (AE CC, AE DD, AE
EE)
Because Applicant does not intend to sell the heirlooms, she has not had a more
recent  appraisal.  If  the  assets  were  forcibly  seized,  the  loss  of  the  assets  would  not
place Applicant in a position for influence or coercion because of her income, real estate
holdings,  and  continuing  employment  in  the  United  States.  The  heirlooms  have  great
sentimental  significance,  and  it  is  Applicant’s  intent  to  maintain  control  of  them.  It
symbolizes her Persian cultural heritage, and she would very much prefer to eventually
have the heirlooms displayed in her own home in the United States. She has opted to
preserve  and  store  the  heirlooms  in  Iran  in  the  hopes  of  being  able  to  legally  export
them from Iran. It was and remains her mother’s wish that Applicant and her sister have
these  family  heirlooms.  (SOR  Answer;  Tr.  40)  Applicant  has  not  given  any  thought  to
the  disposition  of  the  heirlooms  in  Iran  should  the  import  restrictions  still  be  in  effect
after she and her  sister  pass away.  (Tr. 55-56)  If the  Iranian regime  should  change  in
the future, Applicant has no intention of ever moving back to Iran. Her whole career, life,
family, and friends are in the United States. She stated, “I have no reason to go back.”
(Tr. 56-57)
Applicant assured that if for any unforeseen reason, her heirlooms were forcefully
seized  by  the  Iranian  government  she  will  forego  her  financial  interests.  The  financial
loss  of  the  heirlooms  would  not  place  her  in  any  possible  position  for  influence  or
coercion.  She  has  a  strong  sense  of  ethics,  earns  a  substantial  income,  owns  the
property  she  lives  in,  personally  manages  her  mother’s  three  rental  investment
properties valued at “close to $3 million,” and owns a stock investment portfolio valued
at a much greater value then the assets in question. (SOR Answer; Tr. 42, 57; GE 2) If
she was ever approached by any foreign government official attempting to put pressure
on her to reveal classified information, she would report them to the authorities. (Tr. 43)
Applicant travels to Iran “[p]robably once a year, if I have to.” She most recently
accompanied her then 77-year-old mother for a three-week visit to Iran in 2022 to have
some specialized dental work done. Covid restrictions were in place and Applicant and
her  mother  did  not  visit  anyone.  During  this  visit,  Applicant  paid  the  storage  facility
where  her  family  heirlooms  are  being  stored  their  fee  in  IRR  cash.  She  typically  pays
her storage fees “for multiple years” at a time. When making storage fee payments, she
tries to give herself a cushion because of the yearly inflation rate, which recently was at
“46,  47  percent.”  (Tr.  43-50)  She  visited  Iran  in  2021  to  renew  her  Iranian  passport,
which she must do every five years. As of her hearing date, she had no immediate visits
to Iran planned. The frequency of her visits to Iran have varied. For example, the year
her father died she visited Iran three times. And there have been periods of time where
she has not visited Iran for two or three years. (Tr. 48, 50-51)
During  her  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  her  Iranian  passport  was  stored  in  a
bank  safe  deposit  box.  She  stated  that  if  required  she  would  surrender  her  Iranian
passport  to  her  facility  security  officer  (FSO).  (Tr.  65-66,  68-71)  Post-hearing,
Applicant’s  counsel  submitted  an  Industrial  Security  Letter  dated  January  15,  2019.  In
summary,  that  letter  stated  that  cleared  contractors  who  have  retained  a  cleared
foreign  passport,  based  on  DoD  directions  or  personnel  security
employee’s
adjudicative  decisions,  should  immediately  return  the  foreign  passport,  or  identity  card
to the cleared employee. Upon return the foreign passport to the cleared employee, the
FSO will remind the cleared employee of their responsibility to enter and exit the United
States using their U.S. passport. The cleared contractor would submit an incident report
if  any  cleared  employees  report  uses  of  a  foreign  passport  to  enter  or  exit  the  United
States. (AE AA)
Applicant submitted a notarized statement of intent dated July 12, 2022, in which
she  stated  that  she  would  never  use  her  Iranian  passport  for  any  other  reason  other
than to maintain the safety of family heirlooms, that she has in her possession a valid
Iranian  passport,  that  the  only  reason  she  has  an  Iranian  passport  is  to  secure  and
maintain  the  safety  of  her  family  heirlooms,  and  that  she  will  not  use  her  Iranian
passport  for  any  other  purpose  except  to  maintain  the  safety  of  her  family  heirlooms.
When not in use, she will secure her Iranian passport in her safe deposit box. She will
notify her FSO of the date she removes her Iranian passport from her safe deposit box
and of the date she returns it to the safe deposit box. Lastly, her FSO informed her that
he will no longer take custody of foreign passports of employees. (AE X, AE Z)
Except  for Applicant’s  immediate family  residing in the  United States,  no one is
aware of this heirlooms collection. Even the managers of the commercial storage facility
in  Iran  are  not  fully  aware  of  the  contents  in  the  storage  container.  This  property  is
unlike  real  estate  or  a  bank  account,  which  would  be  registered  under  her  name  and
easily  traced  back  to  her.  (SOR  Answer)  Applicant  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  the
Iranian government has any knowledge of these items. (Tr. 57-58) She opines that the
storage  company  in  Iran  would  contact  her  if  an  issue  ever  developed  regarding
payment,  especially  because  her  family  has  stored  their  goods  at  the  facility  for  three
generations. (Tr. 66-67)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s witness is currently the vice president (VP) of a defense contractor, a
role he previously held with another defense contractor. He has held clearances since
1988 at various levels and currently holds a top secret clearance. Before beginning his
career  as  a  defense  contractor,  he  previously  served  as  a  nuclear  trained  submariner
for 14 years. (Tr. 18-20)
VP  also  submitted  a  reference  letter  on  behalf  of  the  Applicant  in  which  he
stated:
I interviewed, hired, and  managed [Applicant]  at  [defense contractor]  and
during that time  I initiated the process to  get her  approved for  a SECRET
clearance. .  ..  In my time spent  with [Applicant] I believe she cares deeply
for this country and  realizes the deep  impact  the work we  do everyday  has
on maintaining our freedoms and the American way of life. . ..  Today you
have  the ability  to make a difference in  that equation by granting a security
clearance  and   allowing  a  great  mind  to  do  important  technical  and
scientific  work that matters.
VP  testified  that  he  is  familiar  with  the  SOR  allegation  against  Applicant  and
stated that he does not have any concerns about her being granted a security clearance
based on his first-hand knowledge of her character. VP added that Applicant will be able
to contribute to the national defense, and that she will resolve any conflict in favor of the
United States. (Tr. 21-25; AE E)
Applicant  submitted  two  additional  letters:  (1)  from  the  director  of  business
development  of  a  defense  contractor;  and  (2)  the  chief  executive  officer  of  a  cable
company.  Both  individuals  know  Applicant  well  from  their  interactions  with  her  while
employed  with  previous  employers.  They  described  her  as  having  “unparalleled
integrity,” “work ethic beyond reproach,”  and said she was a “dedicated, hard-working,
and  highly  ethical  employee.”  All  three  references  have  extensive  security  clearance
experience  and  strongly  recommend  that  Applicant  be  granted  a  clearance.  (AE  E)
Applicant’s  2020  annual  work  performance  evaluation
the
comments  made  in  the  reference  letters.  (AE  F)  Lastly,  Applicant  submitted  photos  of
her relaxing with friends and family in a non-work setting. (AE G)
further  corroborates
