Applicant  is  61  years  old.  In  1982,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electronic
engineering  technology.  He  also  graduated  with  an  associate  degree  in  business
administration  in  1992,  and  with  two  master’s  degrees  in  project  management  and
business administration in 2005. He married in 1992 and divorced in 2013. He married
his second wife in 2013. He has an adult son and an adult disabled daughter from his first
marriage. He has a 13-year-old daughter with his current wife. Since July 2007, he has
been employed as an engineer for a DOD contractor. (Items 2 and 6; AE B)
The  SOR  alleges  11  delinquent  accounts  totaling  $35,818.  In  his  Answer,
Applicant  admitted  all 11  delinquent  accounts  and  listed  that  the  financial  issues  were
due to circumstances “largely beyond [his] control.” He had court-ordered garnishments
issued against him due to divorce court orders. His divorce was 20 months long, and he
had  to  pay  legal  fees,  ordered  to  provide  alimony  and  child  support,  and  he  had  a
perpetual wage garnishment issued against him due to his special needs adult daughter.
Since he remarried, he has been supporting two families. He also pays for private school,
private music lessons, tutoring expenses, orthodontics, and a summer school program
for his teenage daughter. His admissions and the credit reports in evidence support the
SOR financial allegations. (Items 1, 5 and 6, AE A and B)
During his March 31, 2022 security interview, Applicant discussed his delinquent
financial accounts that were listed in the SOR. He explained that his accounts became
delinquent because of the divorce and writs of garnishments. He told the investigator that
if he receives a collection notice from a creditor, he shreds the document without opening
it.  He  does  not  see  any  value  in  reviewing  the  collection  notice.  He  has  decided  the
creditors  should  choose  to  either  issue  him  a  1099-C,  or  obtain  a  writ  of  garnishment
through  the  legal  process. He has made  no  contact with  any of his delinquent creditors.
He has no intention  of voluntarily paying  any of his delinquent accounts. (Item  3)
