Applicant is 51  years old and  married  to  his fourth  wife. She  was Applicant’s co-
habitant   at   the   time   he   filled   out   his   e-QIP.   He   has   two   minor   children   from   his   third
marriage  who  live  with  their  mother  in the  United  States. Applicant has been  employed
by  his  current   defense   contractor   employer  since   January  2020   and   seeks   to   retain
national security eligibility and  a  security clearance  in connection  with  his employment.
He  has  been   employed   by  various  defense   contractors  in  overseas  locations  for
approximately  24   years.  He  is  currently  working   at  a   remote   location   outside   the
continental  limits  of  the   United   States   (OCONUS).  (Government  Exhibit   1   at  Sections
13A, 15, and  17; Applicant Exhibit B.)
Applicant was severely injured in a job-related accident in October 2015, according
to  his e-QIP  and  May  7,  2020  interview  with  a  Government  investigator.  (Government
Exhibit  1  at  Section  13A,  Government  Exhibit  3.)  (Applicant  testified  that  the  accident
happened in October 2016, but I find the documentary evidence, which is closer in time
to  the  incident,  is  more  accurate  as  stating  the  actual  date  in  2015.)  He  suffered  a
traumatic  brain  injury  and  severe  physical  injuries.  He  spent  approximately  a  year  in
hospitals and rehabilitation, both for physical therapy and occupational therapy. He was
out  of  work and  living  on  his  savings  and  worker’s  compensation  from  the  date  of  the
accident  until  May  2019.  Eventually,  Applicant  received  a  monetary  recovery  from  his
employer in the amount of approximately $450,000 in damages for his injuries. Applicant
put $350,000 of the recovery into an annuity that provides him with approximately $1,000
of income very month. (Tr. 17-19, 37-40, 49-50, 57-59.)
Applicant’s third  wife  filed for divorce in August 2017, during his recovery. They
were divorced in January 2018. The divorce decree required Applicant to make a large
monetary settlement with his ex-wife. Applicant also became responsible for credit card
debts that were incurred by his ex-wife in Applicant’s name. (Applicant Exhibit F; Tr. 40,
57-58.)
Due to his extended period of unemployment after his accident, Applicant became
extremely leery of being caught without cash in case he faced unemployment again. He
was also concerned about the effect of the COVID pandemic on his employment at the
remote location. Accordingly, Applicant has cash in his bank account. (Applicant Exhibit
K.) He stressed that this is almost all of his savings, and he is frugal in using his money
to  pay  off  his delinquent  debts.  Starting  in  March  2022,  when  he  felt  financially  stable
enough to do so, he began paying the debts one at a time, starting with the smallest and
moving his way up. (Tr. 19, 53-54, 67-71, 76-77.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline with explanations.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant had ten charged-off or past-due consumer debts
in the total amount of approximately $39,564. Applicant is also alleged to owe back child
support of approximately $4,472. The existence and amount of the debts is supported by
credit reports dated February 29, 2020; and May 2, 2022. They are also supported by
Applicant’s statements to an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management  on
May  7,  2020;  and  his  responses  to  interrogatories  issued  to  him  by  the  DoD  CAF  on
August 20, 2021. (Government Exhibits 2, 3, 4, and 5.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a. Applicant admitted that he owed $23,470 for a collection account with a credit
union. This is Applicant’s largest debt, and it dates to his third marriage and the period of
recovery from his injuries. As stated, Applicant worked at paying off his smaller debts first
and working towards the largest ones. Now that all the debts from 1.c to 1.k have been
paid or resolved his plan was to begin paying this debt and 1.b after the record closed.
(Applicant Exhibit G at 2; Tr. 46-53.) This debt is not resolved, but Applicant has a plan
to resolve it.
1.b. Applicant admitted that he owed $10,262 for a collection account with a credit
card company. This is Applicant’s second-largest debt, and it dates to his third marriage
and the period of recovery from his injuries. Now that all the debts from 1.c to 1.k have
been  paid  or  resolved  his  plan  was  to  begin  paying  this  debt  and  1.a  after  the  record
closed. (Applicant Exhibit G at 2; Tr. 53.) This debt is not resolved, but Applicant has a
plan to resolve it.
1.c. Applicant admitted that he was past-due on his child support obligations in the
amount of $4,472. He supplied documentation showing that he is now current with his
child support obligations. The records also show  that his child support is  automatically
withdrawn from his bank account every month. This debt has been resolved. (Applicant
Exhibits C, F, and H; Tr. 59-62.)
1.d. Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a bank in the amount of
$3,094. He reached a payment arrangement with the creditor and paid the debt off in July
2022, as shown in documentation from the collection agent. (Applicant Exhibit J; Tr. 19,
72.) This debt is resolved.
1.e. Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a bank in the amount of
$700. He reached a payment arrangement with the creditor and paid the debt off in July
2022, as shown in documentation from the bank. (Applicant Exhibit I; Tr. 19, 72-73.) This
debt is resolved.
1.f.  Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a department store in the
amount of $636. Applicant stated in Applicant Exhibit A that he had paid this debt over
the telephone and provided a confirmation number from the creditor. Applicant Exhibit H
shows a withdrawal from Applicant’s bank account in the amount of $636.08. He stated
in Applicant Exhibit L that as of August 30, 2022, he was awaiting a zero-balance letter
from the creditor that was to arrive after the record closed. Based on the totality of the
evidence,  including  documentation  from  Applicant  confirming  other  statements  about
telephone payments, I find that this debt is resolved. (Tr. 19, 72.)
1.g. Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a bank in the amount of
$587. He reached a payment arrangement with the creditor and paid the debt off in July
2022, as shown in documentation from the collection agent. (Applicant Exhibit J; Tr. 19,
72.) This debt is resolved.
1.h. Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a telephone provider in
the amount of $561. Applicant stated in Applicant Exhibit A that he had paid this debt over
the telephone and provided a confirmation number from the creditor. Based on the totality
of  the  evidence,  including  documentation  from  Applicant  confirming  other  statements
about telephone payments, I find that this debt is resolved. (Tr. 19, 72.)
1.i.  Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a telephone provider in the
amount of $101. He reached a payment arrangement with the creditor’s collection agent
and paid the debt off, as shown in documentation from the collection agent. (Applicant
Exhibit N; Tr. 19, 72.) This debt is resolved.
1.j. Applicant admitted  that he  owed  a  past-due  debt to  a  medical  provider in  the
amount of $100. He reached  a  payment arrangement with  the  creditor’s collection agent
and  paid  the  debt  off,  as shown  in documentation  from  the  collection  agent.  (Applicant
Exhibit M;  Tr. 19, 72.) This debt is resolved.
1.k.  Applicant admitted that he owed a past-due debt to a medical provider in the
amount of $53. He indicated in Applicant Exhibits A and M that the debt had been written
off  by the  creditor and  there was no  longer an  active  account.  Based  on  the  state  of the
record, including  Applicant’s successful attempts to  resolve other debts, I find  that this
debt is no longer in  existence,  (Tr. 19, 72.)
Applicant’s  current  financial  status  is  stable.  Other than  the  accounts  described
above he has no delinquent debt. He is able to pay his current debts without difficulty.
Department  Counsel  indicated  concern  over  an  alleged  past-due  mortgage  loan  that
appeared on Government Exhibit 4. Applicant stated that he was not delinquent on this
mortgage  and  that  the  property  had  been  deeded  to  his  ex-wife.  He  provided
documentation from the bank stating that Applicant’s loan had been paid in full. (Applicant
Exhibits D and F; Tr. 63-66.)
Mitigation
Applicant’s  manager  provided  two  statements  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  In  one  he
states, “[Applicant] helped create and build a unique position in a remote and challenging
OCONUS location and he performs with skill, knowledge and experience and continually
contributes to the mission. . . [Applicant] would be exceptionally difficult to replace.” He
strongly recommends Applicant for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibits B and E.)
