Under Guideline F, the  September 30, 2021 SOR alleged four delinquent debts
totaling  $65,514.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d.)  Applicant  admitted
those  allegations  with
explanations. (AA.) In his Answer, he stated, in part: “Items A, B, C and D [of the SOR]
are all being actively paid and my credit-repair specialist and I are working with debtors
to pay this debt.” (AA.) At the hearing, it was established that he had made no payments
to the three creditors with the largest balances since the summer of 2019. And there were
and are no payment plans in place for any one of the four SOR creditors. Those debts
are still delinquent.  (Tr. 30-43.)
Applicant is 40  years old,  married  since  January 2005, and  has two  daughters ages
18  and  14. He is a  college  graduate  (December 2010). He  served  on  active  duty  in the
U.S. Marine  Corps from  June  2008  until March 2011, when  he  was honorably discharged
for medical reasons.  (GE  1.) He  was  unemployed  from  March  2020  until October 2020,
when  he began working  full time  for his current employer, a defense contractor. (Tr. 22.)
Before his current employer, Applicant worked for his prior employer, (AN), from
May 2010 until they parted ways by mutual agreement  with severance in March 2020.
(Tr. 27-28; GE 1.) He started at AN as a help desk technician and by the time he left, he
had been promoted to the chief digital officer over his 10 years. (Tr. 23.) He and the new
CEO disagreed over the role digital technology should play in their business. In addition,
COVID hit the business, shutting down many other companies, and wrecking the supply
chain.  The  CEO  offered  him  a  reduced  role  at  a  much  reduced  salary,  but  then  that
opportunity was gone too. (Tr. 23-25.)
Applicant and his CEO, which was the third CEO in two years, discussed a new
role for Applicant for weeks. It became apparent to him that going forward would not work.
The message he got was “here’s the door,” and he was “shown the door.” Leaving after
10 years was emotionally and professionally difficult. He had no steady income. He did
leave with a severance package that was a lump sum of five months’-salary; his annual
salary at that time was $200,000. (Tr. 25-28.)
Applicant’s salary  before leaving  was augmented annually with a 40% bonus. It
was his practice to use salary and some bonus money to pay bills and then put the rest
in savings. Now no bonus would be paid. His daughters in private school, other family
expenses, and his wife then in school reduced his income. He had two boat payments,
car payments, and his house payment. He said that with the job he just lost on short notice
he had “lived differently” than when he was “an E-5 in the Marine Corps.” He realizes that
“financial problems present security concerns for the government” (Tr. 28-30.)
SOR  ¶  1.a.  Applicant  testified  about  SOR  ¶  1.a,  a  charged-off  credit  card  for
$10,774. He recalled that the credit limit was $10,000 but could not recall when he made
the last payment. Being referred to GE 5, he testified that the last payment was made in
August 2019. He could not recall why he stopped payment after that, but he called the
creditor ahead of time to advise that he was going to stop payments. On his October 30,
2020 SCA (GE 1),  he listed  this SOR debt  and  said  that he  couldn’t pay as a  result of
being unemployed since April 2019. But in August 2019, he was still employed by AN and
was so employed until March 2020.  In his SCA, he said the debt would be paid in full
within  one  month.  Applicant  reiterated  that  he  has  not  made  any  payments  on  this
account, since August 2019, and he agreed it remains charged off. (Tr. 30-34.)
SOR  ¶  1.b.  Applicant  testified  about  SOR  ¶  1.b,  a  charged-off  credit  card  for
$18,914. He agreed this account was delinquent at the date of the SOR and is delinquent
today. He recalled that he opened this account sometime in 2018. He recalled that the
credit limit was $16,000 or $17,000. He could not recall when he made the last payment.
Being referred to GE 5, he testified that the last payment was made in June 2019. (Tr.
35-36.)
Referring to GE 5 and the SOR ¶ 1.b account, Applicant agreed that between the
October 2018 opening date and the June 2019 last payment (nine months), he incurred
$18,914 of charges. He could not recall if those charges were what caused him to stop
making payments on that account. He remembered “vaguely” that “we had a very, very
expensive summer that year . . . every intent was to pay these things off and the strategy
just didn’t work this time.” (Tr. 36-37.)
Referring  to  his  SCA (GE  1),  Applicant testified  that  he  intended  to  list the  SOR ¶
1.b  account. In  that SCA,  he  stated  that  he  could not  pay that  debt,  because  he  had  been
unemployed  since  April 2019. But  he  agreed  that  when  he  stopped  paying  this  account,
he  was  still  employed  by AN. He  also  agreed  that in his  SCA,  he  stated  that he  had  set
up   a   payment   plan   to   start   December  1,  2020.   But  in   his   January   25,  2021   Personal
Subject  Interview (PSI) (GE 2), he  was “still  in  the  process of talking  to  [the  creditor] to
make  payment arrangements.”  In  fact,  no  “payment  arrangements or payment  plans . .  .
were  ever entered  into  to  resolve this debt.”  And  no  payments have  been  made  since
June  2019. The  account remains charged  off.  (Tr. 37-39.)
SOR  ¶  1.c.  Applicant  testified  about  SOR  ¶  1.c,  a  charged  off  credit  card  for
$33,972.  He  agreed  that  this charge-off existed  and  was  delinquent  at  the  date  of  the
SOR. It remains delinquent today. He recalled that the credit limit was about $30,000 and
that GE 5 showed the limit to be $29,300. GE 5 showed the last payment in June 2019.
He  agreed  that  GE  5 showed that  between the  date opened  (June  2018) and  the  last
payment (June 2019), he charged $33,972 on this card alone, which was $4,000 over the
credit limit. (Tr. 39-40.)
Applicant  testified  that  the  bulk  of  this  credit  card  was  used  for  a  vacation  with
several other families. The trip was for his whole family and lasted about 10 days. In his
SCA (GE 1), he listed this trip as being between 11 to 20 days. He testified that this trip
cost between $20,000 and $25,000, and he returned from this trip in May 2019. A month
after he returned from this trip (June 2019), he stopped making payments on the credit
card accounts identified in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c  totaling $52,886. In his SCA, he stated
that he could not pay SOR ¶ 1.c, because he had been unemployed since April 2019. But
in June 2019, he was employed by AN. No payment plan or payment arrangements were
ever put in place to resolve this debt. The account remains charged off. (Tr. 40-43.)
Applicant was questioned about his obligations for the three credit card accounts
discussed above. He agreed with the following:
For  each  of  the  three credit  card  accounts, he  had  written  agreements  with  the
creditors.
Those agreements had a promise on his part to pay for all his charges to those
accounts.
He agreed to pay at least a minimum amount each month by the due date.
When he made purchases in person, he signed a credit card slip agreeing to abide
by the repayment terms of the cardholder agreement.
When he signed those slips, he indicated his continued agreement to pay for the
products or services he was receiving at the time.
Over the years when these accounts were active, he received goods and services
worth thousands of dollars that he never paid for.
Even though these charges have been charged off, he remains legally obligated
to pay those debts.  (Tr. 43-44.)
SOR ¶ 1.d. Applicant testified about SOR ¶ 1.d, an account in collection for $1,854.
He admitted this debt in his response to the SOR. He admitted that he is indebted to this
creditor today and that the account remains delinquent. This debt was for the purchase
of a guitar. In his PSI (GE 2), he said he would be making arrangements to resolve this
debt, but no such arrangements were ever made. (Tr. 44-46.)
Applicant testified about his current personal finances. He has no concern that his
annual salary will deviate in any way. Other than his current annual salary ($200,000), he
has two other sources of income, a 75% VA disability payment and his wife’s salary as a
social worker, $38,000 per year. His current checking account balance is $7,800 and the
balance  between  his  investment  and  savings  account  is  about  $24,000.  He  owns  two
cars. One is a 2017 model his oldest daughter drives and that he paid for in cash. The
other  is  a  2022  model  purchased  new.  The  new  car  cost  $52,000,  and  the  monthly
payment is $871.85. (Tr. 23, 46-48.)
Applicant  recently  purchased  a  home  for  $760,000.  His  monthly  mortgage
payment is $4,955. He does not support anyone else. After his monthly expenses, he has
$7,062  left.  That  money  is  split  between  savings  and  college  tuition.  He  only  has  one
active credit card. He does not owe any state or federal taxes, and he has never failed to
file his state or federal tax returns. Other than his home purchase, he has not made any
large purchases. On advice of his financial advisor, he sold both boats. He has not had
any difficulty staying current on his debts in the past year. Since receiving the SOR, he
used a credit consultant (or credit repair specialist).  (Tr. 48-51.)
Applicant introduced an exhibit identifying five accounts not alleged in the SOR.
(AG.) The record shows Applicant to be current (PAY AS AGREED) and no delinquent
amounts past due on those accounts. (GE 3-5.)
Character  Witness.  Applicant  called  a  retired  U.S.  Navy  Rear  Admiral  as  a
character witness. He is the President and Chairman of the Board of Applicant’s current
employer. He served for 36 years on reserve and active duty. In his past five or six years
of active duty, he held court martial power and was familiar with legal processes. He was
responsible  for about 600  naval service  members and  was  very involved  with  security
clearances.  In  that  position,  he  suspended  many  security  clearances  for  a  variety  of
reasons. (Tr. 15-16.)
The witness has been in his current civilian position for about two and a half years.
Applicant  was  one  of  the  very  first  hires  he  made.  When  the  witness  came  to  this
company, it needed someone really adept at business processes and how to do that from
a  digital basis.  So,  he  hired  Applicant  as  Director of  IT.  He  did  everything  the  witness
asked him to do; he helped create the business planning processes and get IT systems
in place. He did such a “phenomenally good job” that of the 10 leadership team members,
Applicant was the only one the witness has promoted. The witness has turned over half
of the work force to him. His leadership in operations includes the repair side, field service,
and maintaining IT. (Tr. 16-17.)
The  witness  testified  that  Applicant  has  been  “honest  to  a  fault” “whenever [the
witness] had any questions about how this [clearance] process is going [and they] have
had  conversations  about  it.”  The  witness  has  “not  seen  the  records,”  but  Applicant
reported  that “he  is making an honest effort to  fix an unfortunate  situation.” “A lot of us
had  difficulty  getting  through  COVID.”  The  witness  strongly  recommends  considering
granting Applicant a clearance. (Tr. 17-18.)
The  witness  was  asked  whether  at  any  time  he  felt  uncomfortable  handing
Applicant the reins of about a $60 million operations budget. The witness answered that
he has “absolutely never worried about it at all.” Applicant has built a “great relationship”
with the finance director, and Applicant “works very, very hard because . . . IT systems
can be very expensive.” Applicant has the witness’s “full faith and trust.” (Tr. 19.)
The  witness  was  asked  whether  failure  to  satisfy  debts  and  meet  financial
obligations indicates poor self-control, lack of judgment, or unwillingness to abide by rules
and  regulations.  The  witness  answered  “yes”  but  explained.  He  would  consider  the
character of the individual  and whether they were honest about the particular  situation
and were sticking to a plan. He would use the whole-person concept. He thinks Applicant
has made “sufficient progress.” He also considered this to be “a one-time deal” with no
“history of behavior like this” by Applicant. (Tr. 20-21.)
Law and Policies
It is well established that no one has a right to a security clearance. As the
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel . . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F: Financial Considerations
