In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  admitted  some  of  the  Guideline  G  allegations  in  the
SOR  and  denied  others.  He  failed  to  either admit  or  deny  the  Guideline  J  allegations.
Since the underlying allegations are the same under both Guidelines, he is deemed to
have  admitted  and  denied  the  same  allegations  under  Guideline  J  as  he  did  for
Guideline G. He admitted the Guideline B allegation, with explanations. His admissions
are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  testimony,
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  63  years  old.  He  is  divorced  and  has  two  adult  children.  He  is
currently  employed  by  a  government  contractor.  He  has  worked  for  different
government  or  defense  contractors  as  a  power  plant  technician  on  various  contracts
over the years, dating back to 2010.  Many of these contracts required his presence in
combat  zones,  such  as  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  He  was  honorably  discharged  from  the
Marine  Corps  after  serving  from  1979  to  1985.  He  has  three  associate’s  degrees.  He
held a security clearance while in the Marine Corps and at various times  while serving
as a government-contractor employee. (Tr. 7, 32-34, 39, 41; GE 1; AE A)
The SOR alleged Applicant was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) on
eight  occasions:  May 1986;  January 1989; April 1990;  April 1993;  January  2000; April
2001;  February  2002;  and  November  2019.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.h)  Department  Counsel
moved to withdraw the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.e, and 1.f. That motion was granted
and  those  withdrawals  will  be  reflected  in  my  formal  findings.  This  conduct  was  also
alleged as criminal conduct under Guideline J in the SOR. (SOR ¶ 2.a) Finally, the SOR
alleged that Applicant had a girlfriend who is a resident and citizen of Ethiopia, and for
whom he provided financial support. (SOR ¶ 3.a)
Applicant began drinking alcohol approximately two  times a week when he was
18 or 19 years old after he joined the Marine Corps. In his early 20s to 30s, his alcohol
consumption  increased  to  about  three  to  four  times  a  week.  He  stated  that  during  the
last 10 to 15 years, his alcohol consumption has decreased. He admitted that he would
often drink and become  “buzzed.”  He would drive while  he was ‘buzzed.”  He admitted
driving while drunk more times than when he was arrested. He claimed that he did not
drink  to  intoxication  between  2002  and  2019.  He  also  claimed  the  last  time  he  drank
alcohol was when he was arrested for DWI in November 2019. (Tr. 43-50)
The details of his arrests follow:
May  1986  DWI  (SOR  ¶  1.a)-Applicant  testified  that  he  and  friends  were  at  the
beach where he  had four to five beers. He  drove back home from the beach and was
stopped by law enforcement  for a traffic violation. He admitted this arrest  for DWI and
he  claimed  the  charge  was  later  reduced  to  reckless  driving.  He  was  drinking  alcohol
about four times a week at that time in his life. (Tr. 51-52; GE 3-4; SOR answer)
January  1989  DWI  (SOR  ¶  1.b)-Applicant  testified  that  he  had  been  at  a party
until  about  4:00  am  and  then  drove  home.  He  was  stopped  by  law  enforcement  for
speeding  and  weaving.  He  was  administered  field  sobriety  tests,  which  he  failed.  He
was  arrested  for  DWI  and  refused  to  take  a  breath  test.  Applicant  admitted  pleading
guilty to a misdemeanor DWI and was sentenced to two years’ probation and fined. (Tr.
53-54; GE 3-5 (pp. 6-7); SOR answer)
April  1993  DWI  (SOR  ¶  1.d)-Applicant  denied  this  arrest  in  his  answer  but
admitted  it  during  his  hearing  testimony.  Applicant  was  stopped  by  law  enforcement
after nearly colliding with a police vehicle when entering a service road. Applicant was
observed  by officers to  stagger,  lean on his  vehicle  for  support,  wobble  while  walking,
exhibit  slow  depressed  reflexes,  and  have  “thick”  speech.  Applicant  also  became
belligerent toward the responding officers, which resulted in him being handcuffed. After
transportation  to  the  station,  Applicant  was  administered  field  sobriety  tests.  He
admitted drinking two beers at home. A breath test determined his blood alcohol content
at 0.11, over the legal limit of 0.08. All Applicant’s actions at the police station related to
this arrest were videotaped. He was arrested for DWI. He pleaded not guilty in court but
was convicted of a DWI first offense in September 1993 and received a sentence of two
years’ probation and a fine. (Tr. 59-65; GE 5 (pp.- 1-3); SOR answer)
February 2002  DWI  (SOR  ¶  1.g)-Applicant denied  this arrest  in his  answer  but
admitted it during his hearing testimony. He did not recall the details of this arrest. Court
documents reveal that he pleaded guilty and was convicted of DWI in September 2002.
(Tr. 71-72; GE 3 (pp. 10-11); SOR answer)
November  2019   DWI  (SOR  ¶  1.h)-Applicant   admitted   this  arrest  in   both  his
answer  and   his  hearing   testimony.  Applicant  testified   that  he   had   just   returned   from
Afghanistan   and   went   to   a   sports   bar  where   he   had   one   beer.  In   his  SOR  answer   he
admitted  drinking  two  beers. He  was arrested  and  changed  with  DWI-3rd, a  third  degree
felony.   No  police   reports  or  court   disposition   documents  are   in  the   record.  Applicant
claimed   he   pleaded   guilty  to   a   misdemeanor  DWI  charge   and   received   a   sentence   of
probation.  Applicant  presented   documentation   from   his  probation   officer  that  he
complied  with  all  the  conditions of his probation, had  no  probation  violations, and  paid
all   of  his  financial  obligations.  His  probation   terminated   with   him   in   good   standing   in
June  2022. (Tr.  72-76;  GE 3  (p 12); SOR Answer; AE B, E)
Applicant listed in his 2020 security clearance application (SCA) attending court-
ordered alcohol counseling in 1990 and 2001, but he did not supply any documentation
about  either  program  or  detail  what  was  involved  with  these  programs,  in  terms  of
diagnoses, prognoses, or treatment plans. (GE 1)
Applicant  testified  that  he  does  not  consider  himself  an  alcoholic,  rather  he  is
“just a person that had bad luck.” He claims to attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) about
once a month, but he admitted that he does not have sponsor, nor does he work the AA
12-step  program  recommended  for  recovering  alcoholics.  He  also  claims  he  has  no
further interest in consuming alcohol. As an example, he cited that he recently attended
a family gathering where alcohol was present, but he did not consume any. (Tr. 78-81,
90)
The Guideline B allegation concerns Applicant’s relationship with a woman who
is a citizen and resident of Ethiopia. He admitted having a relationship with this woman
and providing her financial support. He was in contact with her from approximately 2017
to  2019.  He  met  her  when  he  was  in  Ethiopia,  and  she  was  a  receptionist  at  a  hotel.
From 2017  to 2019, he  provided her with approximately $1,000 per month to help  her
and her family. During this time, he was in contact with her on a weekly basis. He visited
her in Ethiopia on several occasions. The last time he was in Ethiopia was in 2019. He
ended  his  relationship  with  this  woman  in  approximately  June  2019,  when  he  came
back to the United States after his job in  Southwest Asia ended. The last contact with
her  was  in  June 2019. The  last  financial support he provided  was  in  August  2019. He
has  no  intentions  of  contacting  her,  seeing  her,  or  providing  any  additional  financial
assistance to her in the future. (Tr. 81-88)
Applicant  presented  six  character  letters  from  friends  and  colleagues.  They
describe  Applicant  as  responsible  and  someone  who  is  dedicated,  hard-working,  and
who  has  high  character.  Several  recommend  continuation  of  his  security  clearance.
Applicant  also  presented  several  awards,  certificates,  and  pictures  demonstrating  his
service to the country over the years. (AE C-D)
