In  Applicant’s  answer to the  amended  SOR, he admitted  the allegations in SOR ¶
2.d  and  3.a.  He denied  all  the  other allegations. His  admissions  are  incorporated  in  my
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 55-year-old strategic cyber-security advisor who has been employed
by  another  government  agency  (AGA)  for  about  a  year.  (Tr.  18)  He  was  previously
employed by a defense contractor as a cyber planner from August 2017 until he was hired
by  the  AGA  on  a  date  not  reflected  in  the  record.  The  SOR  was  issued  while  he  was
employed by a defense contractor.
Applicant  has  held  a  security  clearance  for  about  35  years,  working  for  various
government  agencies  as  well  as  defense  contractors.  (Tr.  20-21)  He  first  received  a
security clearance in 1992. He received a top-secret clearance in 2009 as an employee
of a defense contractor. (AX HH)
Applicant  attended  college  on  an  Army  ROTC  scholarship,  and  he  was
commissioned as an officer in the Army National Guard in May 1989. In February 1992,
he  received  an  honorable  discharge  from  the  Army  National  Guard  to  accept  a
commission in the Army Reserve. (AX MM) He served on active duty in the Army Reserve
until  he  was  released  from  active  duty  in  January  1999  and  separated  with  a  general
discharge under honorable conditions. (AX D at 1) He served in the Army Reserve again
from July 2000 to September 2002 and received an honorable discharge. (GX 11 at 16;
AX  D at  2)  He  has a 30%  disability  for service-connected  injuries. (AX  G;  AX  NN)  He
received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  1989,  a  master’s  degree  in  June  1992,  and  a
master’s in business administration in May 2001.
At the hearing, Applicant submitted testimonials from numerous co-workers and
supervisors  in  the  cyber-security  field.  He  is  highly  regarded  for  his  technical  skills,
leadership, and understanding of foreign policy. (AX A; AX OO)
The amended SOR alleges multiple falsifications (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.e-2.i), other
personal conduct  (SOR ¶¶ 2.b-2.d) under Guideline E, and foreign  influence  concerns
under Guideline B (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.c). The evidence pertaining to the allegations in the
amended SOR is summarized below.
SOR  ¶   2.b.   On   November   19,   1998,   while   Applicant   was   on   active   duty,   he
received   nonjudicial punishment  under Article  15,  Uniform   Code   of   Military Justice,  10
U.S.C. § 815,  on  July 19, 1998, for violation  of a  general order by being  in  an  off-limits
club, engaging  in  private  employment  at  the  off-limits club, committing  an  indecent act
with  a  female  stripper, and  ejecting  the  female  stripper from  his apartment while she  was
naked  above  the  waist.  Initially, he  was charged  with  conduct unbecoming  an  officer and
false  swearing,  but   those   offenses   were   not  reflected   in   the   record  of   nonjudicial
punishment.  His punishment  was  forfeiture  of  $1,600  pay  per month  for  two  months and
restriction to his quarters and  the  military installation  for 60 days. (GX 4)
Applicant testified that he was out-processing when the misconduct occurred, and
it  delayed  his  separation.  (Tr.  47)  He  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge  under
honorable conditions on January 27, 1999. (AX D)
SOR  ¶¶   2.a,  2.f,   and 2.g.  When   Applicant   submitted   SCAs   in   November 2007,
August 2014, and  December 2018, he  answered  “No” to  a  question  asking  if he  had  ever
had  a  security  clearance   suspended  or revoked.  His clearance  was suspended  in  July
1998   while  the   conduct  alleged   in  SOR  ¶   2.b   was   being   investigated,  but  he   did  not
disclose  the  suspension  of  his clearance  in any of  the  SCAs. (GX 2  at 64;  GX  10  at 30;
GX  11  at 77) On  August 11, 1999, an  attorney acting  on  his behalf requested  that his
clearance be reinstated. His clearance was  reinstated  on May 19, 2001. (GX 7)
At the hearing, Applicant testified: “I took the question as asking about operational
suspension, and I did not remember any at the time. Because it happened between out-
processing from one unit and in-processing into another unit, I did not consider it to be an
operational  suspension,  and  I  forgot  about  it  completely  as  a  reportable  event.”  He
admitted at the hearing that he now understands that he should have disclosed it. (Tr. 25)
SOR  ¶  2.c.  On  January  25,  1999,  Applicant  opened  a  checking  account  with  a
bank on an overseas military installation and deposited a worthless check for $2,050. He
represented  on  a  signature  authorization  card  that  he  was  scheduled  to  return  from
overseas in May 2000, knowing that he was scheduled to depart on  January 26, 1999,
the day after he opened the account. He reimbursed the bank after being contacted by
law enforcement authorities. He was not prosecuted. (GX 5)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he had no recollection of this incident. (Tr.
28, 49) To support his claim of a lack of memory, he submitted evidence that in December
2021, he was evaluated by his physician for chronic stroke that was discovered during a
brain  scan.  His  physician  noted  that  about  50%  of  stroke  patients  have  memory
impairment. (AX X.) Applicant is currently taking a prescription drug to enhance memory.
(Tr. 78; AX KK; AX LL)
SOR  ¶  2.d.  In  January  2003,  Applicant  was  charged  with  obstructing  a  public
officer, disorderly conduct involving drugs or alcohol, and disturbing the peace by loud
and  unreasonable  noise.  In  March  2003,  he  entered  a  nolo  contendere  plea.  He  was
convicted, fined, required to pay restitution, and placed on probation for two years. (GX
9; Tr.28) In November 2012, he filed a petition for dismissal of the charges. His petition
was granted in January 2013. The plea and finding of guilt were set aside and vacated.
A plea of not guilty was entered and the charges were dismissed. (AX JJ; AX PP; AX QQ;
AX RR)
SOR ¶ 2.e. When Applicant submitted an SCA in November 2007, he answered
“No”  to  the  questions  asking:  “Have  you  even  been  charged  with  or  convicted  of  any
offense(s) related to alcohol or drugs”; and, “In the last 7 years, have been arrested for,
charged  with,  or  convicted  of  any  offense(s)  not  listed  in  response  to  a,  b,  c,  d,  or  e
above?” He did not disclose that he was charged with alcohol-related conduct in January
2003. He testified that his attorney incorrectly advised him that a nolo contendere plea
would result in the entire proceeding being expunged from his record. (Tr. 28) He did not
provide any documentation of his lawyer’s advice.
SOR  ¶  2.h.  In  December  2010,  a  company  that  Applicant  had  founded  and
operated filed a lawsuit in British courts against several companies doing business in Iraq,
seeking damages for violation of the oil rights of Applicant’s company. In December 2013,
a  British  court  ruled  that  the  claim  “failed  on  every  point,”  and  ordered  Applicant’s
company  to  reimburse  the  defendants  for  their  costs.  In  a  subsequent  proceeding  in
October 2014, the High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court, the
Court adopted a summary of the December 2013 findings submitted by a British barrister,
including  a  finding  that  Applicant  “told  lies and  misleading  statements from  the  outset.”
(GX 12 at 13) The record does not reflect what statements were made or the context in
which they were made. At the hearing, Applicant submitted evidence that the founder and
chief executive officer of one of the defendants in the British case was a U.S. citizen who
was indicted in January 2022 in a U. S. federal court for wire fraud and money laundering.
He was subsequently convicted, pursuant to a plea agreement, of five counts of willful
failure  to file  individual income  tax  returns  on  income  of  more  than  $20  million earned
through the business that Applicant sued. (AX U; AX Y; AX II)
SOR  ¶  2.i.  In  the  December  2018  SCA,  Applicant  answered  “No”  a  question
asking, if in the last seven years, he had been fired, quit after being told he would be fired,
or left by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance.  He did not
disclose that he was terminated from a job in December 2015. In his SCA, he stated that
he  left  this job for a  “professional opportunity.” (GX 2 at 17) At the hearing, he testified
that he had an issue with a supervisor, was given the option of moving to another position,
declined the offer, and sought employment elsewhere. He testified that he was informed
by this employer that his declination would not be recorded as a termination. (Tr. 33-34)
The employer’s records reflect that he was involuntarily terminated. However, the same
record  reflects  that  he  was  eligible  for  rehire.  (GX  13)  Applicant’s  explanation  for  his
termination is supported by the employer’s records showing that he was eligible for rehire.
(GX 13 at 2) I conclude that his negative answer to this question was not  intentionally
false.
SOR  ¶  3.a.  Applicant  is  married  to  a  citizen  of  Canada.  His  spouse  is  a  trade
advisor  for  Canada,  employed  at  the  Canadian  Embassy  since  August  2001.  She
attended college in the United States from August 1998 to May 2001, obtained a college
degree, holds a green card, and intends to become a U.S. citizen. (AX E; Tr. 19) She and
Applicant began cohabiting in March 2013 and recently married on a date not reflected in
the record. (GX 2 at 25)
SOR  ¶   3.c.   Around   2012,   Applicant  met   an   Iraqi   diplomat  who   was  promoting
investments  in   Iraq.  In   Applicant’s  December  2018   SCA,   he   stated   that  he   met  the
diplomat at a  reception  at the  Embassy of Iraq, and  they became  social friends  and  met
for cocktails on  multiple  occasions.  He stated  that they  visited  when  the diplomat  became
a  member of the  Iraqi delegation  to  the  United  Nations in December 2013.  (GX 2  at 40)
He  testified  that they  stopped  meeting  around  2014,  met  once  in  2017, and  have  not  met
since  early 2020. He  testified  that when  he  was employed  by  an  AGA,  he  disclosed  his
previous contacts  with  the  Iraqi diplomat  to  his  facility security officer  (FSO), and  did  not
make  any further contacts after 2020, because  he  received  no  guidance  from  his FSO.
(Tr. 69-73).
Applicant’s  report  to  his  FSO,  dated  September  1,  2020,  includes  the  following
comments:
I  would  note   that  I  already  reported   this  individual  as  being   an   ongoing,
although  intermittent foreign  contact six years ago. I had  not heard from  this
individual in some  time, but we remain old friends from  his previous time  as
a junior diplomat in Washington. I had understood his wife and child were
living in Virginia. I assume they still are. I would note the directions above
state  that  a  report  should  be  made  using  this  form  if  a  foreign  person  is
“inquiring about classified or sensitive” information. By way of clarification,
this did not happen. Rather, I am filing out this form as directed by my FSO
after reporting the contact IAW company SOP.
(AX GG)
I have  taken  administrative notice   that the  United  States and  Canada  share the
world’s  longest   international  border,   and   the   defense   arrangements  between   the   two
countries  are  more  extensive  than   any  other  countries.  They  work  to   enhance   and
accelerate  the  legitimate  flow  of  people, goods, and  services between  the two countries.
The  two  countries are indispensable allies in the  defense  of North  America. They share
deeply  integrated   economies  and   enjoy   the   largest   bilateral  trade   and   investment
relationship  in the  world.  There is no  evidence  that Canada  targets the  United States for
economic or military intelligence.
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  that  Iraq  is  now  a  key  partner  for  the  United
States in the region and is considered by the United States as a voice of moderation and
democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  benefits  from  functioning  government  institutions,
including an active legislature, and plays an increasingly constructive role in the region.
The  United  States  maintains  vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,
political,  economic,  and  security  issues  in  accordance  with  the  U.S.-Iraq  Strategic
Framework Agreement (SFA). The SFA between Iraq and the United States provides the
foundation  for  the  U.S.-Iraq  bilateral  relationship.  Covering  a  wide  range  of  bilateral
issues,  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,  defense  and  security,  trade  and
finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,  services,  science,  culture,
education, and environment, it emphasizes the important relationship and common goals
the two countries share
U.S.  bilateral  assistance   to   Iraq   focuses  on   economic  reform,   assistance   to
vulnerable   groups,  and   democracy   and   governance.   The   U.S.   continues   to   help
strengthen  the  capacity of Iraq’s civil society organizations and  elected  representatives.
U.S. bilateral assistance  aims not only to  bolster Iraq’s democratic institutions, but also to
preserve the  strategic, political, and  economic  importance  of the  U.S.-Iraq  partnership  in
a changing Middle East region.
Sectarian  militias  and  insurgent  groups  remain  active  in  Iraq,  attacking  Iraqi
security forces and civilians and U.S. interests. Iraq remains a dangerous place due to
terrorism, kidnapping, armed conflict, civil unrest, COVID-19, and the ability of the U.S.
Embassy’s  limited  capacity  to  provide  support  to  U.S.  citizens.  The  U.S.  State
Department’s Travel Advisory is Level 4 (“do not travel”).
