Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  civilian  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional
findings of fact follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  April  2012  and  divorced  in  December  2015.  (GE  1;  Tr.36)
He has two children from this marriage. (GE 1; Tr. 30) He remarried in February 2020
and has a four-year-old daughter and stepson (age  11) from his first marriage. (GE 1;
Tr. 37-38; 40-41) Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in October 2020. (GE 1)
Applicant enlisted in the Marine Corps in September 1995 and served four years
of  active  duty  before  receiving  an  honorable  discharge  in  September  1999.  (GE  1)  In
October 1999, he enlisted in the Army and served  15 years of active duty. (GE 1)  His
service  included  multiple  deployments  to  war  zones.  (Tr.  33)  Applicant  received  an
honorable discharge in September 2015. (GE 1)
Since November 2019, Applicant has been employed by a local school district as
a  Reserve  Officers  Training  Corps  (ROTC)  instructor.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  A;  Tr.  44-45)
Between  September  2015  and  October  2029  (save  for  two  months  of  reported
unemployment  between  January  2019  and  March  2019),  he  worked  for  other  non-
defense employers in various jobs. (GE 1) He has held a security clearance since June
2014. (GE 1)
Applicant’s finances
Following his Army discharge in 2015, Applicant encountered financial difficulties.
(GEs 1-5; Tr. 49) Problems that weakened his finances included his recurrent difficulties
in  finding  work  in  the  months  following  his  Army  discharge.  With  increased  family
burdens,  very  limited  resources,  and  a  strained  marriage  that  ultimately  ended  in
divorce,  he  was  able  to  afford  only  basic  necessities  (like  his  mortgage,  food,  and
utilities. etc.). (Applicant’s response; Tr. 32)
Between 2015 and 2021,  Applicant accumulated 15 delinquent  consumer debts
exceeding $48,000. (GEs 1-5) During this five-year period, he also accrued back child
support  obligations  to  his  first  wife  in  the  amount  of  $2,955.  (GE  2  and  Applicant’s
response)  While  he  has  since  addressed  some  of  the  listed  SOR  debt  delinquencies
(six  in  all  to  date,  inclusive  of  his  back  child  support  obligations),  for  the  most  part  he
has not paid or resolved the bulk of the covered SOR debts.
Debts  Applicant  has addressed  to  date  are  comprised  of  the  following: SOR  ¶¶
1.a  (a $10,459  finance  debt  through  a  payment agreement  in  which  Applicant has  made
three   payments  of   $342   a   month   in  compliance   with   the   agreement’s   terms);  1.b
(through   a   settlement   agreement   with   the   creditor   that  calls  for  monthly   payments   of
$293, beginning  in February 2023);  1.f  (payoff  of  settled  $993  credit card account);  1.j
(payoff  of $993 debt for reduced  $600  amount) (AE  F; Tr. 51-55); 1.m  (payment in  full of
a $214  utility debt); and  1.n  (payment in full  of a  $156  finance  debt). (AE  I) Applicant is
also  credited   with   paying   off   his   $2,955   back   child   support   debt  and   bringing   his   child
support obligations  to  his first wife  into  a current status. (AE H)
In  hopes  of  resolving  his  delinquent  accounts  with  SOR  creditors  1.i,  Applicant
retained  a  debt  negotiating  firm  in  February  2023  to  help  him  resolve  his  delinquent
balance with the creditors 1.a, 1.f, and 1k. (AE G) While settlement results have been
positive  in  resolving  his  SOR  1.a  and  1.f  debts,  his  settlement  efforts  have  not  been
fruitful  to date for resolving his SOR 1.k debt and the other still outstanding delinquent
accounts listed in the SOR..
Still, Applicant’s payment efforts remain a work in progress, despite his apparent
financial ability to make more inroads into resolving his remaining delinquent accounts.
He  reported  current  net  monthly  income  of  $7,332.  (AEs  A-B;  Tr.  39)  With  his  wife’s
reported net monthly income of $4,000, he reported a combined net monthly income of
$11,332. (AE B) His reported individual monthly expenses of $3,636, and his combined
monthly family expenses are $5,795. (AE B)
Based  on  these  furnished  figures,  Applicant  retains  an  individual  monthly
remainder in excess of $3,650 and a combined monthly family remainder in excess of
$5,500.  (AE  B)  For  additional  resources  should  he  need  them  in  addressing  his
delinquent  accounts,  he  can  always  access  his  listed  family  available  savings  of
$17,000 and 403(b) savings of $3,500. (AE B) Why he has not been able to make more
progress in paying  and resolving his delinquent accounts with the monetary resources
available to him is neither clear nor reconcilable with his claims of limited resources to
address his debts.
Applicant’s domestic violence incident
In  February  2022,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Assault  Class  C-
Family  Violence  and  Interference  with  Public  Duties.  (GEs  6-7)  The  police  report
covering the underlying incident includes a police narrative of an officer responding to a
complaint from a friend at a local bar who claimed Applicant assaulted his wife in a bar
and had her in a headlock. (GE 7)
Disputing the police narrative of Applicant’s having his wife in a headlock during
a heated argument inside the bar, Applicant insisted the police narrative represented a
misunderstanding of what was actually taking place between Applicant and his wife on
the  night  of  the  incident.  (Applicant’s  response;  Tr.  92-93)  Disputing  the  claims  of  the
witness  at the  scene and  the police narrative,  Applicant characterized  his argument  in
the bar as a discussion with his wife and nothing more. (Tr. 92) He assured that it was
never his intention to instigate any disturbance in the facility or cause any harm to his
wife.  (Tr,  92-93)  Missing  from  Applicant’s  account  of  the  reported  incident  is  why  he
found it necessary to place his wife in a headlock. Was it something in their discussion
that Applicant found to be provocative or threatening from his wife that prompted him to
respond  defensively to  her?  Or  did  he  simply  overreact  to  something  his  wife  said  or
did  that  provoked  him?  No  clear  answers  are  available  without  more  clarifying
information from Applicant and his spouse.
from  Applicant’s  wife,  clarifying  explanations  of  all  of
Because the limited police narrative of the friend’s testimony, their own struggle
with Applicant to separate him from the bar staff’s holds on him, and the absence of any
probative  accounts
the
circumstances  surrounding  the  cited  friend’s  observations  of  Applicant’s  imposing
physical  restraints  on  his  wife  cannot  be  reliably  assessed.  All  the  responding  police
have in their report is the friend’s reported observations of Applicant’s having his wife in
a  headlock  and  the  bar  staff’s  attempts  to  remove  Applicant  from  the  premises  while
police  were  still  in  the  bar  investigating  the  incident.  Attempts  by  responding  police  to
make contact with Applicant’s wife on multiple occasions to take photographs of her and
elicit more details from her about the bar incident were unsuccessful. (GE 7)
Without  photographs  and  statements  of  Applicant’s  wife,  or  a  court  hearing  or
other public forum to sort out and validate the  accounts of the respective parties to the
2022  bar  incident,  reliable  factual  assessments  cannot  be  made  of  the  observed
restraints Applicant placed on his wife. In Applicant’s favor, he has no prior arrest record
to  compare  and  evaluate  any  dispositions  for  violence  on  his  part.  But  without  any
photographs or personal accounts of the incident from his wife to weigh in juxtaposition
to  the  witness  statements  in  the  police  report,  reliable  interpretations  of  what  fully
transpired between Applicant and his wife cannot be made.
Further police attempts to elicit photographs and details of the 2022 bar incident
from  Applicant’s  wife  were  unsuccessful.  And,  ultimately,  the  case  was  dismissed
summarily  by  a  state  court  hearing  the  matter  without  any  assigned  reasons  for
dismissing the pending charges against Applicant.
Endorsements
Applicant  is  well  regarded   by  a  senior   ROTC   instructor   who   worked   with
Applicant over the  course  of  the  previous five  years  and  found  him  to  be  honorable  and
trustworthy.   (Tr.   26-27)   Aware   of  the   reported   circumstances   associated   with   the
incident   that   resulted   in  Applicant’s   arrest   and   charges,   he   considered   any  charged
conduct against  Applicant “to  be “out of his character”  and  a  source  of surprise. (Tr. 26-
27)   Expounding   on   his  assessments  of   Applicant’s  character,   his  district  supervisor.
(himself  a   retired   Army  sergeant  with   over  22   years  of  military   service)  considered
Applicant to be a  great mentor “for the kids and the  program.”  (Tr. 26)
Others  who  know  and  have  worked  with  Applicant  credit  him  with  exemplifying
the  highest  levels  of  trust  and  reliability.  (AE  J)  The  senior  Army  Instructor  (a  retired
Army LTC) and Applicant’s direct supervisor at  the high school where Applicant  works
credited Applicant  with being “the epitome of a JROTC instructor.”  (AE J) He stressed
the  high  respect  and  trust  that  Applicant  has  earned  from  the  school’s  staff  and
administration,  and  most  of  all  from  the  students  who  he  mentors.  (AE  J)  Applicant  is
equally well regarded by community leaders who have worked closely with Applicant in
a community project that raises money to meet the housing needs of military veterans.
(AE J) While the project founder who works with Applicant expressed profound respect
for his commitment to the project’s goals and his role as an ROTC instructor, he made it
very clear that he did not condone Applicant’s actions  in the noted bar incident.
Joining  others  in  assessing  Applicant’s  good  character  was  Applicant’s  wife.
Without  mentioning  the  bar  incident,  she  extolled  his  virtues  as  a  devoted  husband,
father, and “person of the highest moral and ethical standards  .  .  . ,” who consistently
leads by example. (AE J) She went on to credit Applicant with being an excellent mentor
and  role  model for his students, who  regularly  “demonstrates  strong  ethical  and moral
values and leads by example.”  (AE J) His wife closed with her description of Applicant
as “a great and positive influential human being.” (AE J)
