Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegations  in  his  Answer.  He  is  31  years  old,
unmarried,  and  he  does  not  have  any  children.  He  earned  his  high  school  diploma  in
2012. He worked part time for a gas station convenience store from July 2012 to April
2013 before enlisting in the U.S. Army in April 2013. Beginning in September 2018, he
worked  as  an  Information  Security  Service  Officer  for  a  DOD  subcontractor  while  on
terminal leave from the U.S. Army. He was fired from that position in February 2020, as
further  discussed  below.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  another  DOD
contractor,  since a date  not in the  record. He  was first granted a security  clearance  in
approximately 2013. (Items 1-4)
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E,  and  cross  alleges  under  Guideline  F,  that
Applicant overstated 52 hours in labor charges amounting to $4,223, while working for a
DOD subcontractor between December 2019 and February 2020, and his employment
was  consequently  terminated.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  2.a)  This  allegation  is  established  by  a
February 2020 incident report from the Defense Information System for Security (DISS)
Case  Adjudication  Tracking  System  (CATS)  and  an  April  2020  disclosure  report
submitted by the DOD subcontractor to the DOD Office of the Inspector General. (Items
1, 5-6)
Internal investigations conducted by both the DOD contractor and subcontractor
identified Applicant’s overstated labor charges, as alleged in the SOR. Applicant had no
previous issues or infractions. His government branch head reported, however, that he
had  been  coming  in  late,  leaving  early,  sleeping  at  work,  and  delivering  poor  work.
(Items 5-6)
During Applicant’s October 2020 background interview, Applicant maintained that
he  never  falsified  his  timecard.  He  indicated  that  he  neither  attempted  to  claim  extra
time nor did he claim time when he was made to stay late to make up for time that he
was  accused  of  owing  the  company  for  breaks.  He  described  a  culture  in  which  his
then-supervisor  rotated  employees’  lunch  breaks,  timed  his  lunches  and  breaks,  and
made him stay after work to make up for time he took for his breaks. He complied with
the internal investigation, and he indicated that he disclosed his termination on his SCA.
He also indicated that he did not have any other employment incidents. (Item 4)
During  his  September  2014  background  interview,  Applicant  indicated  that  he
always  followed  security  procedures.  In  his Answer,  Applicant denied  disobeying  rules
or guidelines, and stated that he follows all rules and guidelines of which he is informed.
He also denied failing to live within his means, and he stated that he was current on his
car loan payments and his mortgage. (Items 1, 3)
