Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.  He  denied  the  SOR
allegations  in ¶¶ 1.c, 2.a and 2.b.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into the findings of
fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. He married in 2015 for the fourth time. He has one adult
child from his first marriage and two minor children from  his third marriage. He shares
parental custody with his ex-wife. He has been employed by a federal contractor since
April 2020. (Transcript (Tr.) 14-19, 60-62)
In  February  1995,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  ability
impaired  with  a  blood  alcohol  concentration  (BAC)  over  .05%  but  less  than  .08%  and
driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI). He was found guilty of DUI. Applicant testified
that he was with friends watching a football game over three to four hours and consumed
some alcohol. He then drove and another car lost control and collided with Applicant head
on.  He  admitted  to  the  police  that  he  had  consumed  alcohol  and  a  breathalyzer  was
administered, which recorded his BAC. The actual BAC is unknown, but it was less than
.08%. Applicant has not had any other alcohol-related incidents. (Tr. 20-21)
Applicant saw his same family doctor from 2010 to 2020 until he moved to a new
state. In approximately 2014, Applicant began experiencing anxiety. He was in a stressful
job that required him to dismiss other employees. He said it was not the job he had agreed
to when he was hired. The stress of the job was affecting his health. He was treated by
his family doctor and diagnosed with general anxiety. He was prescribed medication in
2014, which helped relieve his symptoms. When the stressors diminished, he felt better.
Although he saw his family doctor on a regular basis, his appointments were not always
related to stress, but were also for other medical reasons. Applicant credibly testified that
he was not treated for anxiety from 2014 to 2019 as is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, but rather
acute situations periodically created stress and anxiety which were then treated. These
were not chronic conditions but more related to situational factors. When the stressors
decreased, his anxiety diminished. (Tr. 31-33)
In  May  2017,  Applicant  recognized  he  was  consuming  too  much  alcohol  and
voluntarily sought treatment. He attributed his consumption to a period when he and his
ex-wife were dealing with custody of their children. He shared custody of his children with
his ex-wife and had the children every other week. For a period, his older child lived with
him. His ex-wife’s husband was transferred to a new location and visitation became more
difficult for him. Applicant was close to his children and missed them. He credibly testified
that the family court ruled that both parents were fit to have legal custody of the children.
However,  due  to  his  ex-wife’s  geographical  move,  he  asked  his  children  where  they
wanted to live, and they chose to stay with their mother. Applicant continues to visit them
regularly, and they have a good relationship. (Tr. 22-25, 38; GE 4, 5)
Applicant voluntarily admitted himself into a five-day detoxification program in May
2017.  He  was  diagnosed  with  Alcohol  Dependence.  He  testified  that  he  started
consuming alcohol and he gradually increased the amount he was consuming up to a full
bottle of alcohol a day before he sought treatment. He admitted he was a heavy drinker
for about a year before admitting himself to the detoxification program. He testified that
he was physically dependent on alcohol when he entered the program.  He said that at
the recommendation of the treatment center, he participated in outpatient treatment for
six  months  until  the  program  was  completed.  He  participated  in  Alcoholic  Anonymous
(AA) as part of the after-care program. He went to two to three meetings a week at the
time. He has not participated in AA since then. He said it was not the right program for
him. He stated that as the physical dependence decreased, his depression improved, and
alcohol was no longer an issue. (Tr. 25-26, 38-44, 54-55; GE 4, 5)
Applicant testified that he abstained from alcohol consumption for about six months
after the detoxification program. He then occasionally had a drink if he was on vacation
or having a special dinner, but he was not consuming it daily. He no longer craved it. He
established a moderate drinking pattern. (Tr. 26)
Applicant was on medical leave from his job for anxiety prior to May 2016.When
his medical leave was terminated, he was unemployed until May 2017. He said he did not
drink  while  he  was  working.  He  was  terminated  from  his  job  because  he  was  taking
medical leave related to anxiety and the stressors associated with the expectations of the
job, which he could not perform. He admitted that when he was denied further medical
leave, it likely had an impact on his drinking. (Tr. 44-45)
In 2019, Applicant requested medical leave from his employer related to the stress
and anxiety  that he  was  experiencing due to  custody issues with his children.  He was
also moving to a new state for a position that was a significant distance from where his
children were living. He attempted to work remotely to be closer to his children, but his
request was denied. Applicant testified that in the past he has used alcohol to manage
depression,  anxiety,  stress,  and  physical  pain.  He  has  learned  from  his past  mistakes
when he tried to resolve his problems by himself. He now knows when he needs to reach
out for help. He recognizes the triggers that impact his decisions and he attended therapy
during his child custody case. He is presently not participating in treatment. (Tr. 30-31,
56-57)
In late 2021, Applicant was experiencing a serious physical medical condition and
he was using alcohol to relieve the pain for about two to three months in the evenings to
help him sleep. He admitted he was self-medicating. He said his doctor was aware that
he  was  consuming  alcohol.  His  doctor  did  not  believe  he  was  becoming  physically
dependent on alcohol but concurred the amount of alcohol he was consuming at the time
was excessive. (Tr. 47-50, 62-65; GE 3)
In  December  2021,  Applicant  had  surgery  for  his  medical  condition.  He  did  not
consume  alcohol  for  four  months  after  the  surgery.  Upon  a  follow-up  medical
appointment, he was told by his doctor that he could consume alcohol periodically, but
not on a regular basis because it would have a negative effect on his medical condition.
He  subsequently  consumed  alcohol  while  on  vacation.  He  testified  that  he  had  also
consumed one drink on a few other occasions, and it was a low alcohol-content beer. He
later  had  additional  medical  tests,  and  the  doctor  told  him  that  given  his  autoimmune
disorder, it would be better for his health to completely abstain from alcohol consumption.
Subsequently,  he  has  not  had  alcohol  since  May  2022.  His  wife  no  longer  consumes
alcohol. They do not have alcohol in the house. (Tr. 27-31, 50-52, 58-60; GE 3)
Applicant testified that he has found outlets to help him reduce stress. He now lives
in an area that is not as demanding. He and his wife have found a core group of friends
that are a support group, which he previously did not have. They are  also an important
social circle for him and his wife. He can talk to intimately to this group, which helps him
from internalizing issues. He has taken up woodworking and other hobbies which provide
significant help in reducing his stress. (Tr. 68-70)
Applicant testified that he does not believe he is an alcoholic, but admits he abused
alcohol in the past, and his excessive use was triggered by stressful events in his life, for
which he sought help. (Tr. 38-39)
In November 2021, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed psychologist, Dr. B. She
indicated that based on her interview, available medical records, a security investigation
file, and psychological screening that Applicant met the criteria for alcohol use disorder,
mild; major depressive disorder; panic disorder; anxiety; and narcissistic personality. The
latter she noted likely contributed to work-related difficulties. She noted he had a history
of severe alcohol use disorder, continued to consume alcohol, and he was not currently
participating  in  treatment.  She  noted  that  Applicant’s  statements  suggested  he  was
unwilling  to  acknowledge  the  psychological  components  of  his  use  disorder,  despite
statements that it was a “coping mechanism.” She opined that Applicant was unlikely to
be able to safeguard sensitive information and his judgment was poor. She opined that
Applicant appeared deceptive and dishonest and his prognosis was poor. (GE 2)
Applicant credibly testified  that  Dr. B.’s medical evaluation  consisted  of a  60-to-90-
minute  ZOOM  conference  call  during  which  the  video  connection  was disrupted, jumpy
and  choppy,  and  would  break  up  several times.  The  audio  on  the  ZOOM  call  did  not work,
so  Dr. B  had  Applicant call  her on  the  telephone. Dr. B  made  no  mention  of the  intermittent
difficulties  with   the   video   or  audio   connection   during   the   evaluation   and   its  potential
negative impact on her personal observations  of Applicant.  (Tr. 34-35, 70-71)  Of interest
was Dr. B’s comment:
He was observed to take long pauses and reduce eye contact once he was
repeatedly asked to respond to the question at hand. He also chuckled at
nearly  all  questions  presented,  despite  the  fact  that  the  questions  were
direct  and  non-humorous.  His  presentation  was  consistent  with  that  of
patients  attempting  to  present  as  self-assured,  though  actually  quite
insecure and manipulative to those around him. (GE 2)
Applicant testified that due to the connectivity difficulty with the ZOOM evaluation
and being generally nervous about having a psychological evaluation that he likely was
not his normal self. (Tr. 35-37)
Dr. B had Applicant take the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI). She stated
the following:
Validity scales indicated  that [Applicant]  was consistent and  honest  in his
response  style.  This indicated  that the  consequent profile is a   reasonable
depiction   of  the   applicant’s  self-appraisal.  There  were   no   indications  of
psychological impairment on  the  PAI clinical profile. His responses indicate
that  [Applicant’s] interests/motivation  for treatment is  comparable  to  that  of
adults who  are  not being  seen  in a  therapeutic setting.  Moreover, his level
of  treatment  motivation   is  somewhat  lower  than   is  typical  of  individuals
being  seen  in  treatment settings.  His responses suggest  that he  is satisfied
with himself as he is, that he is not experiencing marked distress, and that,
as a result, he sees little need  for changes in  his behavior.
Based on his responses, his interpersonal style seems best characterized
as  self-assured,  confident,  and  dominant.  Although  not  unfriendly,  he  is
likely  to  be  described  by  others  as  ambitious  and  having  a  “leader-like”
demeanor.  He  is  comfortable  in  social  settings,  but  is  not  likely  to  mix
indiscriminately, preferring to interact with others in situations over which he
can exercise some measure of control. (GE 2)
Dr.  B  noted  in  her  report  that  Applicant  was  not  able  to  obtain  custody  of  his
children. Her statement is inaccurate. Applicant has always had joint legal custody of his
children and continues to do so. He is involved in their lives and  participates with their
mother in decision-making for the children. (Tr. 35-36; GE 2).
Dr. B’s comments under her diagnostic impressions, note that Applicant met the
criteria for alcohol use disorder, mild, and commented “at the very least.” She noted that
it was based  on  Applicant’s self-assessment, but she found he lacked candor. He was
not  in  treatment  and  did  not  acknowledge  he  was  an  alcoholic.  She  believed  he  was
unwilling to acknowledge the components of his alcohol use disorder and his insight was
limited. She found he was “unlikely to be a reliable employee, as his work history shows.”
She determined his judgment was poor and he “appears deceptive and dishonest, putting
his trustworthiness in question” and his prognosis is “very poor.” (GE 2)
Applicant’s wife testified on his behalf. She has known Applicant since 2014. She
confirmed that Applicant does not have a current issue with alcohol. They have attempted
to reduce their stress and since moving to a new state they have been successful. She
confirmed  he  has  found  activities  to  help  him.  In  2017,  she  was  concerned  about  his
alcohol consumption, but was satisfied when he voluntarily went through detoxification.
She recognized that he had issues with anxiety, depression, and alcohol in the past, but
stated that he has addressed them. She has read the psychological report by Dr. B and
emphatically  disagrees  with  her  assessment,  especially  the  narcissism  diagnosis.  She
said the Applicant goes out of his way to be nice and puts her before himself. He strives
to do the right thing. They have a happy home and take care of each other. She and her
husband no longer consume alcohol and there is none in their home. (Tr. 74-85)
Applicant’s father testified. He acknowledged that Applicant addressed his issues
with  alcohol,  and  it  has  not  been  a  problem  in  the  past  couple  of  years.  He  believes
Applicant’s mental health  is good. He was aware  that Applicant went through a difficult
time when he was dealing with custody issues. (Tr. 87-90)
A  friend  of Applicant’s  testified  on  his behalf. They worked together at one time
and are good friends. He is aware that Applicant is applying for a security clearance. He
has no concerns about granting him access. (Tr. 91-95)
