Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c,  and  she  denied  SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.k.  She  is  34
years  old,  married,  and  has  three  minor  children.  She  was  born  in  Russia  and
immigrated to the United States in 2008, at age 18, with her mother. She was educated
in the United States, earning an associate degree in 2012, a bachelor’s degree in 2014,
and  a  Master  of  Business  Administration  degree  in  2018.  She  has  worked  in  financial
management for her employer, a DOD contractor, since April 2019. She has never held
a security clearance. (Items 1-2, 4, 15)
Applicant  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Russia  and  the  United  States.  She  became  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  March  2014.  She  was  issued  a  Russian  passport  in
December 2018, and it is not scheduled to expire until December 2023. She was issued
a  U.S.  passport  in  July  2020,  and  it  is  not  scheduled  to  expire  until  July  2030.  Her
spouse, born in Mexico, is a citizen of Mexico and a permanent resident of the United
States.  Their  three  children  are  native-born  U.S.  citizens  residing  with  them.  She  and
her spouse purchased their first home in the United States in February 2017. They sold
it  in  July  2019  and  purchased  their  current  home.  She  does  not  have  any  financial
interests in Russia. (Items 2, 4, 15)
Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident of Russia, and she provided him with
quarterly financial support as of the date of the SOR. (SOR ¶ 1.a) Her stepmother and
three  half-sisters  are  also  citizens  and  residents  of  Russia.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.c)  Her  59-
year-old  father  is  a  factory  worker,  and  her  40-year-old  stepmother  does  not  work
outside  of  the  home.  Two  of  her  half-sisters,  ages  11  and  9,  are  students,  and  her
youngest  half-sister  is  4  years  old.  She  has  weekly  telephonic  and  electronic  contact
with her father and stepmother and monthly electronic contact with her half-sisters. She
saw her family in Russia when she traveled there in 2008, 2009, and 2011. Her father
and stepmother are aware that she is seeking a national security position. (Items 2, 4,
15)
Applicant  used  Western  Union  to  send  her  father  $3,500  between  2020  and
2021, so that he could financially support his family. She stated in her Answer that she
previously sent her father quarterly financial support, and money for birthdays, holidays,
and  other  special  occasions.  She  stated  that  she  no  longer  sends  him  money,  as  he
supports  himself  with  his  job  and  his  pension,  their  communication  decreased,  and
Western Union services are lacking. She also stated that her father “doesn’t fully know
about my employment or exact company name that I work for.” (Items 2, 4, 15)
Although not alleged in the SOR, Applicant’s 60-year-old mother, born in Russia,
is a dual citizen of Russia and the United States, residing in the United States. She was
married to a native-born U.S. citizen, Applicant’s stepfather, who is recently deceased.
She has never worked in the United States. Applicant has daily to weekly in-person and
telephonic  contact  with  her  mother.  While  in  Russia  in  2017,  Applicant’s  mother
renewed her Russian passport, and it is not scheduled to expire until 2027. Applicant’s
mother  also  had  yearly  contact  with  the  Russian  consulate  in  the  United  States  from
2017  to  2020,  concerning  her  request  that  she  receive  her  pension  from  the  Russian
government in the United States. Applicant’s mother is aware that Applicant is seeking a
national security position. (Items 4, 15)
The SOR also alleged that Applicant had six delinquent consumer debts totaling
$24,212  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.f),  and  five  delinquent  medical  debts  totaling  $1,463  (SOR  ¶¶
2.g-2.k). She listed her delinquent debts in her July 2021 security clearance application
(SCA),  and  she  discussed  them  during  her  August  2021  interview  with  a  background
investigator.  The  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  2.a  through  2.j  are  reported  on  the  August  2021
credit  bureau  report  (CBR),  and  all  the  SOR  debts  are  reported  on  the  March  2022
CBR.  An  incident  report  regarding  Applicant’s  self-reported  debts  was  filed  in  the
Defense  Information  System  for  Security  (DISS)  in  June  2022,  before  the  SOR  was
issued, and the report reflected that she provided payoff letters for five unalleged debts.
She stated in her Answer that she settled and resolved all the SOR debts in June and
July  2022.  She  provided  documentation  reflecting  that  she  paid  SOR  ¶¶  2.a,  2.b,  2.d,
2.e,  and  2.f  in  June  2022.  None  of  the  SOR  debts  are  reported  on  the  October  2022
credit bureau report. (Items 2, 4-15)
Applicant  attributed  her  delinquent  debts  to  their  home  purchase  in  July  2019,
which  proved  to  be  more  expensive  than  they  originally  budgeted.  In  addition,  her
spouse experienced a reduction in hours at work, at a date not in the record, and they
incurred legal expenses related to his April 2020 charge for driving under the influence.
She also cited to the following circumstances that occurred in the several years prior to
her Answer:
I  didn’t   have   the   money  to   pay  them   on   time   due   to   some   medical
reasons,   financial  issues  due   to   my  pregnancies,   low[-]income   jobs,  high
deductible  insurance  plans with  high  co-pays  plans, mortgage, COVID-19
pandemic, and  other family circumstances that prevented  me  from  paying.
(Items 2, 4, 15)
Applicant  indicated  in  her  August  2021  background  interview  that  she  earned
$72,000  annually,  and  her  spouse  earned  $83,000  annually.  They  worked  closely
together to address their expenses, and she does not have any other delinquent debts.
There is no evidence in the record that she received credit counseling. Two individuals,
one of whom is a friend of a decade, and the other a former co-worker, attested to her
trustworthiness, reliability, and good judgment. (Items 2, 15)
Russia
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system  dominated  by
President Vladimir Putin. The bicameral federal assembly lacks independence from the
executive.  The  2018  presidential  election  and  the  2021  lower-house  elections  were
marked  by  accusations  of  government  interference  and  manipulation  of  the  electoral
process.  A  July  2020  referendum  on  constitutional  amendments  did  not  meet
internationally recognized standards, and the new constitutional amendments  provide
President Putin the opportunity to remain in power until 2036.
The  U.S.  Government  has  escalated  sanctions  on  Russia  since  2014,  in
response  to  Russia’s  incursions  into  Ukraine,  cyberattacks,  malign  influence,  use  of
chemical  weapons,  and  election  meddling.  In  its  February  2022  Annual  Threat
Assessment,  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (ODNI)  reported  that
Russia presents one of the most serious foreign influence threats to the United States,
using its intelligence services, proxies, and wide-ranging influence tools to try to divide
Western  alliances  and  increase  its  sway  around  the  world,  while  attempting  to
undermine  U.S.  global  standing,  amplify  discord  inside  the  United  States,  and
influence  U.S.  voters  and  decision  making.  ODNI  also  assessed  that  Russia  will
remain a top cyber threat as it refines and employs its espionage, influence, and attack
capabilities.
In July 2018, the National Counterintelligence and Security Center reported that
besides  cyberspace,  other  methods  of  collecting  sensitive  U.S.  technologies  include
use  of  Russian  commercial  and  academic  enterprises  that  interact  with  the  West;
recruitment  of  Russian  immigrants  with  advanced  technical  skills  by  the  Russian
intelligence  services;  and  Russian  intelligence  penetration  of  public  and  private
enterprises.  Under  Russian  law,  the  Federal  Security  Service  (FSB)  can  compel
Russian  firms  doing  business  in  the  United  States,  or  Russians  working  with  U.S.
firms,  to  comply  with  FSB  information  sharing  and  operational  mandates,  presenting
additional routes for cyber espionage.
The   U.S.  Department   of  State   issued   a   Level  4   travel  advisory  for  Russia,
advising   U.S.  persons  not  to   travel  to   Russia  due   to   unprovoked   and   unjustified
invasion   of  Ukraine   by  Russian   military  forces;  the   potential  for  harassment   against
U.S. citizens by Russian  government security officials;  the  singling  out of U.S. citizens
in Russia by Russian government security officials, including for detention;  the arbitrary
enforcement   of   local  law;   limited   flights   into   and   out   of  Russia;   the   U.S.   Embassy’s
limited  ability to  assist U.S. citizens in Russia; COVID-19  and  related  entry restrictions;
and  terrorism. U.S. citizens residing  or traveling in Russia should depart immediately.
U.S.  citizens,  including  former  and  current  U.S.  Government  and  military
personnel  and  private  citizens  engaged  in  business,  who  are  visiting  or  residing  in
Russia have been interrogated without cause and threatened by Russian officials, and
may become victims of harassment, mistreatment, and extortion. All U.S. Government
personnel  should  carefully  consider  their  need  to  travel  to  Russia.  Russian  security
services have arrested U.S. citizens on spurious  charges, singled out U.S. citizens in
Russia  for  detention  and/or  harassment,  denied  them  fair  and  transparent  treatment,
and  convicted  them  in  secret  trials  and/or  without  presenting  credible  evidence.
Russian  officials  may  unreasonably  delay  U.S.  consular  assistance  to  detained  U.S.
citizens.  Russia  enforces  special  restrictions  on  dual  U.S-Russian  nationals  and  may
refuse  to  acknowledge  dual  nationals’  U.S.  citizenship,  deny  their  access  to  U.S.
consular assistance, prevent their departure from Russia, and conscript dual nationals
for military service.
Russia has used counterterrorism and  “extremism” as pretexts to suppress the
exercise  of  human  rights,  or  for  other  objectives  in  both  domestic  and  foreign  policy.
The  formal  counterterrorism  dialogue  framework  between  the  United  States  and
Russia  remained  on  hold  because  of  public,  unfounded  statements  by  Russian
security officials alleging U.S. support for ISIS.
In  its  2020  Human  Rights  Report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
significant human rights issues in Russia included: extrajudicial killings and attempted
extrajudicial  killings;  enforced  disappearances;  pervasive  torture  by  law  enforcement
officers;  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  prisons;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;
political  and  religious  prisoners  and  detainees;  politically  motivated  reprisals  against
individuals  located  outside  the  country;  severe  arbitrary  interference  with  privacy;
severe suppression of freedom of expression and media; violence against journalists;
blacking  and  filtering  of  internet  content  and  banning  of  online  anonymity;  severe
suppression  of  the  right  of  peaceful  assembly  and  freedom  of  association;  severe
restrictions of religious freedom; refoulement of refugees; inability of citizens to change
their  government  peacefully  through  free  and  fair  elections;  severe  limits  on
participation  in  the  political  process;  widespread  corruption  at  all  levels  and  in  all
branches of government; lack of investigation of and accountability for violence against
women;  coerced  abortion  and  forced  sterilization;  trafficking  in  persons;  and  crimes
involving violence or threats of violence  against persons with disabilities, members of
ethnic  minorities,  and  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  and  intersex  persons.  The
government failed to take adequate steps to identify, investigate, prosecute, or punish
most officials who committed abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.
In March 2022, President Putin signed into law a bill criminalizing the spread of
information  in  Russia  that  authorities  deem  as  “false  information”  that  contradicts  the
Russian  narrative  of  its  military  actions  in  Ukraine.  The  Russian  government
censorship agency blocked access to social media platforms, and restricted access in
Russia  to  international  news  outlets.  In  September  2022,  the  Russian  government
began  a  mobilization  of  its  citizens  to  the  armed  forces  in  support  of  its  invasion  of
Ukraine.
