In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations  of  drug
involvement in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c. He stated that he “technically” admitted the allegation of
falsification in SOR ¶ 2.a, but he denied intending to deceive. I have treated his answer
to SOR ¶ 2.a as a denial. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  information  technology  technician  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  since  June  2021.  His  work  site  is  on  a  military  installation,  and  he
has access to classified information.1 He received a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice
in  December  2010  and  a  technical  certification  in  January  2019.  He  married  in  June
2016 and has no children. He has held a security clearance since March 2020. (FORM
Item 3 at 55)
1  Eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  and  actual  access  to  classified  information  are  separate
determinations.  ISCR  Case  No.  20-0311  (App.  Bd.  Aug.  10,  2022).  Applicant  admitted  in  his  answer  to
the SOR that he had actual access to classified information when he used cocaine, and he described his
duties involving classified information in FORM Item 3.
On  March  21,  2021,  Applicant  and  a  group  of  former  college  classmates
gathered  for  a  birthday  celebration  that  consisted  of  bar  hopping,  heavy  drinking,  and
snorting  cocaine.  While  walking  between  bars,  the  group  was  confronted  by  two  loud,
obnoxious,  and  aggressive  men,  resulting  in  an  affray  that  was  stopped  by  nearby
police officers. All the participants were handcuffed and transported to the police station.
When Applicant was searched by the police, they found a small quantity of cocaine in a
plastic  bag  in  his  pocket.  He  was  charged  with  participating  in  an  affray,  a
misdemeanor, and felony possession of a Schedule II controlled substance.
In  May  2021,  with  the  assistance  of  an  attorney  and  pursuant  to  a  plea
agreement, Applicant pleaded guilty to possession of drug paraphernalia. The charges
of  participating  in  an  affray  and  the  felony  drug  charges  were  dismissed.  He  was
required  to  complete  a  16-hour  program  of  drug  classes,  and  he  was  placed  on
unsupervised probation for one year. (FORM Item 3 at 50-51; FORM Item 5 at 6) During
the  ESI  in  February  2022,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  used  cocaine  in  college  as
well as on the night of the affray. (FORM Item 5 at 5.)
When  Applicant  submitted  an  SCA  in  December  2021,  he  answered  “yes”  to  a
question in Section 22—Police Record, asking whether, in the last seven years, he had
been  or  was  currently  on  probation  or parole.  He  disclosed  an  arrest  in  April  2014  for
driving  under  the  influence  (DUI),  his  conviction  in  August  2015,  and  a  sentence  that
included one year of unsupervised probation. He also disclosed his arrest in May 2021
for  the  drug  offense  and  participating  in  an  affray,  his  conviction  of  possessing
paraphernalia, and his sentence that included probation for one year.
However, Applicant answered “no” to two questions in Section 23—Illegal Use of
Drugs  or  Drug  Activity.  The  first  question  asked  if,  in  the  last  seven  years,  he  had
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances, and the second question asked if he
had ever illegally used or had otherwise been illegally involved with a drug or controlled
substance  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  other  than  previously  listed.  His
answers to the questions in Section 23 are the basis for the allegation that he falsified
his SCA.
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  he  stated  that  when  he  completed  his
SCA, it contained the answers from previous SCAs, and he updated the portion  asking
about  arrests  but  skimmed  through  the  section  asking  about  use  of  drugs.  He  stated
that during the  ESI, the  investigator went  through  each  section  of  the  SCA, and  when
they  reached  the  section  on  drug  use,  he  told  the  investigator  that  the  subject  was
addressed  in  the  section  involving  arrests.  He  told  the  investigator  that  there  were
multiple  sections  in  the  SCA  with  similar  questions,  and  he  thought  that  providing  the
information in one section was sufficient. (FORM Response at 2-3)
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in  Chief,  the President has the  authority  to
