Applicant is 31 years old.  He is divorced and has four children, two with his ex-
wife,  and  two  with  his  current  girlfriend  who  resides  with  him.  He  has  completed  two
years of college.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an Electronic Technician.
He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct,  drug  abuse,  alcohol  abuse,  and
dishonesty, evidenced by numerous arrests and convictions spanning over most of his
adult  life.  (Government  Exhibits  2,  4,  5,  6,  and  7.)  Applicant  admits  to  each  of  the
allegations set forth in the SOR.  (See Applicant’s Answer to the SOR.)
After finishing high  school, Applicant  joined  the  U.S. Army.   He  served  in  the  U.S.
Army from  June  2009  to  December  2016,  and  held  a  security  clearance.   He received
an   Honorable   Discharge  for his first  six-year   tour of  service.   He   then   re-enlisted   for   a
second  two-year tour where most  of  his problems  began.   During  his military career, he
received   a  number   of  awards  and   commendations  for  his   service,  including   the   Army
Good   Conduct   Medal,  (2nd  award);   the   Army   Achievement  Medal,  (2nd   Award);   the
Afghanistan   Campaign   Medal  with   2   campaign   Stars;   the   Global   War   on   Terrorism
Medal;   the   National  Defense   Medal;   and   the   Combat  Action   Badge   for  his  service   in
Afghanistan.   (Applicant’s  Exhibit  F.)
During his second tour in the military, Applicant’s excessive alcohol consumption
and  alcohol  dependence  caused  him  to  be  arrested  on  a  number  of  occasions  for
Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol (DUI).  This excessive criminal conduct resulted
in him being disciplined.  (Tr. p. 31-32.)  His rank was reduced from an E-4 to an E-1.
He was eventually discharged from the Army with an “Other than Honorable” discharge
in December 2016.  (Government Exhibit 7.)  Following his discharge, Applicant applied
for  VA  disability.  He  is  currently  receiving  100  percent  VA  disability  for  his  Post
Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
Applicant explained that he  was born and raised in Iowa  to a drug and alcohol-
addicted  mother.  His  father  was  never  in  the  picture.  He  experienced  a  very difficult
childhood  and  still  suffers  from  this  trauma.  He  described  bouncing  from  foster  care
home to foster care home and always feeling out of place.  He witnessed his 11 month
old sister being molested by one of his foster care parents, and was beaten for trying to
stop the abuse.  As a five or six year old child he described staying in a drug house with
his  biological  mother  and  being  allowed  to  roam  the  streets  with  no  supervision.  His
mother was not present and his two older siblings sometimes took care of him.  He was
also molested at age 5 or 6.  (Tr. p. 37.)
In  March/April  2017,  Applicant  began  working  as  a  civilian  for  a  defense
contractor.  Since  obtaining  this  employment,  he  states  that  he  has  never  violated
company  policies  and  procedures  nor  has  he  violated  any  proprietary  interests  of  the
company.  He states that he has received favorable performance evaluations, and has
been promoted for good job performance.  He contends that for the past four years, he
has greatly improved himself and changed his life for the better.
Guideline J  - Criminal Conduct
Applicant’s  criminal  conduct  began  while  he  was  in  the  Army.  His  extensive
arrest history includes six arrests for Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol (DUI), and
other  related  charges  and  convictions.  1.a.  In  October  2010,  Applicant  was  charged
with underaged drinking.  He was found guilty and received an Article 15.  1.b.  In July
2014,  he  was  apprehended  for  Spousal  Abuse  and  Child  Endangerment.  1.c.
In
October  2015,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI,  with  a  BAC  of  .08%  or
higher,  and  Driving  without  a  license.  1.d.  In  March  2016,  while  on  probation  for  his
October 2015  DUI  offense, Applicant  was arrested  and  charged with  DUI,  and  hit and
run.  1.e.
In  June  2016,  while  still  on  probation  for  his  March  2016  DUI  offense,
Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI, and registered a BAC of .13%.  His Army
post  privileges  were  revoked,  and  he  received  a  letter  of  reprimand.  He  was  found
guilty  of  an  Article  15,  given  extra  duty,  and  suspended  forfeiture  of  pay.  1.f.
In
December  2016,  he  was  administratively  separated  from  the  Army  for  misconduct,
(namely his multiple DUI’s) and he received an Other than Honorable Discharge.  1.g.
In  February  2017,  while  still  on  probation  for  the  offense  in  October  2015,  he  was
arrested  and  charged  with  DUI,  and  Driving  While  License  Suspended  for  DUI,  after
registering a BAC of .08% or higher.  1.h.  In September 2018, while still on probation
and  diversion  for  the  offenses  in  October  2015  and  February  2017,  Applicant  was
arrested  and  charged  with  DUI,  and  Driving  While  License  Suspended  for  DUI,  after
registering a BAC of .08% or higher.  1.i.  In October 2018, while still on probation and
diversion for the offenses in October 2015 and  February 2017, Applicant was arrested
and charged with DUI, and Driving While License Suspended for DUI, after registering a
BAC of .08% or higher.  Applicant states that his criminal conduct occurred because he
was young, immature, and made unwise choices while drinking.  (Answer to SOR.)
In  each  of  the  cases  listed  above,  except  for  the  Spousal  Abuse  and  Child
Endangerment  claim,  Applicant  was  found  guilty  or  pled  guilty  to  the  charge  against
him.  He was either sentenced to pay a fine, complete an alcohol course, and a driver’s
license suspension; or he was placed in a military diversion program; and/or ordered to
complete  an  18  month  Traffic,  Alcohol,  and  Awareness  School  for  multiple  offenders.
(Government Exhibits 4, 5, 6, and 7.)
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse
Applicant  has  used  a  variety  of  illegal  drugs  while  possessing  a  security
clearance.  In his answer to the SOR, he admitted using cocaine, but denies ever using
any other illegal drug.  (Answer to SOR.)  He  testified at the hearing  that he  does not
(Tr.  p.  59.)  2.e.  From
recall  ever  using  any  other  illegal  drug  besides  cocaine.
November  29,  2018,  to  February  27,  2019,  Applicant  voluntarily  entered  an  inpatient
treatment  for  conditions  diagnosed  as  Cocaine  Use  Disorder  (Severe),  Cannabis  Use
Disorder  (Mild),  Stimulant  Use  Disorder  (Moderate),  and  PTSD.
(Tr.  p.  57-69,  and
Government Exhibit 3.)  2.a.  Medical records from the facility reflect that from 2014 until
November  2018,  Applicant  used  cocaine  with  varying  frequency,  including  at  times
daily,  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  2.b.  From  2012  until  at  least
September  2018,  he  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency,  while  granted  access  to
classified  information.  2.c.  From  June  2018  until  at  least  November  2018,  he  used
methamphetamine  with  varying
to  classified
information.  2.d.  In late 2017 and/or in 2018, he used MDMA (molly and ecstasy) with
varying  frequency  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  2.f.  Applicant  has
also on occasion, between 2017 and 2018, shown up late for work under the influence
of illegal drugs and alcohol.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
frequency  while  granted  access
Guideline G  - Alcohol Consumption
Applicant’s history of alcohol abuse includes at least six arrests for DUI and one
arrest  for  Underaged  Drinking,  that  all  occurred  between  2015  and  2018.  Applicant’s
excessive  alcohol  abuse  was  the  reason  he  was  administratively  separated  from  the
Army and the reason why he received an “Other than Honorable” discharge.  After his
discharge from the Army, Applicant continued to abuse alcohol.  He enjoyed consuming
alcohol and  would  often  drink  while using  illegal drugs.  He also  abused  alcohol while
possessing  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  denies  ever  showing  up  for  work  late  or
under  the  influence  of  alcohol.  3.b.  However,  medical  records  from  the  treatment
center  indicate  that  on  several occasions  between  2017  and  2018,  he  arrived  to  work
under the influence of alcohol and drugs and on occasion was late for work because of
this overindulgence.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
3.c.  Following  his  last  arrest  for  DUI  in  October  2018,  Applicant  voluntarily
entered  an  Alcohol  and  Drug  treatment  program  for  his  addictions.  Records  from  the
treatment  center  indicate  that  from  November  29,  2018  to  February  27,  2019,  he
received inpatient treatment for 90 days and was diagnosed with Alcohol Use Disorder
(Severe),  among  other  conditions.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  F,  and  Government  Exhibit  3.)
After  completing  the  inpatient  treatment  program,  he  attended  the  one-year  outpatient
treatment program  and  successfully completed it on November 26, 2019.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit F.)  Applicant stated that he last consumed alcohol on October 16, 2019.  (Tr. p.
53.)  He states that he has been sober for the past four years.  (Tr. p. 54.)  His intent is
to never drink alcohol again.  (Tr. p. 69.)
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
Applicant  has  a  history  of  dishonesty.  Recently,  during  his  security  clearance
background  investigation,  he  has  been  dishonest  and  untruthful  in  response  to  the
Government’s questions on his security clearance application, in his interrogatories, and
during  the  interviews  about  his  past  arrests  and  illegal  drug  use  while  possessing  a
security  clearance.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  under  this
guideline, except allegations 4.h., and 4.i.
4.a.  On March 28, 2017, he completed a security clearance application.  Section
15  - Military  History,  asked  him  if  he  was  discharged  from  military  service?  He
answered,  “NO”.  (Government  Exhibit  1.)  This  was  a  false  response.  He  failed  to
disclose  that  he  received  an  “Other  than  Honorable  Discharge”  in  December  2016.
(Government Exhibit 7, and Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
4.b.  Section  22  –  Police  Record,  of  the  same  security  clearance  application
asked the Applicant if in the last seven years he has been issued a summons, citation,
or  ticket  to  appear  in  court  in  a  criminal  proceeding  filed  against  him?;  has  he  been
arrested  by  any  police  officer  or  sheriff,  marshal  or  any  other  type  if  law  enforcement
official?; has he been charged, convicted, or sentenced of a crime in any court?; has he
been or is currently on probation or parole?; is he currently on trial or awaiting a trial on
criminal charges?  Applicant answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 1.)  This was a false
response.  He  failed  to  disclose  his  extensive  arrest  history  discussed  above.
(Government Exhibits 4, 5, 6, and 7.)
4.c.  Section  23-Illegal Drugs,  of  the  same  security  clearance application asked
the  Applicant  if  in  the  last  seven  years  he  has  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
(Government  Exhibit  1.)  This  was  a  false
substances?  Applicant  answered,  “No.”
response.  He failed to list his illegal drug use discussed above.
4.d.  Section  23  also  asked  the  Applicant  if  he  has  ever  illegally  used  or
otherwise been involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security
clearance  other  than  previously  listed?  Applicant  answered,  “NO.”
(Government
Exhibit  1.)  This  was  a  false  response.  He  failed  to  list  his  illegal  drug  use  while
possessing a security clearance discussed above.
4.e.  During an interview on April 11, 2019, with an investigator for the Defense
Department,  Applicant  denied  ever  receiving  letters  of  reprimand  while  in  the  Army.
Only  after  being  confronted  by  the  investigator  did  he  admit  to  receiving  the  letters  of
reprimand.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
4.f.  During  the  same  interview  on  April  11,  2019,  with  an  investigator  for  the
Defense  Department,  Applicant  denied  ever  having  any  DUI  arrests,  other  than  the
arrest in October 2015.  Only after being confronted by the investigator did he admit to
this arrest.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
4.g.  During  the  same  interview  on  April  11,  2019,  with  an  investigator  for  the
Defense Department, Applicant denied being arrested for DUI in February 2017.  Only
after  being  confronted  by  the  investigator  did  he  admit  to  this  arrest.
(Government
Exhibit 2.)
4.h.  During an interview on August 9, 2021, with an investigator for the Defense
Department, Applicant stated that he had only used cocaine three times and that he had
never used drugs while possessing a security clearance.  Applicant blatantly lied to the
investigator.  Applicant has actually used cocaine more than three times and has used
a variety of other illegal drugs, including cocaine, while possessing a security clearance.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
4.i.  Applicant  was  asked  to  respond  to  interrogatories  dated  January  3,  2022.
When  asked  to  provide  the  month  and  year  of  his  last  use  of  marijuana/THC,
amphetamine/methamphetamine, and molly/ecstasy, Applicant denied ever using these
drugs  by  answering  “NA.”  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  He  was  not  truthful  in  answering
this question.  In fact, the Applicant’s last use of these illegal drugs is discussed above.
4.j.  On at least five to ten separate occasions between 2016 and 2020, Applicant
drove  a  vehicle  while  knowing  that  his  driver’s  license  was  suspended  or  revoked.
(Government Exhibits 4, 5, 6 and 7.)
Applicant  was  not  truthful  when  he  answered  the  questions  on  his  security
clearance  application  in  Sections  22  and  23  discussed  above.  He  should  have
answered  “Yes.”  He  was  also  not  truthful  during  his  interview  with  the  investigator  in
April 2019,  or in his interrogatories  in  January 2022.  Applicant’s  deliberate attempt  to
deceive  the  Government  is  unacceptable  and  shows  immaturity,  irresponsibility,  and
poor judgment.
inpatient  and  outpatient
treatment  programs,  he  has
Regarding  his  history  of  alcohol  and  drug  abuse,  Applicant  states  that  while  in
the military, he did not receive the help he needed for his addiction.  (Tr. p. 67.)  Since
learned
completing  his
mechanisms  for  self-control.  He  has  also  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings,  and  has  been  receiving  counseling  from  the  VA  Substance  Abuse  program
that has been helpful.  He states that he now avoids the triggers that have caused him
to abuse alcohol and drugs in the past.  (Tr. p. 56.)  He believes he is a changed man.
In August 2020, he received full custody of his children and is a very active and involved
father who participates in their lives and extracurricular activities.  (Tr. p. 58.)  He states
that  he  no  longer  associates  with  people  who  abuse  alcohol  and  illegal  drugs.  His
girlfriend  who  has  been  with  him  since  2015,  is  not  a  drug  user,  and  has  been  very
supportive in his sobriety.  (Tr. pp. 73-74.)
Applicant’s  performance  appraisals  for  the  periods  from  May  1,  2020,  through
April  30,  2022,  reflect  ratings  of  “meets  expectations”  and  “exceeds  expectations”  in
every category.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Letters  from  the  Vice  President  of  the  inpatient  treatment  program  dated
February  28,  2019,  and  from  the  Director  of  the  outpatient  treatment  program  dated
June  27,  2019,  and  January  21,  2020,  confirm  that  Applicant  successfully  completed
each  program.  Applicant  was  also  involved  in  the  VA  Substance  Abuse  program  in
January  2020,  and  diagnosed  with  “Post-Traumatic  Stress  Disorder  Chronic,”  with
“alcohol abuse in sustained remission.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
Applicant  successfully  completed  a  diversion  program  and  three  of  his  DUI
arrests  and  convictions  have  been  dismissed  by  the  court.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  C,  D,
and E.)
Letters  or  recommendation  from  Applicant’s  immediate  supervisor,  coworkers,
and the branch representative, attest to his reliability and trustworthiness.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit F.)
