Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant used  marijuana with varying
frequency from about August 2015 until about June 2020; dimethyltryptamine (DMT) from
about October 2019 until about June 2020; lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) from about
March  2017  until  about  March  2021;  methylenedioxymethamphetamine  (MDMA),  also
known as molly, or ecstasy, from about October 2018 until about March 2021; ketamine
from about September 2019 until about February 2020; cocaine twice in about October
2017; psilocybin in February 2020; and that Applicant used the prescription medication
Adderall that was not prescribed to her from about October 2017 until about December
2019.
The SOR also alleges that Applicant purchased LSD and MDMA at varying times
during her periods of usage of each of the substances, that she purchased Adderall in
about October 2017, and that she attempted  to purchase cocaine in about September
2019.  It  also  alleges  that  Applicant  purchased  marijuana  from  August  2015  until
September 2020. Applicant admits each of the SOR allegations. Applicant’s admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant,  25, is  a  quantum  sciences researcher employed  by a  defense  contractor
since  July  2021. She  received  her bachelor’s degree  in 2019.  This is her  first application
for security clearance. (GX 3.)
The information in the record regarding Applicant’s drug abuse is derived from her
August 2021 e-QIP. Applicant also discussed her drug use with the investigator during
her personal subject interview (PSI) in September 2021, and in her answer to the SOR.
In  response  to  the  questions  under  Section  21  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug
Activity on her August 2021 e-QIP, Applicant set forth her use of illegal drugs and misuse
of prescription drugs. In  response to the  “provide  explanation” sections of the drug-use
related  questions,  Applicant  described  her  drug  use  in  a  narrative  format.  She  also
provided estimated dates of first use and last use. In response to the section where she
was required to “provide nature of use, frequency, and number of times used” Applicant
listed the dates of use, her characterization of the frequency of use, and the drug used.
Applicant also discussed her drug use during her September 2021 PSI.
Applicant first smoked marijuana in the summer of 2015. She characterizes this
use as “experimental.” She smoked with a former friend from high school with whom she
has not associated since that time.
From  the  fall  of  2015  until 2017, Applicant was a  university student  and  smoked
marijuana  occasionally. Applicant  does not  state  her definition  of “occasionally.” Applicant
transferred  out  of  this  university in  2017, and  only  maintained  a  relationship with  one  of
her  friends.  She   disassociated   herself  from   all   her  other  drug-using   associates   at   this
university.
In March 2017, while Applicant was visiting her remaining friend at the university
Applicant  previously  attended,  she  used  LSD  on  a  single  occasion.  Applicant
characterizes this use as experimental.
Applicant stated on her e-QIP that she used cocaine twice in October 2017 while
hanging out with some friends from her sorority. However, she told the investigator during
her  PSI  that  she  used  cocaine  on  another  occasion  while  hanging  out  with  the  same
friends. She disassociated herself from the people with whom she used cocaine.
On her e-QIP, Applicant stated that she also used MDMA one time and misused
Adderall  one  time  in  October  2017.  She  characterizes  the  use  of  these  two  drugs  as
experimental.
Between June and December 2018, Applicant characterizes her marijuana use as
frequent, smoking marijuana on a weekly basis, primarily with her two housemates. One
of  her  housemates  was  her  remaining  friend  from  the  university  Applicant  previously
attended. In June 2018, Applicant used LSD with her housemates. She characterizes this
use  as  experimental.  Her  friend  from  Applicant’s  former  university  moved  out  of  their
shared  house  in  January  2019  and  Applicant  has  not  had  any  contact  with  this  friend
since that time.
Applicant misused Adderall occasionally between June 2018 and June 2019 with
her housemate(s). She stated in her PSI that she misused Adderall a total of six to eight
times total. Between January and June 2019, Applicant used marijuana on an occasional
basis  with  her  remaining  housemate.  In  March  2019,  Applicant  used  LSD  with  her
housemate. She also used MDMA one time in March 2019. Applicant characterizes the
use as of these two drugs as experimental. Applicant has not associated with her former
housemate since December 2019.
Between June and August 2019, Applicant did not use any illegal drugs or misuse
any  prescription  drugs  because  she  was  living  in  a  “drug-free  environment.”  Applicant
was living with her father.
Applicant stated on her e-QIP that in August 2019, she moved into a new house
where she had not met most of the people who also lived there. Applicant was unaware
that her housemates were drug users until after she had moved in. While living there until
March  2020,  Applicant  describes  her  marijuana  use  as  “very  occasional.”  She  also
“occasionally used  LSD and  experimented  with  DMT and  psilocybin mushrooms.” She
stated that she used DMT one time and MDMA one time in October 2019 and psilocybin
mushrooms one time in February 2020. She also misused Adderall between September
and  December  2019  with  her  housemates.  Applicant  misused  Ketamine  three  or  four
times between August 2019 and March 2020 with her housemates who provided it.
During her PSI, Applicant stated that from 2019 until March 2020, she used LSD
monthly.  Applicant  stated  that  after  March  2020,  she  used  LSD  on  a  more  infrequent
basis.  She also  stated  that  she  used mushrooms  two  times  between  March  2017  and
March  2021  but  was  not  able  to  recall  the  exact  dates.  She  stated  that  she  used  the
mushrooms with friends, however she felt nauseous and vomited both times she used
them.
On her e-QIP, Applicant stated that she purchased marijuana from August 2015
until September 2020 “from former drug-using associates on a small scale, for myself to
use, occasionally during this time period.”
Between  September  2018  and  September  2019,  Applicant  purchased  a  small
amount of MDMA from a former associate. She also attempted to purchase MDMA online
on the “dark web.”
The dark web is the set of webpages on the World Wide Web that cannot
be  indexed  by  search  engines,  are  not  viewable  in  the  standard  web
browser, require specific means (such as specialized software or network
configuration) in order to access, and use encryption to provide anonymity
and privacy for users. https://www.merriam-webster.com
In March 2017, Applicant purchased LSD one time from a friend. On her e-QIP,
she explained that in September 2019 she purchased LSD through the “dark web” while
a  friend  guided  her  through  the  transaction.  She  stated  she  “was  hesitant  to  use  this
method ever again and so did not.” She also stated that she “may have exchanged cash
on other occasions as well but I do not remember exact dates or times.” During her PSI,
Applicant stated  that she  would purchase  LSD on  the  “dark web” and  it would then  be
mailed directly to her home.
Between October 2017 and December 2019, Applicant purchased Adderall from a
friend who had it. On her e-QIP, Applicant stated that she did not ever purchase cocaine.
In September 2019, she attempted to purchase cocaine on the “dark web,” however, she
was not successful. She submitted her payment and after the transaction was complete,
“it was clear that I would not receive this product.”
Throughout  her  responses  to  the  drug-related  questions  on  the  e-QIP,  Applicant
repeatedly listed the mitigating factors regarding her past drug use. Specifically, Applicant
noted her disassociation from her drug-using associates and her move in March 2020 out
of an environment where drugs were used.
In  March  2020,  Applicant  moved  out  of  the  house  she  had  been  living  in  with
housemates since August 2019 and moved in with her mother. In her e-QIP, she states,
I moved  out in March 2020  to  avoid the  environment were  drugs were  used,
and  have  not kept  in  close  contact  with  these  people (outside  of seeing  two
of these  people for  lunch  on  two  separate  occasions, where  there was no
alcohol or  drug   use   involved).  This demonstrates  my  disassociation   from
these   drug-using   associates,   as   well   as   my  changing   or  avoiding   this
environment were  drugs were used.”
Applicant continued to use illegal drugs from March 2020 until March 2021. Her
last stated marijuana use was in June 2020. She describes her other drug use as follows:
Occasional LSD use. One  MDMA  experimental use. Two  of the  LSD use
cases were  with  two  other people,  one  of whom  is  a  friend  I  made  in  college,
and  the  other was someone  she  went to  high  school with  that I am  not close
with. Since  then,  the  friend  I made  in  college  has  also, like  me,  made  the
decision  to  lead  a  drug-free  lifestyle. Another LSD use  case  was a  situation
where I was the  only user, and  was with  a  friend  who  is not a  drug  user.
This friend  is very encouraging  of me  leading  a  healthy, drug-free  lifestyle.
The  final LSD and  MDMA  use  case  was with  a  friend  who  did  not use  LSD,
but used  MDMA. This incident was  potentially a  contributing  factor to  this
friend’s  subsequent  hospitalization.  Since   this  incident,   this  friend   and   I
have  both resolved to  commit to a  healthy, drug-free lifestyle.
It  is unclear from  Applicant’s  statements  in  her e-QIP and during her PSI if  she
purchased  the  marijuana,  MDMA,  and  LSD  that  she  used  between  March  2020  and
March 2021, or how she otherwise obtained these drugs.
On her e-QIP, Applicant concluded her comments with the following statement:
Overall, I acknowledge my former drug involvement and substance  misuse
. . . I have  provided  [evidence] of my actions  that I  have  taken  to  mitigate
concern.  I  have   disassociated   from   drug-using   associates  and   contacts,
and  have  changed  and  avoided  the  environment where drugs  were  used  in
the  past.  I have  an  excellent support system  of substance-free  friends and
family  members,  and   am   committed   to   and   look  forward   to   continuing   to
lead  a healthy, happy,  and  drug-free life.
Applicant stated  during  her PSI that  she  went through  an  experimental   phase  of
drug  use  while attending  college  and  feels she  has passed  that period. She  further stated
that she  no  longer associates with  the  same  crowd  of people and  she  is focused  on  her
career and  future.  With  her answer, Applicant provided  a  statement of intent to  abstain
from  all  drug  involvement and  substance  misuse  wherein  she  acknowledged  that future
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national security  eligibility.  Applicant
stated   her  answer  to   the   SOR  that  she   disclosed   her  prior  drug   use   to   her  employer.
However, there is nothing  in the  record that   suggests that Applicant’s employer or any
other entity with  the  power to  revoke  Applicant’s national security eligibility is screening
her for illegal drug use  or substance misuse.
In her April 2022 answer to the SOR Applicant stated:
I  acknowledge my drug  involvement and  substance misuse.  I have  since
changed my environment and group of associates, and have full support for
my family to continue in my drug and substance misuse-free lifestyle. I have
not  use  substances  since  March  2021,  and  am  demonstrating  this
continued  sobriety  by  submitting  to  voluntary  monthly  drug  tests  with  my
doctor since April 2022.
In the college environment I was a part of, drug use was normalized. This
consistent normalization in such an adolescent environment led to my drug
substance  misuse.  Because  of  this  normalization  and,  quite  frankly,  my
stupidity at the time, I did not fully realize the impact of my actions, both on
my internal health and on my future career prospects. It was not until a friend
of mine was hospitalized in March 2021, in part due to the substance use
we both partook in, that I really had a wake-up call and realized how poorly
I  had  been  treating  my  health.  That  realization,  combined  with  the
realization that many of the serious career aspirations I had would require
a  drug-free  lifestyle,  is  what  led  me  to  making  the  decision  to  halt  all
substance misuse for good. I have not used drugs or misused substances
since March 2021.
Additionally, I have begun the process of seeking counseling with a licensed
clinical therapist not only discuss how my past misjudgments have affected
me,  but  also  take  a  drug  evaluation  assessment  to  demonstrate  an
applicable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional.
Applicant did not respond  to  the  FORM. There  is no  record evidence  of the  results
of Applicant’s monthly  drug   tests that   began   in April 2022,   nor is  there any information
regarding counseling.
