Applicant  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a,  alleging  that  she  failed  to  file  her
Federal income tax return for tax year 2019, and SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, alleging delinquent
student loans in the approximate amounts of $62,605 and $72,590 respectively. She also
denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  2.a,  alleging  that  she  deliberately  falsified  her  security
clearance application by failing to disclose the delinquent student loan accounts alleged
in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c.
Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  been
employed  by  her  sponsor  since  April  2012.  (GX-1  at  11.)  She  testified  she  received  a
clearance in 2016, but did not list an investigation on her security clearance application.
(Tr. at 10, 41 and GX-1 at 28.) She graduated high school in 1987 and enrolled in college
that year. She transferred colleges before ending up at the university she attended from
1997 through early 2000. (Tr. at 24 and GX-1 at 10.) She has one child, who is an adult.
Her younger brother, who suffers from severe arthritis, resides with her. (Tr. at 61 and
GX-3 at 17.)
SOR ¶ 1.a: failure to timely file, as required, a Federal income tax return for
tax year 2019. Applicant testified her untimely filing of her taxes was an isolated incident
and at the time she was going through a lot. Her uncle, who had served as her father
figure, had passed away in December 2019. She was “handling his matters because [she]
was his power of attorney with his medical and helping out the family with doing a lot of
things that  he  asked  [her]  to  do  prior to  him  passing.” (Tr.  at 50-51.) She  testified  she
mailed her tax returns in August 2020. She considered her 2019 taxes filed when she put
the return in the mail. She explained that, when she received a refund, she considered
the  issue  resolved,  not  realizing  that  the  refund  she  received  was  for her state  return.
(AX-F.) She testified that she called the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to verify that they
had processed her tax return. The IRS had no record of her return, and she was instructed
to fax the tax return in, which she did on July 30, 2021. (Tr. at 20.) After waiting a week,
Applicant testified she contacted the IRS again, and the IRS informed her they still had
not received her return. She faxed the return again on August 19, 2021. (Tr. at 20 and
AX-H.)  She waited another week, and the IRS still had not received the tax return. She
made an appointment and delivered the tax return in person. (Tr. at 20.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b-c: two education loans placed for collection. In Applicant’s Answer
to the SOR, she acknowledged these debts and denied the allegations on the basis she
had not failed  “to  live  within ones means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial obligations,
have poor self-control, lack of judgment, or willingness to abide by rules and regulations
and the ability to protect classified or sensitive information.”
When Applicant enrolled in college in 1987, she took out student loans. She took
out student loans again each time she reenrolled after life events in 1991, 1997, and 2000
required her to stop her schooling. She was able to get her student loans either deferred
or  placed  in  forbearance  in  each  situation.  She  understood  that  the  loans  were  still
accruing interest. (Tr. at 27.)
When Applicant reenrolled in 1997 as a part-time student, most of her course work
did  not  transfer,  and  she  was  forced  to  start  over.  Her  student  loans  remained  in  a
forbearance  or  a  non-payment  status  during  this  time.  She  chose  not  to  make  any
voluntary  payments,  citing  her  other  expenses  as  a  single  parent.  (Tr.  at  32-33.)  She
remained a part-time student until 2000. She withdrew from school during finals when the
mother died in the spring of 2000.  She did not return and estimates she is two classes
short of her degree.
Applicant   testified   she   was  notified   she   had   received   the   maximum   number  of
deferments or forbearance and  that  she needed  to  work out  a  payment  plan  to avoid  the
loan   going   into   default.   (Tr.  at  56.)  She  worked   with   the   Student   Loan   Rehabilitation
Department   to   set  up   a   payment  plan   and   work  with   them.   The   payment  plan   was
approved  on  July 1, 2019. Her  first payment  was due  until October 2019, and  after five
payments the  CARES  (Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security) Act  passed. She
had  her  payments  suspended  and  her student loans placed  in  administrative forbearance.
Her monthly payments  will  pick back  up  once  the  administrative  forbearance  is  lifted.  (Tr.
at 21.) She  supported  her testimony with  documentary evidence. (AX-E, AX-F, and  AX-
G.)
Applicant fell  behind  on  her  mortgage  payments in 2013  after she  was  hospitalized
and  needed  emergency surgery. Given  her new employment status,  she  did not receive
full  pay  and  only a  percentage  of  the  surgery was covered  by insurance. She  “had  to  pick
and  choose  what could  be  paid,” but she  entered  into  a refinancing  program  and  brought
“everything  current going  forward.”  (Tr. 40  and  AX-D.)  She  received  a  congratulatory letter
in March 2021  from  her mortgage  holder,  acknowledging  her six years of good  standing
and  that she  had  earned  financial incentives that would be  applied  to  the  principle. (AX-
D.)
Applicant estimates she has about $50,000 in credit card debt. She supports her
daughter  and  her  brother,  who  also  lives  with  her.  (Tr.  at  60,  68.)  After  paying  all  her
standing expenses (mortgage, car, groceries, clothing, food, gym membership, etc), and
adding her student loan payments, she estimates she has approximately $300 left over.
(Tr. at 63.) Applicant has “little breathing room in her budget,” but the credit bureau reports
show  that Applicant  is generally current  on  her payments.  (Tr. at 81-82.  and  GX-4  through
GX-8.)
The  Guideline  E  allegation  stems  from  her  failure  to  disclose  that  she  was
delinquent  on  student  loan  accounts  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c.  In  Applicant’s
Answer to the SOR she denied the allegation on the basis her student loan was reported
current and that she had confirmed that information with the Department of Education.
She wrote in Answer: “At the time of my response, I correctly answered no. My student
loan  was  being  reported  as  current  and  I  confirmed  that  information  with  the  U.S.
Department  of  Education  National  Payment  center.”  She  wrote  in  her  interrogatory
response that she had been approved for a student loan rehabilitation with a $200 monthly
payment.  (GX-4  at  6.)  She  testified  the  only  thing  she  could  think  was  that  she  got
distracted and did not think about everything that needed to be done during that process.
(Tr.  at  52.)  At  the  time  she  completed  her  security  clearance  application  she  was
struggling to get herself together. Her uncle, with whom she was close, died in December
2019.  (Tr.  51-52  and  AX-I.)  When  she  submitted  her  security  application,  she  listed
various debts related to credit cards, medical bills, and her mortgage. (GX-3 at 30-34.)
Applicant provided  two  letters  attesting  to  her  character and  trustworthiness.  The
first is from  a  personal acquaintance  that  she  has known over 20  years, and  the  second
is from  a  supervisor that she  has known  for over six years. (Tr. at 22  and  AX-B  and  AX-
C.)
