Applicant, 47, is self-employed as a consultant. He requires a security clearance
for  a  project  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  was  previously  granted  access  to  classified
information by other federal agencies. He completed a security clearance application in
January 2018, disclosing  that he was convicted of driving under the influence  (DUI) of
alcohol  in  November  2014  and  August  2017.  Applicant’s  background  investigation
revealed another DUI arrest in May 2019 as well as several delinquent debts.  (Tr. 53;
GE 1-9)
Alcohol Concerns
Applicant  was  born  with  a  benign  medical  condition
that  has  physical
manifestations. Although the condition is not neurological, he has experienced issues in
the  workplace  where  his  medical  condition  has  made  others  uncomfortable  and
unnecessarily concerned about his health or ability to complete his job. In social settings,
he  had  concerns  that  his  medical  condition  would  be  off-putting  to  those  who  were
unfamiliar  with  it.  He  tried  medications  in  the  past,  but  ultimately  decided  against
pharmaceutical  treatment,  citing  marginal  improvement  and  negative  side  effects.  He
testified that his treating physician recommended one alcoholic beverage before certain
events to lessen the appearance of the condition. Applicant submitted a peer-reviewed
article  on  the  issue,  which  is  appended  to  the  record  as  HE  III.  However,  he  did  not
provide a letter from his physician corroborating the recommendation. (Tr. 54-56, 80-81)
Applicant  is  a  competitive  athlete.  He  attends  training  classes  each  week  and
participates  in  private training.  He also practices  at  social events, usually  held  at local
bars.  Concerned  that  the  his  medical  condition  would  inhibit  his  ability  to  interact  with
strangers,  he  decided  to  try  using  alcohol  before  social  practice  events  to  reduce  the
appearance  of  his  medical  condition.  He  would  not  consume  alcohol  before  work,  a
competition,  or  a  formal  training  session.  In  those  circumstances,  the  environments
allowed  him  to  communicate  easily  about  his  medical  condition.  However,  the  loud
environment at social practice events prevented similar conversation. He testified that he
would  typically  have  one  or  two  drinks  at  the  beginning  of  the  evening.  These  events
could  last more than  five  hours, and he  would  often  attend  more  than  one  event  on a
given  evening.  Outside  of  these  events,  Applicant  described  himself  as  an  occasional
drinker, who did not regularly consume alcohol to intoxication. (Tr. 60-61, 76, 111-112,
138-139)
Applicant’s first DUI arrest  occurred in October 2014.  He was on his way home
after a social practice event at a bar. He was pulled over for speeding. During the traffic
stop, he provided a breath sample. He was arrested and charged with reckless driving for
going 20 miles per hour over the speed limit and DUI – blood alcohol level .15% - .20%.
He admitted that he consumed one shot at the end of the night before driving home. He
does  not  remember  if  he  consumed  another  drink  earlier  in  the  evening.  He  does  not
believe that he was intoxicated and attributes his blood-alcohol level to the timing of the
shot in relation to the breathalyzer test. In November 2014, he pleaded guilty to the DUI
charge  and  was  sentenced  to  180  days  in  jail  with  175  days  suspended.  His  driver’s
license was restricted for 12 months, and he was required to install an interlock device on
his car. He was also required to attend an alcohol education class. The speeding charge
was not prosecuted. He completed the terms of his sentence. He abstained from alcohol
until at least November 2015, one year after the conviction. (Tr. 58-60, 112-117; GE 7)
Applicant  was  arrested   for  driving   while  intoxicated   (DWI)  in  February  2017.
Applicant  testified   that   he   was   at  a   social   practice   event   and   had   one   alcoholic  drink
around  five   or six o’clock in the   evening.   On  his way   home  around   three  o’clock  in the
morning, he  swerved  his car to  avoid  hitting  a  deer in the  road. In  avoiding  the  deer, he
hit a  curb. After the  incident,  Applicant felt  that his  car was  not  driving  as  smoothly,  but it
was  not  enough  to  stop  him  from  operating  the  vehicle.  Instead  of taking  his intended  exit,
he mistakenly ended  up  on the  airport access  road. The  access  road, which  is almost 14
miles long,  does  not have  any  exits  to  local-area  traffic. Applicant  drove  the  entire west-
bound  length  of the  road  and  circled  the  airport to  access the  local-area  exits available
from  the  east-bound  lanes.  As he  was rounding  the  airport, an  airport  employee  observed
sparks coming  from  the  bottom  of the  car and  alerted  the  police, which  issued  a  ‘be  on
the lookout’ alert for Applicant’s car. (Tr. 63-64, 117-120, 136, 146-148; GE 5-6)
As Applicant drove east bound on the airport access road, he passed a patrol car.
The police officer observed Applicant’s car was producing smoke, heavy sparks, and was
missing  two  tires,  causing  him  to  drive  on  the  remaining  rims.  When  the  officer pulled
Applicant  over,  the  officer  noticed  that  Applicant  smelled  of  alcohol  and  that  his  eyes
appeared glassy. The officer also observed that Applicant was wet and appeared to have
urinated on himself. Applicant admitted to the officer that he had one drink between nine
and ten  o’clock p.m. The officer asked Applicant if he  was aware  of the damage to the
car, which, in addition to the two missing tires, also included a shattered rear window.
Applicant told the officer he was unaware of the damage. Applicant agreed to submit to
field sobriety tests. He failed the test involving physical movements as well as the mental
acuity  tests.  Applicant  agreed  to  submit  a  breath  sample,  which  yielded  a  .16%  blood
alcohol level. He was arrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI) – second offense. At the
police station, Applicant was asked to provide another breath sample. The officer believed
that Applicant intentionally failed to follow directions for completing the test and charged
him with a civil violation for refusal of breath exam. (Tr. 122; GE 5-6)
Applicant  disputes  the  officer’s  report.  He  denies  that  he  submitted  a  breath
sample during the traffic stop. He claims that he was given field sobriety tests, which he
could not execute due to his medical condition. He also testified that he had not urinated
on  himself  but  was  still  sweating  as  his  body  cooled  from  the  physical  activity  of  the
evening. He explained that he was asked to provide a second breath sample at the police
station and that the results were inconclusive. However, he is adamant that he was not
intoxicated. (Tr. 64-68, 123; GE 5-6)
Although Applicant was initially charged with DWI  –  second offense, the charge
was reduced to DWI – first offense. Taking his lawyer’s advice, Applicant pleaded guilty
in August 2017. He was sentenced to 180 days in jail with 175 days suspended. The court
restricted his license for 12 months and required him to install an interlock device on his
car. He was also required to attend an alcohol education class.  The civil violation was
nolle prossed. He completed the terms of his sentence and abstained from alcohol until
approximately August 2018, one year after the conviction. (Tr. 61-62, 68-69, 127-129; GE
5-6)
Applicant disputes the accuracy of the field breathalyzer test results for his 2014
and 2017 arrests. He maintains that he was not intoxicated during either stop. To support
his concern about the inaccuracy of the tests, he submitted a newspaper article on the
issue. However, it does not appear that he challenged the accuracy of either reading in
court. (HE III)
Ten  months  after having  the  restrictions on  his  driver’s license  lifted, Applicant  was
arrested   for  his   third   alcohol-related   arrest   May  2019.   Applicant   was  at  another  social
practice   event at  a   bar close   to   his home.  In   celebration   of  his upcoming   birthday,  his
friends bought him  several rounds of drinks. He admits that he  was  intoxicated  and  that
he  chose  to  drive  home. A  police  officer initiated  a  traffic stop  after observing  Applicant
driving  erratically,  swerving  off  the  road  and  almost  hitting  a  barrier. Upon  approaching
the  car, the  officer observed  that Applicant smelled  of alcohol and  that he  had  vomited
inside  the  car.  Applicant admitted  that  he  had  been  drinking  and  had  consumed  too  much
alcohol but  could  not state  how much  he  had to  drink.  He was  arrested  for DUI. (Tr. 69-
70, 76, 133-134; GE 3-4)
Applicant was charged  with  felony  DWI –  third. He pleaded  guilty in August 2020.
He was sentenced  to  two years’  incarceration, with  one  year and  nine  months suspended.
Because  of concerns  related  to  the  covid-19  pandemic and  its  impact on  the  incarcerated
population  in his state,  Applicant was able to  serve  his sentence  on  home  confinement.
His  license   was  suspended   indefinitely.   He   was   sentenced   to   two   years’   supervised
probation. Initially, he  was required to check in in-person  with  his  probation  officer, but in
August  2022   he   was   granted   permission   to   check   in  using   a   mobile   application.
Applicant’s probation  expired  in   December 2022.  He is eligible  to  apply for a  restricted
license  in 2023  and  for the  reinstatement of his driving  privileges in  2025. (Tr. 71, 135-
137; GE  3-4; Ans, Enclosures 6-7)
Applicant’s  friend,  Witness  1,  testified  at  the  hearing.  Witness  1  has  known
Applicant  personally  since  2009  through  a  men’s  civic  organization.  He  is  aware  of
Applicant’s history with  DUI.  He   picked  Applicant up  from  jail after the  2014  arrest and
spoke  to  him  immediately after the  2017  arrest.  The  night of the  2019  arrest,  Witness 1,
picked  Applicant  up  from  the  police  station, took him  home, and  at  Applicant’s request,
removed  all  the  alcohol from  Applicant’s home. Since  that  night,  he  has not seen  Applicant
consume  alcohol  in  any social setting. Witness 1  also  has a  professional relationship with
Applicant,  whom  he  has hired  as  contractor for the  business  he  owns. He  has  no  concerns
about  Applicant’s  ongoing   security  worthiness.  He  considers Applicant  to  be   a   reliable
and  trustworthy professional. (Tr. 19-35)
Applicant still attends social practice events, but he no longer consumes alcohol.
Although his medical condition will intensify with age, Applicant realized that it does not
affect his ability to participate comfortably. He realized that the underlying issue was his
embarrassment  about  his  medical  condition.  He  has  gotten  more  comfortable  with
discussing the issue in personal and social settings. He has informed the bartenders at
the events he frequents that he no longer drinks alcohol, and he supports them by tipping
on the non-alcoholic drinks he purchases.  (Tr. 39-42, 45-50, 57, 60-61, 78-79, 80)
As  of  the  hearing,  Applicant  had  abstained  from  alcohol  for  1,075  days,  almost
three years. His main tool is a manual counter that tracks the number of days that he has
abstained  from  alcohol.  He  finds  the  satisfaction  of  watching  the  counter  turn  over  as
significant motivation. He does not participate in any sobriety management program. Nor
did he report attending therapy. He has increased his participation in his sport, entering
competitions with his girlfriend of two years. She also testified at the hearing. She is aware
of  his  history  of  DUIs  and  his  probationary  status.  They  spend  their  time  together  in
couples’  and  individual  training  classes  and  practicing  for  competitions.  Neither
Applicant’s girlfriend nor his friend have seen Applicant consume any alcohol since May
2019. (Tr. 39-42, 45-50, 57, 73-74; Answer, Enclosure 9)
Financial Issues
The SOR also alleges that Applicant is indebted to  5 creditors for $28,713. The
SOR alleges that Applicant’s mortgage is delinquent (SOR ¶ 3.a, $11,823). However, this
appears to be a reporting error due to the transfer of the mortgage from one servicer to
another. Applicant provided documentation that his mortgage is current and paid on time.
His April 2022 credit report correctly reports the account as being transferred to another
lender, and the new servicer reports the account is current and in good standing. He has
disputed  the  derogatory  information  with  the credit  reporting  agencies  and  the  dispute
was resolved in his favor. (Tr. 82-84; AE A; Ans, Enclosure 10)
The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.b ($11,340) and 3.e ($3,300) were debts incurred
during his marriage, which ended in divorce in 2014. His ex-wife was a spendthrift and
incurred  significant  debt  using  their  joint  credit  cards.  Although  the  marriage  ended
because of his ex-wife’s infidelity during the marriage, Applicant assumed responsibility
for the marital debts during the divorce. He resolved SOR ¶ 3.b in June 2020. He also
resolved the account in SOR ¶ 3.e and it is no longer being reported on his most recent
credit report. Applicant is unfamiliar with the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 3.c. He has repeatedly
challenged the account with the credit-reporting agencies. The challenges are resolved
in his favor, but the account reappears. The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 3.d is for a medical
account that is $134. He cannot locate the creditor. (Tr. 85-93; AE A, D)
Applicant  is  financially  stable.  He  currently  earns  approximately  $125,000
annually. He lives within his means. He owns his home and has other assets.
