Applicant,  58,  is  a  senior  systems  analyst  currently  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  June  2018.  He  has  worked  for  defense  contractors  since  1995.  He
received his bachelor’s of science  in 1988. From 1989  until 1995, he served honorably
on active duty in the U.S. Navy, where he held a security clearance. He married in 1989
and separated in 1995. He is uncertain if his divorce was ever finalized, however, his wife
has since died. He has an adult stepdaughter. (GX 1; Tr. 40.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges that Applicant failed to timely file and pay his
2015  and  2016  Federal  and  state  taxes  and  that  the  filings  and  taxes  remained
outstanding. The SOR also alleges 11 delinquent accounts totaling $58,249. The debts
are comprised of credit-card accounts and utilities accounts. The SOR further alleges that
the property associated with Applicant’s first and second mortgage loans was foreclosed
due to Applicant’s inability to make his mortgage-loan payments.  Applicant admits each
of the debts with an explanation for why the debts were incurred.
Under  Guideline  G,  the  SOR  alleges  under  that  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged with driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) in 1987, 1988, 1984, and twice
in  2019.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  arrests  and  charges  with  an  explanation  of  the
circumstances  and  outcome  of  each  event.  The  DUI  arrests  are  cross-alleged  under
Guideline J.
The delinquent debts are reflected in Applicant’s credit bureau reports (CBR) from
January 2019 and December 2016, and discussed in his January 2018 personal subject
interview (PSI). (GX 4; GX 3; GX 2.)
Financial Background
Since  starting  work  as  a  defense  contractor  in  1997,  Applicant  had  a  history  of
financial  stability.  He  lived  within  his  means,  stayed  current  on  his  ongoing  financial
obligations, and regularly contributed to his 401(k). He purchased his house in 2000 and
maintained his mortgage-loan payments. In 2005, Applicant took out a second mortgage-
loan on his home and maintained the payments. After 17 years of employment with the
same  defense  contractor,  Applicant  was  a  project  manager  earning  approximately
$125,000 a year.
Applicant  and   his  former  girlfriend   began   dating   in   approximately   2005,  and   at
some point she moved into Applicant’s house. She was employed  and contributed to the
household expenses. Applicant  leased  a car for her to use in  2011. (Tr. 67; GX 6.)
In January 2014, Applicant was laid off from his job when his employer’s largest
Government contract ended. Despite his efforts to gain work as a defense contractor, he
was  unable  to  do  so.  From  January  2014  until  December  2016,  Applicant  was  self-
employed as a consultant working for his former employer. While he was not earning as
much as he had been, with his income, his savings, and later, several withdrawals from
his 401(k), he was able to meet most of his financial obligations. He also used his credit-
card  accounts  for  living  expenses.  Applicant  prioritized  paying  his  mortgage-loan  and
vehicle-loan payments. He wanted to keep his house of 14 years and he needed his 2012
vehicle to go to job interviews and to work. (Tr. 24-25; Tr. 37; Tr. 55-56.)
Not  long  after Applicant was laid  off,  his former  girlfriend  ended  the  relationship
and  moved  out.  This increased  Applicant’s financial strain.  Additionally, Applicant’s former
girlfriend  had   agreed  to  maintain   the  payments on   the  automobile  lease   that Applicant
had   secured   in   his  name.  She   defaulted   on   the   lease   and   created   additional  financial
difficulties for Applicant. (Tr. 24-25; Tr. 67.)
In  approximately 2015,  Applicant’s  stepdaughter was employed  at  a  bar and  grill
that went  on  the  market for sale.  She  wanted  to  purchase  the  establishment  but  did not
have   the   financial  resources  to   do   so,  and   asked   Applicant   to   help   with   the   purchase.
Although   Applicant  had   made   some   withdrawals  for  his  own   financial  obligations,  his
401(k)  was still  strong.  He  decided  to  make  a  withdrawal from  his self-directed  401(k)  to
purchase  the  business with  the  agreement  from  his stepdaughter that she  would manage
it.  Because   he   used   existing   financial  resources,   the   investment  did  not  have   an
immediate   impact   on   Applicant’s  day-to-day   finances.  Within   about  a   year,  Applicant’s
stepdaughter   lost   interest   in   managing   the   business   and   sought   other  employment.
Applicant lived  an  hour  from  the  business,  was not personally interested  in running  it,  and
was also  busy with  his  consulting  work.  He  sold  the  business in  2016  for less  than  he  paid
for it,  and  he estimates  his total loss on  investment was approximately $20,000.  (Tr. 42-
44.)
Applicant’s consulting contract ended in December 2016 and he was unemployed
from January 2017 until November 2017. It was during this period of unemployment that
he  began  to  default  on  his  financial  obligations.  Applicant’s  seven  credit-card  debts,
totaling $50,152 (SOR ¶¶ 3.c through 3.h and 3.m) dates of last activity were between
August 2016 in October 2016 and the dates of first major delinquency are between March
2017 and November 2017. (GX 6; GX 7; GX 8.)
In  approximately  May  2017,  Applicant  was  no  longer  able  to  maintain  his
mortgage-loan payments and he defaulted on both the first and second mortgage loans.
In November 2017, Applicant started working at a shipping and receiving company as a
truck loader and driver’s helper. The work was seasonal, and Applicant frequently worked
16-hour  days  in  an  effort  to  earn  enough  money  for  his  minimal  living  expenses.  In
November  2017,  Applicant  lost   his  house   in   foreclosure  and   it  was  sold  at  auction.
Applicant’s mortgage  loan  was  through  the  VA, and  he  does not owe a  deficiency  balance
for  either  his  primary  or  his  second   mortgage   loans.  His   step-daughter  rented   a   small
trailer and Applicant rented a room from her. (Tr. 37; Tr. 61-68; GX 6; Tr. 25.)
In June 2018, Applicant’s former supervisor from his defense contracting job, who
was then employed as a supervisor at a small defense contractor, contacted Applicant
about  an  employment  opportunity.  Applicant  accepted  the  position  and  is  currently
working  as  an  IT  system  administrator  earning  approximately  $90,000  per  year.
Applicant’s daughter got married and moved, and Applicant remained living in the trailer
because of the low expense. He continued to drive his 2012 vehicle, which he paid off in
February 2020, until September 2020 when the vehicle reached a stage where it needed
repairs that were greater than its value. He purchased a 2016 vehicle in September 2020
for  necessary  transportation  to  and  from  work.  He  has  worked  to  maintain  overall  low
living expenses. (Tr. 24-26; GX 8.)
Applicant is current on all his ongoing financial obligations, has not incurred any
recent delinquent debts, and has a net monthly remainder. In November 2020, Applicant
enrolled  in  a  credit  monitoring  program  with  the  major  credit  reporting  agency.  As  of
October 2022, his credit score has improved by 29 points. (Tr. 32; Tr. 60-61; GX 8, GX
7.)
Federal and State  Taxes (SOR ¶¶  3a. and 3.b)
While  working  as  a  consultant  between  2014  and  2016,  Applicant  did  not
understand  that  he  was  required  to  pay  his  Federal  taxes  quarterly.  It  had  been
Applicant’s practice to file his own tax returns using tax preparation software. For tax year
2015,  he  used  a  free  online  tax  preparation  calculator  at  a  major  tax  preparation
company’s website. He  entered  his income  from  his consulting  contract and  calculated
that his income did not require him to file a Federal tax return or to pay any taxes. It did
not alert him to the requirement of paying quarterly taxes. Additionally, Applicant failed to
enter the income from his 401(k) withdrawals, including the withdrawal to invest in the bar
and grill, or from the income generated by the bar and grill 2015 until 2016. He did not file
a Federal tax return for 2015 nor did he pay any Federal or state taxes. Applicant used
the same online calculator for tax year 2016 and, again, did not file a Federal or state tax
return and did not pay any taxes. (Tr. 44-52.)
Applicant  was  unemployed  for  the  first  four  months  of  2017  and  did  not  earn
enough income to be required to file a Federal tax return. At some point between 2017 in
2018,  Applicant  received  a  notice  from  the  IRS  that  stated  that  the  IRS  would  file
substitute returns for Applicant for tax years 2015 and 2016. The notice listed Applicant’s
income for those two tax years and a total amount due for unpaid taxes, penalties, and
interest  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $16,000.  The  notice  stated  that  Applicant  could
accept the amount due and proceed to a repayment plan or he could object and a different
process would occur. Applicant was aware of the heightened security concerns regarding
delinquent taxes. He accepted the amount due and agreed to pay it. (Tr. 45-56; Tr. 35.)
In 2019, the IRS garnished  Applicant’s  wages at  a  rate  of $2,000  per month  for
eight  months.  Additionally,  the  IRS  withheld  Applicant’s  refunds  for  tax  years  2018
through 2021. In May 2022, Applicant made his final payment to the IRS for his delinquent
taxes in the approximate amount of $1,200. (Tr. 26; Tr. 43; Tr. 54; Tr. 72.)
At  some  point  between  2018  and  2020,  Applicant  learned  that  he  also  owed
delinquent state income taxes in the amount of $15,489. Beginning in September 2020,
the  state  Department  of  Revenue  garnished  Applicant’s  pay  in  the  amount  of  $927  a
month and withheld his tax refunds for 2019 and 2020. The garnishment was completed
in April 2021 and Applicant received a state tax refund in the amount of $334 for tax year
2021.  Applicant  timely  paid  his  income  taxes  and  filed  his  returns  every  year  he  was
employed until 2015. Since 2018, Applicant has resumed doing so. (Tr. 45; Tr. 49-54; AX
B.) SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.b have been resolved.
SOR ¶¶  3.c through 3.o
Applicant was able to live within his means and not incur any additional delinquent
debt while paying his tax debts. He did not want to overextend his finances by entering
into  repayment  agreements  with  his  other  creditors  while  his  tax  debts  were  resolved.
After  Applicant  satisfied  his  Federal  and  state  tax  debts,  he  contacted  a  financial
counselor to help him address his other outstanding debts. In approximately June 2022,
Applicant  met  with  the  financial  counselor  and  provided  him  with  financial  documents
including  copies  of  the  CBR’s  sent  to  Applicant  by  Department  Counsel.  The  financial
counselor told Applicant that he would review the financial documents and come up with
a plan for satisfying the outstanding debts. (Tr. 70-73.)
However, the  financial  counselor Applicant intended  to  hire  did not satisfactorily
provide  a  plan  to  Applicant  in a  timely manner.  After conducting  some  research,  Applicant
signed  an  agreement  with  a  debt-relief agency and  enrolled  in a  debt-resolution  program.
Under the  terms of the  agreement,  Applicant will  pay the  debt-relief agency $884  a  month
through  automatic debit for an  estimated  53  months. Applicant was  required  to  submit a
list of creditors to  the  debt-relief company which  was  comprised  the  debts  alleged  in  SOR
¶¶ 3.c through  3.k.  These  debts total $56,948. The  debts  alleged  in  SOR ¶¶  3.c through
3.m are being resolved. The creditor listing  did not include the $124  debt alleged in SOR
¶ 3.l with  a $1,360  debt alleged in  SOR ¶  3.m. (AX C.)
Applicant signed the agreement on October 25, 2022. The agreement included a
provision  where  Applicant  could  elect  to  pursue  bankruptcy  to  resolve  his  outstanding
debts, and Applicant opted to repay his creditors in lieu of bankruptcy. The agreement
also included a provision under which Applicant agreed to not pay any of his outstanding
debts that were no longer collectible under the state’s statute of limitations. Applicant also
opted out of the application of this provision. His first automated payment was made in
November 2022. (AX C.)
On that same day, Applicant sent an email to the debt-relief company wherein he
stated that he had unintentionally failed to include a $7,800 debt he owed to the IRS for
unpaid taxes from 2014. He asked if the debt-relief company would work with the IRS or
if he should contact the IRS directly to resolve that debt independently. (AX C.)
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol
(DUI) in  June  1987  while  he  was  still in  college.  He  was  intoxicated  at  the  time of  the
arrest  and  testified  that  he  knows  he  should  not  have  been  driving.  He  accepted
responsibility for his conduct by pleading guilty to the charge, a misdemeanor. He was
fined and his driver’s license was suspended for 90 days. He was arrested and charged
with  DUI  in June 1988 while he was  still in  college.  Applicant  testified that he was not
intoxicated. The charge was dismissed. Applicant listed these charges on his first security
clearance  application.  In  June  1994,  while  in  the  Navy,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged  with  DUI.  He  testified  that  he  was  not  intoxicated.  He  was  convicted  of  the
reduced charge of reckless driving and fined. As a result of this charge, Applicant was
required by his command to complete an alcohol education class. The  program taught
how alcohol affected people, stating that an average man’s liver processed approximately
one drink per hour. After learning this, Applicant became more cognizant of his drinking
and was mindful to never consume more  than one drink per hour.  Applicant disclosed
these DUI arrests as required on subsequent security clearance applications. (GX 1; Tr.
16; Tr. 31; Tr. 76-81; GX 2; Answer.)
Applicant  has  been  shooting  pool in  a  league  that meets  on  Friday  nights  for a
number of years. In July 2019, Applicant was in a bar shooting pool. He had two or three
beers over the course of the evening and was not intoxicated. After having been there for
a while, Applicant become aware that several players from the other team were at the bar
and behaving in an aggressive and angry manner. Applicant left the bar and as he was
driving way, a vehicle cut him off and shine a spotlight in his face. Concerned that it was
the players from the other team, Applicant sped up and drove away fast. The other car,
which turned out to be an unmarked police car, followed Applicant’s car, gained on him,
and turned on its lights and pulled Applicant over. (Tr. 76-77; GX 2.)
The officer asked Applicant where he had been and he explained that he had been
at  a  bar  shooting  pool  with  his  pool  league.  The  officer  asked  Applicant  to  take  a
breathalyzer, but he refused. The officer also asked Applicant to take a field sobriety test
which he instructed Applicant to perform on the sloped side of the road which was wet
from rain. Applicant asked the officer if he could perform the field sobriety test on the road
where it was flat, but the officer said it was too dangerous. Applicant had been advised
by  a  friend  who  is  an  attorney  never  to  take  the  roadside  breathalyzer  and  never  to
perform a field sobriety test because the field sobriety test was too objective. (Tr. 76-77;
GX 2.)
The  officer arrested  Applicant. He was detained  in jail  overnight and  released  the
following  morning  on  his own  recognizance.  In  Applicant’s state  of  residence,  refusing  a
breathalyzer results in   the  automatic suspension  of your driver’s license. However,  the
defendant  is entitled  to  a  civil hearing  where the  state’s  attorney  must present  evidence
of the defendant’s  intoxication. In Applicant’s case, the state’s attorney was unable to do
so  and  Applicant’s driver’s license  was reinstated. Applicant  and  his  attorney appeared  in
criminal  court  and   the   DUI  charge   was  dismissed   and   Applicant   was  charged   with
careless operations, a  moving  violation, and  fined  $400. The  DUI arrest and  charge  were
expunged from Applicant’s record on  August 25, 2022. (Tr. 18-21;  GX 2; AX D.)
In September 2019, Applicant had been shooting pool with his pool league at a bar
and had to or three beers while playing and was not intoxicated. He later left the bar to
run  some  errands  and  returned  a  few  hours  later  to  pick  up  his  friend,  who  was
intoxicated.  While  driving  the  friend  home,  Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  speeding.
Applicant’s  friend  was  behaving  belligerently  towards  the  deputy.  The  deputy  smelled
alcohol in the vehicle and asked Applicant to take a field sobriety test. Applicant refused,
and the deputy arrested him on suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol. He
was  detained  overnight  at  the  Sheriff’s  office  and  release  the  following  morning  on
personal recognizance. He appeared in court in February 2020, the deputy did not, and
the case was dismissed. (Tr. 18-22; GX 2.)
Since  2019,  Applicant  has  modified  his  consumption  of  alcohol.  Despite  having
been taught that he could metabolize one drink  per hour, when Applicant plays pool at
bars with his pool league, he has only one beer, with food, shortly after arriving. He stated
that  he  has  learned  that  having  an  officer  smell  alcohol  in  the  vehicle,  regardless  of
whether or not the driver is under the influence of alcohol, can result in a DUI charge and
he does not want to behave in any manner that could jeopardize his security clearance.
Applicant  has  also  overall  reduced  his  alcohol  consumption  because  of  the  past  DUI
charges. He does not consume any alcohol on weekdays.  Occasionally on weekends,
when his grandson is not staying with him, Applicant visits a friend’s house to play pool
on Saturday night. Applicant will consume 4 to 5 beers during the course of the night, and
will then spend the night. Applicant testified that his alcohol consumption has not had any
other negative impact on his professional or personal life. (Tr. 16-23; Tr. 77-81.)
Character References
Applicant submitted seven character-reference letters. The letters were from his
former  supervisor  from  June  2018  until  September  2019;  Applicant’s  brother-in-law,  a
retired  military  officer  who  has  known  Applicant  since  1981;  a  friend  who  has  known
Applicant  for  over  15  years  and  considers  him  to  be  a  peer  in  the  industry;  a  former
coworker who is known Applicant for over three years; Applicant’s current supervisor on
one  of  the  contracts  on  which  Applicant  works  who  met  him  socially  in  approximately
2008; Applicant’s other supervisor since 2018; and, a partner in the company for which
Applicant  currently  works  who  first  hired  Applicant  in  1997  and  considers  Applicant  a
friend.  Collectively,  Applicant’s  character  references  described  Applicant  as  a  man  of
integrity with sound judgment and as reliable, trustworthy, and moral. He has a reputation
of steadfastly following rules and regulations, particularly in classified settings, and they
highly recommend him for maintaining his security clearance. (AX F.)  Applicant’s 2018
through 2022 performance evaluations were outstanding. He received annual merit-base
salary increases. (AX E.) Applicant was candid, sincere, and credible while testifying.
