Applicant admitted and denied parts of the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a. He denied the
allegations in SOR ¶ 1.b and 1.c. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  25  years  old.  He  is  not  married  and  has  no  children.  In  2015,  he
received two high school graduation diplomas. One was from his mainstream high school
and another from a high school that specialized in math and science. He graduated from
college in 2019 and then began work for his present employer, a federal contractor. (Tr.
18-19, 21-22; AE E, F)
Applicant  testified  that  looking  back  on  2015,  he  now  believes  he  was  having
mental health issues, but did not know it at the time. He believed he was on the spectrum
for  autism  and  also  had  attention  deficient  hyperactivity  disorder  (ADHD),  but  no  one
believed him  because it  was  thought  that  these  two  mental health issues  contradicted
each other. He testified that after he graduated from high school and began his first year
of college, he continued to have issues with autism, ADHD, and he began experiencing
depression.  He  chose  the  specific  college  he  attended  because  it  had  the  major  he
wanted,  which  was  a  specialized  and  highly  challenging  curriculum.  He  did  well  his
freshman and sophomore year. (Tr. 19-21)
In   late   2017,   Applicant’s   junior  year   of  college,  the   curriculum   became   very
demanding,  and  he  began  having  mental health  issues  due  to  stress  and  lack of sleep.
He reached  out  for help. He went to  his college’s health  services  and  was told  because
he  had  medical insurance  through  his parents,  he  needed  to  seek  private  health  services.
He spent months  trying  to  find  medical care  from  a  provider  that  accepted  his parents’
out-of-state  insurance.  He was  on  waiting  lists for different psychiatric providers.  (Tr. 24-
25, 30, 32-34)
Applicant’s  medical  records  reflect  that  sometime  in  2018,  his  friends  at  school
took him to a hospital emergency room because they were concerned about his mental
health. They convinced his parents that he needed treatment and should receive it close
to his home. In May 2018, due to the stresses from school, Applicant  self-referred and
was  hospitalized  for  ten  days.  He  said  he  was  told  by  the  doctor  that  they  could  only
diagnose surface-level issues and not the underlying problems or causes. (Tr. 24-25, 30,
32-34)
Applicant admitted that on three occasions he had attempted suicide and a fourth
time he had a suicide ideation. His first attempt was while in high school and then in 2017
and 2018. He explained that on the outside he appeared to be fine, but what was going
on inside of him was not always apparent. These issues became more pronounced when
external symptoms began to manifest. (Tr. 24-25, 30, 32-34)
Hospital  records  reflect  Applicant  was  not  having  current  homicidal  ideations  at
that time. He testified that he never had homicidal ideations, but he admits that he has
difficulty recalling this period of his hospitalization as that time remains foggy to him. He
credibly testified that he does not deny that he reported homicidal ideations at the time,
but he just could not recall it. He did not believe his ideation was homicidal but did believe
his ideation was violent. His hospital records reflect he did have an episode of homicidal
ideation,  which  involved  holding  someone  against  their  will  so  they  could  watch  him
commit suicide. (Tr. 27-29, 35, 63-69; GE 4).
Applicant was prescribed medication, released from the hospital, and transitioned
to an outpatient psychiatric clinic. His discharge diagnosis was major depressive disorder
recurrent severe with psychotic symptoms. During his outpatient follow-up treatment, he
went through a full-scale psychiatric evaluation with a behavioral therapist and follow-up
appointments.  He  began  seeing  a  psychiatrist  at  a  psychiatric  clinic  who  then  left  the
practice, and his new practice did not take Applicant’s insurance. He was diagnosed with
depression, social anxiety, panic attacks, autism and ADHD. At this point, he began being
treated for ADHD and depression. He then transitioned as a patient to Dr. Z in 2021. Dr.
Z  prescribed  medication  to  help  Applicant’s  mental  health  issues.  Applicant  has  been
compliant. He provided medical records that show since he has been seeing Dr. Z, his
symptoms have stabilized. The medical records also show a progression of improvement
and compliance with medication management. (Tr.25-28, 31, 35-39, 81-83; AE P, Q, R)
Dr. Z’s assessment in April 2021 was major depressive disorder recurrent without
psychotic features, social anxiety disorder, panic attacks, ADHD combined type, history
of mild autism. Medical records show that Applicant consistently followed up with regular
appointments with Dr. Z throughout 2021 and 2022. Dr. Z’s March 2022 report shows the
same diagnostic assessment as the initial one. It also noted that Applicant’s depression
was improving, and they discussed coping skills and acknowledging limitations. His notes
stated that he educates Applicant about the nature of his illness, symptoms, course of
illness and ways to treat and also deal with unwanted consequences of the illness on his
relationships, at work and other functional abilities. Dr. Z’s supportive therapy focused on
improving  self-esteem,  ameliorating  symptoms,  and  maximizing  Applicant’s  adaptive
capabilities  by  encouragement,  education,  guidance,  and  reassurance.  They  also
examined  the  nature  of  relationships  and  emotional  responses  or  behaviors  to  make
Applicant  more  aware.  Applicant’s  progress  towards  his  goals  were  good.  Dr.  Z’s  last
report from September 2022 provides the same assessment and that Applicant has been
compliant  with  his  medication  management.  Medical  records  show  that  Applicant  has
consistently followed up with regular appointments throughout 2022  and his prescribed
medication  is  reviewed  each  time.  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  has  been  and
continues to be compliant with his prescribed medication. How often Applicant sees Dr.
Z is dependent on his medical opinion and indications from Applicant about his mental
health. (Tr. 38-41, 81-83; AE P, Q, R)
Applicant testified that Mr. K is his therapist. Mr. K testified he has been a licensed
professional counselor since 2003. Applicant began seeing  Mr. K in late 2017, and he
had weekly appointments. He continued into 2018 and towards the end he saw him every
other week until late 2019 when he saw him monthly. In 2020, due to the pandemic the
appointments were virtual, and he saw him five times. In 2021 he saw him four times. He
saw him twice in 2022, the last time in March. Their sessions are usually an hour long.
They  would  discuss  any  problems  Applicant  was  experiencing  and  potential  solutions.
Mr. K diagnosed Applicant with major depression, moderate, anxiety disorder, and panic
disorder. He is not aware of a present psychotic diagnosis but was aware of a diagnosis
in 2018. (Tr. 30-34, 41-43, 71-73, 106-123)
During their last meeting in March 2022, Mr. K and Applicant jointly decided they
would meet on an as needed basis. Applicant had no major stressor at that time and Mr.
K  told  him  that  he  is welcome  to  reach  out if  he  needed  anything.  This  was  left  up  to
Applicant.  At  their  last  appointment,  Applicant  was  managing  fine  and  there  were  no
depression  symptoms.  Mr.  K  does  not  prescribe  medication.  He  remains  Applicant’s
current therapist. (Tr. 41-43, 106-123)
Applicant  testified  that  he  believes  his  original  diagnosis  that  included  “with
psychosis”  was  because  his  ADHD  was  manifesting  him  being  fixated  on  something,
which is also a symptom of ADHD. (Tr. 58-59)
In  November  2021,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  Dr.  B,  a  licensed  psychologist
approved by DOD. She diagnosed him with major depressive disorder (recurrent, severe),
panic  disorder  without  agoraphobia,  generalized  anxiety  disorder,  and  schizoid
personality traits. She indicated his prognosis was guarded and concluded his reliability,
judgment,  stability,  and  trustworthiness are  in  question.  She  reported  that he had  only
undergone  sporadic  counseling  since  his  2018  hospitalization.  He  required  numerous
alterations in medications due to poor management of symptoms. He had limited social
support and his treatment history was far from appropriate to manage his conditions. She
opined that his psychological tests suggest that he is not willing to make a commitment
to therapy and that he either lacked insight into his past or was unwilling to acknowledge
it, which led her to her poor prognosis. (GE 2)
Dr. B reported she contacted Mr. K. She reported that Applicant saw Mr. K monthly
in 2018 and 2019, but only twice in 2020 and 2021. This is inconsistent with both Mr. K’s
testimony  and  Applicant’s  as  noted  above.  Mr.  K  opined  that  he  had  no  concerns
regarding Applicant from a security perspective, so long as he remained in treatment. (Tr.
71-72; GE 2)
Dr. B reported she contacted Dr. Z’s office to confirm Applicant’s medication and
treatment compliance. His office returned her call a week later and she reported that she
waited for a follow up from Dr. Z, which never materialized. (GE 2)
Applicant testified that he was evaluated through a Zoom meeting with Dr. B. They
talked for less than an hour and then there was an hour of questions, which he said were
focused  on  him  being  schizophrenic.  He  credibly  testified  that  she  was  aggressive
towards  him,  so  he  kept  his  distance  because  he  does  not  like  being  yelled  at.  He
contacted both Dr. Z and Mr. K. to advise them Dr. B would be contacting them. Applicant
testified  that  Dr.  Z  told  him  that  Dr.  B  never  provided  the  appropriate  documentation
required  by  Health  Insurance  Portability  and  Accountability  Act  (HIPPA)  to  release
information. Applicant stated  he did not oppose  Dr.  B  having access  to  his psychiatric
records from Dr. Z. He personally contacted Dr. B after his evaluation because he wanted
to make sure she contacted Dr. Z. She told him she was working on it. Applicant testified
Dr. B was hostile towards him for contacting her about ensuring she contacted Dr. Z. He
stated when he received Dr. B’s report, he analyzed it and concluded her facts “were so
far distant from everything.” (Tr. 45-48)
Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  would  continue  to  be  compliant  with  Dr.  Z’s
recommendations  and  medicine  management.  He  does  not  want  to  go  back  to  his
previous mental health issues. He likes being a proper functioning member of society. He
continues to see Dr. Z every one to three months as needed. He sees Dr. Z for medication
management and any side effects. He sees Mr. K for therapy and counseling as needed.
He has learned to manage stress through different practices and coping skills. He has
also learned to channel his stress into being more productive at work. He has discussed
this with Mr. K. He does not have any stressor related to his mental health at work or with
his supervisors or coworkers or outside of work. He lives alone but got a rescue dog about
a year ago. He feels he is in a stable environment. He has a strong support system, which
includes his parents, friends, and former and present coworkers. He stated, “I’m just trying
to live my life with this mental health issue and go on existing and do the best I can.” (Tr.
48-49, 51-52, 83-87)
Applicant’s mother testified on his behalf. She stated that she always believed that
he  was  on  the  autism  spectrum,  but  he  did  not  necessarily  fit  the  criterion.  She  also
believed before he was diagnosed that he had ADHD, but he was able to mask it because
he was a good student and also was an Eagle Scout. She described 2018 as a difficult
year  because  it  was  his  junior  year,  which  is  a  demanding  curriculum  for  engineering
majors.  Another  factor  was  that  his  grandfather  passed  away.  She  was  concerned
Applicant was depressed. She went to his school to check on him and observed a major
panic attack. She said it was very difficult to get him mental health treatment because
their insurance was out-of-state, and they did not have a diagnosis at the time. They could
not get an appointment for weeks. She is much more aware of what signs to look for now.
(Tr. 88-105)
Applicant’s mother noted he is now more communicative and is very protective of
his mental health. He is cognizant of the importance of sleep and structure. She believes
in 2018 he was not getting sufficient sleep. He has learned good coping mechanisms and
will contact people for support. She noticed that after his medications stabilized for his
ADHD, he is more resilient to normal stressors. He has progressively gotten better. He
has a lot of trust in the doctor and therapist who are treating him. (Tr. 88-105)
Mr. F is Applicant’s supervisor and testified on his behalf. He has known Applicant
for about five or six years and in the past three years has been his direct supervisor. He
is  aware  of  the  security  concerns  that  were raised,  including  the  suicide  attempts  and
homicide ideation. He is aware of some of Applicant’s nervous habits associated with his
autism  and  has  helped  him  to  develop  better  social  skills.  Applicant  is  adaptable  and
flexible to various tasks and is always available. He has had no issues with Applicant as
far as an employee or handling critical information. He is very good at his job and has had
access to controlled protected information without incident. He is aware Applicant is under
treatment. He believes Applicant would act responsibly in handling classified information.
(Tr. 124-132)
Mr. L has had a security clearance for 40 years. He works with Applicant and has
daily interaction. He believes that most engineers have a certain personality type and that
some  of  their  social  skills  are  impacted  by  their  analytical  and  technical  skills.  He  has
reviewed the SOR and has not seen any conduct by Applicant that would cause him to
be concerned about protecting classified information. (Tr. 133-138)
Mr. T testified  on  Applicant’s behalf. He  is responsible for DOD contracts for his
company.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  1986.  He  has  frequent  contact  with
Applicant  and  described  him  as  a  great  employee.  He  assesses  him  as  extremely
intelligent, bright, diligent and a positive impact on their program. Applicant has been open
and honest with him about his past suicide attempts and managing his current condition.
He is receptive to being mentored by Mr. T both professionally and socially. Mr. T has no
concerns  about  Applicant’s  ability  to  responsibly  handle  classified  information.  He
described Applicant as a rule follower. (Tr. 139-144)
Mr. A testified on Applicant’s behalf. He has held a security clearance since 2006.
He and Applicant previously worked together, do not anymore, but remain friends. He is
aware of the government’s security concerns. He described Applicant as brilliant. He said
Applicant  self-reported  that  he  was  receiving  mental  health  treatment.  He  stated  that
Applicant has a solid group of friends who he can talk to and if he has any concerns, they
will help him address them. (Tr. 145-151)
Applicant provided performance evaluations from 2020 and 2021 reflecting marks
of  outstanding  and  exceeds  expectations.  He  graduated  cum  laude  with  an  honors
diploma  from  college  in  2019.  He  also  provided  certificates  of  achievement  for  his
expertise in math and science and in an internship program. In 2016, he was awarded his
Eagle Scout badge. He also provided certificates of merit for different achievements and
awards. (AE A-O)
