Applicant,  age  39,  has  three  children,  ages  13,  15,  and  19,  the  eldest  of  which
currently  resides  with  her.  Her  two  youngest  children  reside  with  their  father,  her  first
husband,  to  whom  she  was  married  from  2006  until  they  divorced  in  early  2015.  She
remarried in 2021. She received her Generalized Education Development credential in
2001. She has been employed as a junior financial analyst by a defense contractor since
April 2022. She did not report any periods of unemployment in her SCA. This is her first
application for a security clearance. (Items 3, 4)
The SOR alleged two debts, a $37,993 home equity line of credit (HELOC) (SOR
¶ 1.a) and a $653 credit-card account (SOR ¶ 1.b). Applicant admitted both allegations in
her Answer.
Applicant co-signed the HELOC with an original balance of $50,000 in May 2008
with her first husband to remodel a garage and add an addition to their marital home. Her
husband  was  the  “primary  applicant”  on  the  HELOC.  The  mortgage  on  the  home  was
solely in her husband’s name. The HELOC remained in good standing until June 2016,
when her then ex-husband stopped making payments. The lender charged off the debt,
in the amount of $37,883, to profit and loss in May 2017, as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. (Items
2, 4, 5, 6)
After  an  initial  period  of  separation  from  May  2012  through  February  2014,
Applicant reconciled with her first husband. She also resumed living with him again until
December 2014, when he was incarcerated for committing an act of domestic violence
against her.  Due to the nature of their separation, she agreed to an uncontested divorce
to expedite the process. Before finalizing their divorce, she and her first husband reached
a verbal agreement that he would be solely responsible for repaying the HELOC as he
retained  exclusive  possession  of  their  former  marital  home  with  their  children.  In  her
Answer, Applicant stated, “There was a verbal, non contractual [sic] agreement with no
documentation nor court order naming him the responsible party and relinquishing myself
of the obligation,” and “The verbal agreement was reached due to his ownership of the
home used as collateral to obtain the HELOC and my financial capabilities at the time.”
(Items 2, 4, 5, 6)
Following Applicant’s initial separation from her first husband, she was unable to
provide an ideal home for her children. In December 2012, upon the petitions filed by both
fathers, the court awarded custody of the two youngest children to her first husband and
the eldest to her child’s father. At that time, the court also ordered Applicant to pay child
support of $343 per month to her first husband and $303 per month to her eldest child’s
father. Her then annual gross income was $26,000. After deductions for child support and
health insurance for the family, her net income was “barely above $600” per month and
rendered her “incapable” of repaying the HELOC. (Items 2, 5)
Once the divorce was finalized in early 2015, Applicant and her first husband no
longer communicated about finances. They did not discuss the HELOC again until 2017,
when her first husband advised Applicant of his and their children’s new home address
due to the short sale of their former marital home. At that time, he conveyed to her that
he expected the proceeds of the short sale to cover the then delinquent balance of the
HELOC. It was not until October 2018, during an attempt to finance the purchase of a
vehicle,  that  Applicant  learned  the  HELOC  remained  in  delinquent  status.  She
immediately contacted her first husband  and he advised her that he would contact the
lender to investigate why it was not satisfied through the short sale. In her Answer, she
stated, “his ownership of the home used as collateral [for the HELOC] as well as being
the primary applicant on the [HELOC] is why I continued to look to him for answers versus
contacting  the  lender  myself.  I  understand  this  does  not  excuse  me  from  taking
responsibility as the co-signer of this debt.” (Item 2)
In her April 2022 SCA, Applicant reported that she resolved a $7,000 child support
debt. Beginning in December 2014, she fell behind in her child support payments, due to
the lack of a steady income. She maintained full-time work with the same employer in the
health care industry from January 2008 until July 2014, when she left to work a more part-
time  schedule  so  that  she  could  be  home  more  for  her  children.  In  August  2013,  she
obtained a second job working part time nights and weekends as a bartender and server
in the restaurant industry. In August 2014, she transitioned her part-time position to full
time and continued to work nights and weekends. In June 2015, she took on a second
part-time job working as a janitor in her local government until she was laid off in February
2016. She continued working in the same restaurant position until September 2017, when
she determined that she “no longer needed the supplemental income.” (Items 3, 5)
During her April 2022 security clearance interview (SI), Applicant explained that,
although she fell behind in her child support payments in December 2014, she continued
to make partial payments. In December 2017, both fathers of her children filed a petition
in  December  2017  to  settle  the  $7,000  arrearage.  Both  fathers  agreed  to  release
Applicant from the $7,000 arrearage in exchange for Applicant’s agreement to pay the full
amount of her child support obligation going forward. Applicant had been paying the full
amount  from  October  2017  through  at  least  April  2022.  Given  the  financial  stability
afforded by her then new full-time position with her current employer, she expected to be
able to continue paying the full amount through her children’s 18th birthdays. The child
support debt was reported as “closed or paid,” with a $0 balance in her April and August
2022 credit bureau reports (CBRs).  As this debt was not alleged in the SOR, it will be
considered solely to evaluate mitigation and the whole person concept. (Items 4, 5, 6)
During Applicant’s SI, she also addressed the two SOR debts as well as a resolved
property tax debt. Attempting to rebuild her credit, Applicant opened a credit-card account
in May 2019 with a $300 credit limit. At that time, she felt confident that she could afford
to make the payments given her then two-income household. She used the card to pay
for clothing, food, and fuel.  However, she fell behind in her payments in October 2019
because she could no longer afford them as her household was reduced to one income.
No  information was available in the record  concerning how she became a two-income
household or lost the second income. She defaulted on the card so that she could ensure
housing for herself and maintain a good payment record on her vehicle. During that time,
she  took  on  a  secondary  job  as  a  waitress  to  supplement  her  income.  However,  the
supplemental income was “sporadic and unreliable.” In May 2020, the creditor charged
off the debt, in the amount of $653 (including penalties and interest), to profit and loss in
March 2020, as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. (Items 2, 4, 5, 6)
Although  her  April  2022  CBR  listed  the  credit-card  debt  with  a  $0  balance,
Applicant told the investigator that she intended to contact the creditor to settle the debt.
In her Answer, she explained that she had been working to accrue enough savings to
make  monthly  payments  on  the  account.  In  a  December  2022  FORM  response,  she
explained that her attempts to settle the account had been thwarted because it had been
transferred “multiple times.” On March 10, 2023, the collection agency for the debt alleged
in SOR ¶ 1.b confirmed that it had been paid in full. In addition, although it was not alleged
in the SOR, in January 2023, Applicant negotiated a payment with the same collection
agency to repay a debt for a “much older account” with a balance of $567. She agreed to
pay $72 per month from January 2023 through December 2023 to resolve that debt. (AE
A, C, E; Item 2, 4 5, 6)
Applicant’s  wages  were  garnished  for  one  week  in  October  2017  to  repay  an
unpaid $400 personal property tax debt. The tax had been assessed on a vehicle that
was jointly titled in her name and an ex-boyfriend’s name. When the ex-boyfriend moved
away following their breakup, he took sole possession of the vehicle and verbally agreed
to pay all expenses associated with the vehicle, including the property tax. Applicant was
not aware of the existence of the tax debt until her wages were garnished. Because this
debt was not alleged in the SOR, it will be considered solely to evaluate mitigation and
the whole person concept. (Item 4 at 6)
During her SI, Applicant explained that she did not report the HELOC debt on her
SCA because she did not know that it remained in delinquent status. Sometime between
the completion of her SCA and the SI, she learned, for the first time, that her marital home
had  been  foreclosed  upon  (not  sold  via  short  sale).  She  also  became  aware  that  the
HELOC  remained  in  delinquent  status.  In  her  Answer,  Applicant  acknowledged  her
responsibility for repaying the debt as a co-signer on the HELOC. She expected that she
would  be  able  to  repay  the  debt  given  the  salary  increase  associated  with  her current
employment. She intended to reach out to the lender to negotiate a “financially feasible”
repayment agreement. She anticipated that she may have to file bankruptcy if she could
not arrange a payment arrangement that she could afford. (Item 2)
In her December 2022 FORM response, Applicant explained that she had been in
contact  with  the  HELOC  creditor.  The  creditor  advised  that  there  was  a  significant
discrepancy between the balance owed on the HELOC according to their records and the
amount being reported on Applicant’s credit report. The creditor advised Applicant that it
would be in her best interest to file a dispute with the credit bureau to resolve the issue.
The  creditor  also  reviewed  various  repayment  options.  Applicant  planned  to  begin
repaying the debt once the credit bureau resolved her dispute. In the meantime, she also
consulted with an attorney about filing a Chapter 13 bankruptcy. Based upon the advice
received, she and her current husband were exploring the option of filing for Chapter 13
to  consolidate  their  debts  to  gain  a  lower  monthly  payment.  On  December  21,  2022,
based on its research of the account, the credit bureau resolved the dispute by deleting
the HELOC debt from Applicant’s CBR. (AE A, B, D).
No  new  delinquent  debts  were  reported  on  Applicant’s  August  2022  CBR.  All
accounts reported on Applicant’s March 9, 2023 CBR were in good standing. She intends
to  maintain her credit going  forward. In  her Answer, she  stated, “The  fluctuation  in my
credit  score  as  well  as  the  delinquency  of  these  accounts  has  impacted  my  life
tremendously and  I have  learned  how  important  it  is to uphold  financial  obligations  as
agreed to do so.” She does not intend to make any future payments to the HELOC creditor
due to the successful resolution of her dispute with the credit bureau. (AE D; Item 2)
