Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  between  June  2017  and  May  2018,
Applicant  used  marijuana  approximately  300  times  while  he  had  access  to  classified
information  (SOR  1.a); and  that  during  the  same period, he  purchased marijuana  with
varying frequency while he had access to classified information (SOR 1.b). He admitted
without  comment  both  allegations.  (FORM,  Items  1  and  2)  In  addition  to  the  facts
established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  and  based  on  my  review  of  the  information
presented in the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked since August 2011. He and his wife have been married since July 2010 and they
have  three  children.  He  was  first  granted  a  security  clearance  in  September  2011.
(FORM, Items 3 and 5)
Applicant first used marijuana in high school and college between September 1997
and May 2004. During this period, he smoked marijuana as often as daily, and at least
weekly, purchasing the drug from people he knew, including his brother. He stopped in
2004 because he felt he no longer needed it. He also did not want to spend money buying
marijuana when he also had to pay for his college education. (FORM, Item 4)
In 2017, marijuana became legal in the state where Applicant lives. He decided to
start using it again because it was legal under state law and because he felt it may help
with his anxiety. During a personal subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator
on November 22, 2021, he estimated that he used marijuana about 300 times between
June 2017 and May 2018. He knew at that time that his use of marijuana, while having a
security  clearance,  was  “forbidden”  and  could  disqualify  him  from  access  to  sensitive
information. (FORM, Items 3 and 4)
In  May  2018,  Applicant  checked  himself  into  a  hospital  for  treatment  of  severe
anxiety, depression, and related behavioral problems. He believes his extensive use of
marijuana  over  the  previous  year  had  altered  his  brain  chemistry  and  caused  him  to
behave erratically towards his wife. Applicant no longer experiences the behavioral issues
that  he  believes  were  caused  or  exacerbated  by  his  marijuana  use.  He  has  not  used
marijuana or any other illegal substance since May 2018. (FORM, Item 4)
The summary of his PSI reported that Applicant did not disclose his drug use to
his employer’s security office; however, in response to DOHA interrogatories, he averred
that after he was hospitalized in 2018, he was asked to submit “a preemptive SF 86” in
which  he  disclosed  his  drug  use  while  cleared.  He  also  reported  his  drug  use  in  his
September 2021 e-QIP. (FORM, Item 4)
Applicant no longer associates with the people with whom he used marijuana. In
his  e-QIP,  in  his  PSI,  and  in  his  notarized  response  to  interrogatories,  he  stated  his
intention to abstain from any future use of marijuana. (FORM, Items 3 and 4)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February  2013,  which  was  updated  by  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI)  in
December  2021,  makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the
various states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the  current National
Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this
issue, Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of location or medical justification  in  his
state  of  residence,  was  illegal.  Further,  federal  workplaces  prohibit  illegal  drug  use  by
civilian federal employees and by persons employed for work on federal contracts.
