Applicant is 42 years old. He was previously married from July 2012 until January
2017 and has no children. He has attended some college courses but has not earned a
degree.  Since  approximately  November  2016,  he  has  been  employed  full  time  as  a
migration engineer for a DOD contractor. (Tr. 23-25, 105-106; GE 1)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted he ingests marijuana using a vape device on an
almost  daily  basis,  and  he  used  it  the  night  before  the  hearing.  He  uses  marijuana
because it helps him tolerate food, and he uses it as a sleep aid. He intends to continue
to use marijuana in this manner and with this frequency, notwithstanding its impact on his
clearance  eligibility.  He  has  not  disclosed  his  marijuana  use  to  anyone  other  than  his
physicians  and  his  father.  Additionally,  no  one  at  his  company  is aware  of  his  past  or
ongoing use of marijuana. He first used marijuana recreationally in 2005. He did not use
it  between  2005  and  2012.  In  approximately  2012,  he  obtained  a  medical  marijuana
card/marijuana prescription after his hip surgeries and his gastroparesis diagnosis. His
medical marijuana card expired in 2013, and he never renewed it. (Tr. 78, 81-84, 94-104,
108-111, 118, 121, 124-125; GE 1)
In  January  2017,  Applicant  certified  and  submitted  his
first  Electronic
Questionnaire  for  Investigations  Processing  (e-QIP).  Under  Section  23,  he  responded
“NO” to the following query, “In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used any drugs
or controlled substances?” (Tr. 106-107; GE 2)
In  July  2018,  Applicant  certified  and  submitted  a  Standard  Form  (SF)  85P  for
Public Trust Positions. Under question 10, he responded “NO” to the following query, “In
the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?” The
SOR did not allege that Applicant falsified this document, and his response will not be
considered disqualifying conduct. (Tr. 107-108; GE 3)
In  June  2020,  Applicant  completed  a  second  e-QIP,  and  under  Section  23,  he
disclosed  that  between  June  2005  and  June  2020,  he  had  used  “THC,  (Such  as
marijuana,  weed,  pot,  hashish,  etc.”  His  use  was  related  to  treating  conditions  and
symptoms  for  a  medical  condition.  Additionally,  he  stated,  “There  are  virtually  no
medications that help with the symptoms I experience. I have an extensive medical record
trying  existing  medications, I have  made  many changes [to] my diet  and  continue  to  work
with my medical doctor to improve my condition so that I many discontinue use.” (GE  1)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  August  2020.  He
confirmed  that  the  information  he  disclosed  in  his  2020  e-QIP  regarding  his  drug  was
accurate. Additionally, he stated that he intended to continue to use marijuana to alleviate
the  symptoms  of  his  medical  condition.  He  claimed  he  obtained  marijuana  through  a
prescription from his physician. (GE 4)
In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted to deliberately omitting or falsifying information
about  his  illegal  drug  use  on  his  January  2017  e-QIP  but  provided  no  explanation.
However, at the hearing, he testified that he did not disclose his marijuana use in his 2017
e-QIP and 2018 SF 85P, because he considered his use of marijuana to be legal under
applicable state laws, and he was not intentionally trying to hide it. He disclosed marijuana
use in his 2020 e-QIP, because he was under the impression, at that time, that because
he was required to sign a medical release form through his employer, his company was
going to be able to review his medical records and would learn that he was using medical
marijuana. (Tr. 76-81, 108-110; GE 1-3)
After  the   SOR  was   issued,  Applicant  did  not  approach   his  physicians  for  legal
medical  alternatives  for  his  illegal  marijuana   use.   When   questioned   at   the   hearing
regarding  his company’s policy regarding  drug  use, he  responded, “I can’t think of what it
is, recite  it off  the  top of my head, but I’m pretty sure that they  don’t want you  [to] do  any
illegal drugs.” When  asked  to  clarify if his company considers  marijuana  to  be  an  illegal
drug,  he   responded,  “I’m   not  sure  if  they  do   or  not.”  He  did  not  ask  for  clarification,
because  it is his medical information. He is not subject to drug  testing  at work.  (Tr. 111-
112, 120)
Applicant testified that he is aware that marijuana use is illegal under federal law,
and  the  following  dialogue  at  the  hearing  indicates  he  is  fully  aware  that  his  use  of
marijuana is prohibited by DOD regulations for individuals holding public trust positions.
Applicant’s Attorney: Have you ever used marijuana with anybody at work?
Applicant: No.
Applicant’s Attorney: Has it ever come  up  as a  topic any time, anywhere for
any reason?
Applicant: Absolutely not, Jesus Christ.
Applicant’s Attorney: Okay
Applicant: I like having my job.
Applicant’s Counsel:  [Y]ou  felt  it was  appropriate  and  go  ahead  and  disclose
your medical use?
Applicant: I didn’t think I had much of a choice. (Tr. 78-79)
At  the  hearing,  an  expert  witness  (EW)  testified  regarding  the  use  of  cannabis
medicine  or  medical  marijuana.  He  is  a  physician,  specializing  in  palliative  care  and
rehabilitative medicine, and he has a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in medical geography.
According to EW, marijuana use should be decriminalized, and it should no longer be a
Schedule  I  drug,  despite  its  federal  classification,  as  it  has  it  has  medicinal  benefits.
Medical  marijuana  was  legalized  in  Applicant’s  state  of  residence  in  1999,  and  its
recreational use was legalized in 2012. (Tr. 29-70; AE A; AE B)
EW   does   not  treat  Applicant,  nor  has   Applicant  ever  been   his   patient.   EW
conducted a “mostly” remote telephonic 73-minute  examination  of Applicant, a  couple of
follow-up   calls,   and   reviewed   Applicant’s   medical  record   from   August  2015   and   his
prescription  history detailed  in AE  C. Based  upon  these  data  points,  WE  concluded  that
Applicant  has  a   “diagnosable  condition   that   could  and   would   potentially  benefit  from
medical cannabis use”  to  wit,  gastroparesis,  as there are  limited  prescriptions available
to  treat this affliction, and  Applicant has not tolerated  them  well. WE  testified  that he  does
not believe  that  Applicant’s use of medical marijuana  affects his trustworthiness.  (Tr. 30-
70; AE A-C)
Applicant  presented  briefs  regarding  the  historical  laws  criminalizing  the  use  of
marijuana; the medical use of marijuana; the legalization of marijuana by various states;
the  medical  necessity  defense;  marijuana’s  status  as  a  Schedule  I  drug;  and  three
Attorney General memos from 2009 to 2013 regarding the enforcement of the Controlled
Substances Act concerning marijuana. (AE D-H; See also GE 5)
Applicant does not feel that his marijuana use affects his ability to be trustworthy
or  his  job  performance,  which  has  been  “usually  above  satisfactory.”  He  is  currently
managing  “an entire group” which consists of approximately 27 workers. He enjoys his
job and wants to continue to work for his company. (Tr. 73, 87-94)
