Applicant is 41 years old, divorced, and has one minor child. He graduated from
high school and attended some college classes. Since September 2019 he has worked
for a DoD contractor performing inventory duties. He is a first-time applicant for national
security  eligibility.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment. (Tr. at 7, 20-24.)
Paragraph 1 - Guideline F, Financial Considerations
is
financially  overextended  and
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR
lists one medical debt and two tax debts, both for tax year (TY) 2017 (Federal and state).
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the medical debt (SOR ¶ 1.a) and denied the two tax
debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c). (Answer at 1-2.)
Applicant  testified   about  his  income   and   expenses.  He  is  able   to   pay  all   of  his
monthly  expenses   and   child   support.  He   tries  to   save   about   $800   per  month.   He   has
about $3,000  in savings and  about $14,000  in his employer’s 401K  account.  (Tr. at 24-
28.)
The current status of the debts alleged in paragraph 1 of the SOR is as follows:
1.a.   Medical   debt   in   collection   in   the   approximate   amount   of   $31,688.  This
debt arose  after Applicant was in  a  car accident in 2016. He was taken  by helicopter from
the   accident   scene   to   a   large   city  hospital  for   emergency  care.  The   cost  of  the
transportation  expense  was not covered  by his insurance. In  2020  Applicant  settled  the
debt for $6,000 and paid it with monthly payments.  In November 2020 he  made an initial
payment  of  $265.  Thereafter, he  made  weekly payments  of  $65. He  provided  a  record
from   the   creditor  evidencing   each   payment,   along   with   a   final  payment  of  $2,953   on
November 5,  2021.  He   made   the   final payment  with   funds   from   a  tax  refund.  His  total
payments  were  $6,338. He also  provided  a  letter from  the  creditor stating  that this debt
had  been  paid  in full  and  the  account was closed. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 29-34;  GE
3 at 4; GE 4 at 2; AE B; AE C.)
1.b.  Federal  tax  debt  for  TY  2017  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $4,961.
Applicant acknowledged that he owed the IRS additional taxes for TY 2017. He testified
that this debt was paid through his tax refunds in subsequent years. He provided letters
from his tax preparer bearing the date  of December 29, 2022, which was the date the
letters were reprinted for purposes of submission in this security clearance proceeding.
The annual letters summarize Applicant’s tax status and cover TYs 2014 through 2021.
The letters state that Applicant was due refunds from the IRS for every year except TY
2017,  when  he  owed  an  additional  tax  of  $4,637.  Applicant  volunteered  in  his  initial
security interview on March 21, 2019, that he owed the IRS about $4,000 for TY 2017.
Additional taxes were owed that year because he withdrew funds from his 401K due to
losing his job in 2017 and he was unemployed for a period. Applicant relied upon his 401k
trustee to withhold sufficient taxes at the time of the withdrawal and the  funds withheld
and paid to the IRS and the state proved to be insufficient. As of the date of his security
interview, Applicant had not paid the tax, but he subsequently learned that his tax refunds
for TYs 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2021, which totaled about $6,300, were applied to his TY
2017 tax debt rather than paid to him as refunds. Applicant believes that this tax debt has
been  fully  satisfied.  He  was  unable  to  provide  an  account  transcript  from  the  IRS  to
confirm  the  payment  of  this  tax  debt  because  he  does  not  possess  the  necessary
identifying information, such as a credit card or any other required document, to open an
online account with the IRS. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 34-42; GE 2 at 6; AE A at 2-6.)
1.c.   State  tax   debt   for  TY   2017   in  the   approximate  amount   of   $1,944.
Applicant’s  state  issued  a  garnishment  of  his  wages  in  August  2019  to  pay  this  debt.
Applicant decided  to  pay the  debt through  deductions from  his paycheck. The  debt was
initially  paid by wage  garnishments. At some  point, Applicant entered  into  a  payment plan
with  the  state  to  pay the  balance  of his tax debt.  He  paid  it off  before  2022. He  presented
a  copy of a  state  tax refund  check, dated  October 25, 2022, he  received  for TY 2021,
which  evidences that he  owed  no  additional taxes to  the  state  at that point. This debt is
resolved.  (Tr. at 41-43; GE 7; AE A at 1.)
Paragraph 2 - Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant has a history of excessive
alcohol consumption, which raises security concerns because his drinking can lead to the
exercise  of  questionable  judgment  or  the  failure  to  control  impulses.  The  Government
also alleged that Applicant’s alcohol consumption can raise questions about his reliability
and  trustworthiness.  Specifically,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  consumed
alcohol during a period he was also taking Hydrocodone, a pain killer, which was against
medical advice; that he was treated at a medical facility after a possible suicide attempt
that  involved  alcohol;  that  he  was  charged  with  Driving  Under  the  Influence  (DUI)  of
alcohol; and that he continued to drink alcohol to intoxication. In the Answer, Applicant
admitted the four allegations (SOR ¶¶ 2.a- 2.d) with two explanations.
Applicant  testified   that  he   stopped   drinking   alcohol  on   January  30,   2022,  He
stopped drinking “cold turkey” because  he felt that alcohol was toxic and  he did not want
to  consume  it any more. He also stopped  dating  a  woman  who  wanted  to  go  out  to  bars
and  drink alcohol. He is happier and  his child  is happier that  he  has stopped  drinking. He
has no intention of ever drinking  alcohol again. (Tr. at 43-44.)
2.a. Alcohol consumption with Hydrocodone. Applicant admitted in the Answer
that during the period from August 2012 to June 2015, he drank alcohol while taking the
prescription medication Hydrocodone even though that was against his doctor’s advice.
He explained that during that time period, he had two back surgeries and was suffering
from a lot of pain. He found that combining alcohol with this painkiller medication helped
reduce  his  pain  and  made  him  more  mobile.  In  or  about  late  2015  or  2016,  Applicant
stopped taking Hydrocodone. As discussed below, he was in a bad car accident in 2016
and he refused to take any pain killers. He testified that he presently only takes two Advil
capsules for pain. (Tr. at 44-45, 50.)
2.b.  Suicide   attempt  while   intoxicated.   In   August  2016,  Applicant   had   a   bad
evening  at home  due  to  being  upset  about  his recent divorce and  being  unhappy with  his
relationship  with  a  woman  he  was  dating.  Applicant’s brother came  to  check  on  him  and
found him intoxicated  and with  a knife in his hand. He had self-inflicted cuts on  his arms.
His brother called  the  police, and  Applicant testified  that he  agreed  to  go  with  them  to  a
stabilization  facility for  a  brief hold  to  make  sure he  would not  commit  any serious self
harm.  Applicant  does  not  believe   than   any  prescription   pain  pills  were   involved   in  this
incident, just  alcohol. Applicant has  subsequently committed  himself to  eliminating  toxicity
in his life  and  the  people  around  him  who  cause  it. He has had  no  suicidal ideations since
that evening  and has not engaged in any  further self harm.  (Tr. at 45-47, 50-51.)
2.c.  DUI  arrest  and  charges.  In  October  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged with DUI. His girlfriend at that time was driving, and she had a bad accident. Her
driver’s license had been suspended, and she had been drinking. She told the police that
Applicant was driving. He was intoxicated at the time and went along with the girlfriend’s
story. He was actually in the passenger seat at the time of the accident and hit his head
the front windshield so hard, he lost consciousness. He was taken by helicopter to a large
city hospital where he regained consciousness. He hired a lawyer and a collision expert.
The expert convinced the prosecutor that Applicant was in the passenger seat at the time
of the accident. The charges were dropped. (Tr. at 47-50.)
2.d. Continued  excessive  alcohol consumption. The  Government alleged  that
Applicant continued  to  drink excessively until at least December 2020. Applicant admitted
in  the   Answer that   he  did  continue  to  drink,  but only “a   couple   of   beers”   at  a   time.   He
denied  any  excessive drinking  in  recent  years, and,  as  noted,  he  stopped  drinking  entirely
in January 2022. (Tr.at 48-49.)
Paragraph 3 – Guideline I, Psychological Conditions
3.a. Alcohol consumption with Hydrocodone. The Government cross-alleged
its allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a in SOR ¶ 3.a under Guideline I. Department Counsel was at a
loss to explain the Government’s theory of this allegation and did not ask any questions
or make any argument based upon the alleged facts under this guideline. (Tr. at 55, 65,
71.)
Paragraph 4 - Guideline E, Personal Conduct
In paragraph 4 of the SOR, the Government alleged numerous acts of misconduct
by Applicant, including four falsification allegations. In his Answer, Applicant denied the
falsification allegations with one exception. The Government also cross-alleged his debts
set forth in paragraph 1 and the alcohol consumption allegations in paragraph 2. (Answer
at 3.)
The details regarding each of the SOR allegations set forth in paragraph 4 are as
follows:
4.a.  Falsification  of  e-QIP  question  in  Section  26  regarding  unpaid  taxes.
Applicant testified that to his knowledge, he was paying his Federal and state taxes and
the appropriate answer was to write “No,” he did not fail to pay his taxes. He thought he
was answering the question truthfully. During his security interview about one month after
he  submitted the e-QIP,  Applicant  “volunteered” that he  had  a  federal tax  bill of about
$4,000 and that he had plans to pay the past-due taxes. In a follow-up interview, he stated
that he had not failed to pay his taxes, he merely “short paid,” i.e., under withheld the full
amount of the taxes due. (Tr. at 54, 58-59; GE 2 at 6, 9.)
4.b.  Falsification  of  e-QIP  Question  regarding  financial  delinquencies.
Applicant admitted this allegation. He testified that when he prepared the e-QIP he was
told by others to only provide what he had to. The co-workers who gave him that advice
were older employees who had worked at this company for a long time and had retired.
Applicant was told that he was just an entry-level laborer, and he did not need to worry
about the details like listing his debts. He admitted he did not take the process seriously.
He  has   since   received   a   promotion   and   has  a   better  understanding   of  the   security
clearance  process  and  the  importance  of total honesty in preparing  a  security clearance
application.  He  learned  from  the  security interview process  that  the  advice  he  was  given
was wrong   and  that “even  if  you   are  at the  bottom  of the   food   chain,  it’s very serious.”
With  his promotion  and  his work  in the  inventory field,  he  understands the  sensitivity of
the   information   with   which  he   works.  He  said,  “I  100%  get   it.”  If   he   was  filling   out   the
application  for a  security clearance  today,  he  would provide  even  more information  than
what was asked. (Tr.at 54-57.)
In  his  initial  security  interview  about  one  month  after  he  submitted  his  e-QIP,
Applicant “volunteered” that he had two tax debts and a debt in collection for helicopter
transportation services following a serious accident in 2016. (GE 2 at 6-7.)
4.c.  Falsification of  e-QIP  Section 24  question regarding alcohol treatment or
counseling. Applicant was advised  by older workers that he  should  not disclose  his  brief
stay at the  stabilization  facility  in response  to  the  questions in Section  24  about alcohol
treatment.   He   did   not   want   to   disclose   that   experience,   but   he   also   did   not   view   the
services he  received  there as counseling  or treatment.  He  thought he  was  there to  “just
sleep  it off.” When  he  woke  up  there, he  thought the  facility was just  a  “drunk tank”  to  hold
people while they sober up.  He was only there  overnight and  was released  in  the  morning.
The  reason  Applicant was being  held  at  the   stabilization  facility was to  determine  if he
potentially posed  a  threat  to  himself.  If  he  was not a  threat,  the  facility had  to  release  him,
which   is  what  happened   the   next  morning.  He  did  not  understand   that  this  was  a
counseling  or treatment facility.  He  thought  his answer was  truthful.  (Tr. at  58-59,  61-62.)
4.d.  Deliberate Omission during March 21, 2019  security  interview regarding
treatment at  the  stabilization facility. In  his Answer  Applicant denied  the  allegation  and
wrote  I  “did  not deliberately omit  [this information],  I  wasn’t  aware  that I  had  to  [disclose
it.].”  The   information   he   failed   to   disclose   was  the   self-inflicted   cuts  and   his   suicidal
ideation  that  evening. At his security interview, he  came  to  realize  that his experience  at
the  stabilization  facility could be  viewed  as  a  hospitalization  for a  mental health  condition,
and  he  volunteered  information  to  the  investigator about what happened  to  him  that night
at  his   home   and   at   the   stabilization   facility.  Department  Counsel  conceded   that
Applicant’s  disclosures  were  significant  and  that  any  facts not  discussed  did  not  rise  to
the  level of  a  security-significant  omission  of  material facts  (Answer at 3; Tr.  at  59-66;  GE
2 at 3-4.)
.
4.e.  Cross-allegation  of  the  financial considerations  allegations in paragraph
1. Department  Counsel  did  not pursue  this allegation  at  the  hearing.  The  allegation  has
no   merit.   The   issues  relating   to   Applicant’s  financial  consideration   are  fully  addressed
under  Guideline   F  and   do   not  raise   separate   issues  of   misconduct  cognizable  under
Guideline E.  (Tr. at 61-65.)
4.f. Cross-allegation of  the  alcohol  consumption allegations in  paragraph 2.
Department Counsel  did not pursue  this allegation  at the  hearing. The  allegation  has no
merit.  The  issues  relating  to  Applicant’s  past  alcohol  consumption  are  fully  addressed
under  Guideline  G  and  do  not  raise  separate  issues  of  misconduct  cognizable  under
Guideline E. (Tr. at 61-65.)
