Applicant  is  34  years  old.  He  resides  with  his  girlfriend,  and  they  have  three
children.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma.  He  holds  the  position  of  Senior  Organic
Coating Technician.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  five  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $27,500.
Applicant admitted each of the allegations set forth under this guideline.  Credit reports
of  the  Applicant  dated  April  14,  2020;  July  8,  2021;  January  13,  2022;  and  August  5,
2022,  confirm  that  at  one  time  he  was  indebted  to  each  of  the  creditors  listed  in  the
SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4, 5 and 6.)
Applicant has never applied for a security clearance before.  He began working
for  his  current  employer  in  July  2015.  A  security  clearance  was  not  required  for  the
position that he was originally hired for.  As time passed, his good job performance has
offered him more opportunities if he possesses a security clearance.
Applicant’s  history  of  financial  difficulties  were  caused  by  his  implusive  and
irresponsible  purchases  and  not  living  within  a  budget.  Applicant  explained  that  he
provides all financial support for his three children and his girlfriend  who is house wife
and  stay-at-home  mother.  He  earns  $25  hourly  or  about  $1,000  weekly.  He  now
realizes  that  in  order  to  be  eligible  for  a  security  clearance  he  must  live  within  his
means, follow a budget, and make responsible purchases.
Applicant  recently  hired  a  Credit  Repair  Agency  to  assist  him  in  negotiating
settlements for his delinquent debts, and to help in getting his debts paid off.  His fee for
their  services  is  $2,040.  He  put  an  initial  deposit  of  $200  towards  this  fee  and  pays
them $150.33 on the tenth of every month for twelve consecutive months.
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $17,738 for an account
that was charged off.  In 2016, he purchased a new 2016 Electric Kia for $30, 818, that
he was financing.  Four months after purchasing the car, he realized that he could not
afford to continue making the $500 monthly payments, and he did not have access to a
charging station.  Applicant called the creditor and asked them to pick up the car.  They
told him to stop making payments on the account first.  He stopped making payments,
and  the  car  was  eventually  repossessed  and  sold  at  auction.  Applicant  owes  the
deficiency amount left on the loan after the sale.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 35,
and Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.b.  Applicant was indebted to  a creditor in the amount of $950 for an account
that was charged off.  He explained that he went to a dentist and applied for their credit
card.  This was for the dental bill.  Applicant paid the debt off in September 2022.  (Tr. p.
39 and Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
1.c.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $383  for  an  account
that  was  placed  for  collection.  This  is  car  insurance  that  Applicant  purchased.  He
cancelled it because he found a cheaper insurance.  Applicant paid off the debt on May
20, 2022.  (Tr. p. 41, Applicant’s Exhibit C, and Government Exhibit 6.)
1.d.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $172  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  Applicant does not remember what the debt was for but
does know that he settled the debt for $126.16 on May 20, 2022.  (Tr, pp. 41-42, and
Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
1.e.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $8,246 for the purchase
of a used Nissan Ultima that he purchased in March 2017.  The account was placed for
collection.  Applicant explained that he had no insurance on the car when he was in a
car  accident  which  totaled  the  car  in  May  2017.  Following  the  car  accident,  the  tow
truck  dropped  the  car  off  at  his  apartment.
It  was  being  financed  through  General
Motors.  The car was sold at auction for scraps.  Applicant owed the deficiency amount
of $8,000.  Applicant confirms that the creditor plans to send him a Form 1099 C.  (Tr.
pp.  42-46.)  An  excerpt  from  Applicant’s  Experian  credit  report  indicates  that  it  was
“legally paid in full for less that the full balance”.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
A  letter of recommendation  from  Applicant’s supervisor on  2nd  shift  indicates that
Applicant has high  standards.   He displays excellent work ethics, and  always  does what
is  right  for  his  team   and   the   company.     He  is  a   delight  to   work  with   and   is   extremely
trustworthy.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit C.)
Applicant’s  performance  appraisals  for  the  periods  from  2020  and  2022  reflect
ratings  of  “effective”  and  “strong”  in  every  category.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit
B.)
Applicant  has  received  a  number  of  awards  from  his  company  for  good  job
performance.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)
