Applicant  is  62  years  old.  He  is  divorced.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and
some  college.  He  has  also  received  training  as  a  Certified  Substance  Abuse
Counselor, and a Certified Aircraft Mechanic.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)  He is employed
by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  Aircraft  Mechanic.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance  in  connection  with  this  employment.  He  began  working  for  his  current
employer in July 12, 2021.  (Government Exhibit 1).  He nets about $1,100 weekly.  He
is  also  an  Uber  driver  and  earns  between  $400  and  $500  a  month.  He  has  never
applied for a security clearance before, and he has no military service.
Guideline J – Criminal Conduct
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  SOR  alleges  twenty-one  charges,  arrests  or  both,  spanning  most  of
Applicant’s early adult life, beginning in 1988, and continuing until 2010.  They include
numerous  crimes  such  as  Theft,  Robbery,  Burglary,  Possession  of  Narcotics,  Open
Container  in  Public,  and  others,  related  to  his  history  of  drug  and  alcohol  abuse,  and
addiction.  These  crimes  resulted  in  convictions,  and  Applicant  either  spent  time  in
county  jail  or  in  prison  to  satisfy  the  sentencing  requirements  for  these  violations.
Applicant admits to each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  (Applicant’s Answer to
SOR.)  His  criminal  attorney  is  currently  working  to  expunge  his  criminal  record.
(Applicant’s Exhibits A and B.)
In  1988,  Applicant  was  28  or  29  years  old  when  he  began  having  drug  and
alcohol problems.  He explained that his mother raised him with his grandmother, and
they lived together.  It was about this time that his grandmother, with whom he was very
close, passed away.  Applicant suffered from severe depression and went in the wrong
direction.  He  started  using  illegal  drugs  like  marijuana,  cocaine,  and  alcohol  and  as
time passed he became addicted.  To support his drug and alcohol habit, he would steal
things like clothes out of people’s garages.  As time passed and his habit increased, he
had to steal more frequently to maintain his habit.  Following each arrest and conviction,
he  served  time  in  jail,  anywhere  from  several  weeks  to  several  months;  and  on  two
occasions, he went to prison.  He estimates that he spent a total of about seven years
of his life incarcerated for his criminal acts.  (Tr. pp. 33-34.)
The following arrest history is of security concern and in chronological order:
u.
In  March  1988,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Felony  Burglary;  First
degree  Felony  Burglary;  Second  Degree  and  Misdemeanor  Theft  Petty/Theft  of
Personal  Property.  Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant
admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In  June 1988,  Applicant  was arrested and  charged  with  Robbery in  the  Second
t.
Degree.  Although he does not remember all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this
criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In  September  1988,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Misdemeanor-
s.
Theft  Petty/Theft  of  Personal  Property.  Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the
particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
r.
In  November  1988,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Misdemeanor
Grand Theft of Personal Property and Felony/Receiving ETC Stolen Property.  Although
he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal  conduct.
(Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
q.
In  April  1989,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  4  counts  of
Infraction/Drinking  Alcoholic  Beverages  on  Street,  2  counts  of  Felony  Possession  of
Stolen Property, and 1 count of Misdemeanor-Possession of Stolen Property.  Although
he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal  conduct.
(Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In November 1989, Applicant was charged with Petty Theft with prior conviction.
p.
Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal
conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
o.
In  December  1989,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Theft.  Although  he  does  not
remember all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51,
and 68.)
n.
In April 1990, Applicant was arrested and charged with Open Alcohol Container
in  Public  in  place  not  licensed  for  alcohol  consumption.  Although  he  does  not
remember all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51,
and 68.)
m.
In May 1990, Applicant was charged with Possession of a controlled substance.
Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal
conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In October 1990, Applicant was arrested and charged with Burglary.  Although he
l.
does not remember all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr.
p. 33-51, and 68.)
In  November  1990,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Possession
k.
Narcotics Controlled Substance.  Although he does not remember all of the particulars,
Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In May 1991, Applicant was charged with two counts of Burglary and Possession
j.
Narcotics Controlled Substance.  Although he does not remember all of the particulars,
Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
i.
In July 1991, Applicant was arrested and charged with one count of Possession
Narcotics – Prob Rev and Burglary in the First degree.  Although he does not remember
all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
i.
In  August  1992,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Prisoner  who  commits  escape  or
attempt an escape without force or violence.  Although he does not remember all of the
particulars, Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
g.
In  April  1993,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Burglary,  Forgery  and  Trespassing.
Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal
conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
f.
In   July  1993,  Applicant  was  charged   with   1-F ATT Robbery.     Although   he  does
not remember all  of the  particulars, Applicant  admitted  this criminal conduct.   (Tr. p. 33-
51, and  68.)
e.
In October 1993, Applicant was arrested and charged with 1CT1 Robbery in the
Second  Degree.  Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant
admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
d.
In  August  1996,  Applicant  was  arrested  and charged  with  Petty  Theft  with  prior
conviction and parole violation.  Although he does not remember all of  the particulars,
Applicant admitted this criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
c.
In January 1997, Applicant was arrested and charged with Petty Theft with prior.
Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal
conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
In  April  2005,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  While  Privilege
b.
Suspended  or  Revoked;  Reckless  Driving;  and  Driving  Without  A  Valid  License.
Although  he  does  not  remember  all  of  the  particulars,  Applicant  admitted  this  criminal
conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
a.
In  September  2010,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  While  Privilege
Suspended or Revoked; Driving without a Valid License; and Violate Written Promise to
Appear.  Although he does not remember all of the particulars, Applicant admitted this
criminal conduct.  (Tr. p. 33-51, and 68.)
Following  his  last  conviction,  Applicant  made  amends  to  himself  to  immediately
go  to  college  and  educate  himself  on  his  past  behavior.  He  attended  Charles  Drew
University and became a Certified Alcohol and Drug Counselor.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
He then acquired the experience he needed by working for various agencies, including
a  local  hospital’s  substance abuse detoxication unit, and a mental health  ward, before
he opened his own program.  His program was, for the most part, funded by the county
to  help  those  suffering  from  substance  abuse.  He  became  very  successful  for  many
years from 1999 to 2014.  During that period, he worked closely with the Department of
Mental Health and other contractor programs throughout the area and provided help to
many individuals in the community addressing their substance addictions and educating
them about their disease.  The last place he had was a 35-bed men’s facility for alcohol
and drug recovery that also provided all meals and other necessities.  His goal was to
make sure  that  people would get off  the street and had a place  to live  that addressed
their mental health issues and their addictions.  Many people came from various jails, or
were  simply  down  on  their  luck  and  needed  help.  Applicant  was  eventually  forced  to
close  his  program  due  to  county  budgetary  cuts  and  changes  that  eliminated  the
financial support for these programs.  (Tr. p. 24, and Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
Guideline F – Financial Considerations
a.  Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for a tax lien filed against him
in  April  2010  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $23,929.  At  the  time  of  the  SOR
the
amendment,
Amendment dated August 19, 2022.)
lien  remained  unpaid.
(Applicant’s  Response
the
to
b.  Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for a tax lien filed against him in
February 2012 in the approximate amount of  $31,139.  Applicant admits that at
the  time  of  the  SOR  amendment,  the  lien  remained  unpaid.
(Applicant’s
Response to the Amendment dated August 19, 2022.)
c.  Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for a tax lien filed against him in
May  2020  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $75,437.  Applicant  admits  that  at  the
time of the SOR amendment, the lien remained unpaid.  (Applicant’s Response
to the Amendment dated August 19, 2022.
d.  Applicant is indebted to the State for a tax lien filed against him in January 2014
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,881.  Applicant  admits  that  at  the  time  of  the
SOR  amendment,  the  lien  remained  unpaid.
(Applicant’s  Response  to  the
Amendment dated August 19, 2022.)
e.  Applicant is indebted to the State for a tax lien filed against him in June 2015 in
the approximate amount of $6,559.  Applicant admits that at the time of the SOR
amendment,
the
Amendment dated August 19, 2022.)
lien  remained  unpaid.
(Applicant’s  Response
the
to
Appellant  explained  that  about  ten  years  ago,  he  did  not  file  his  income  tax
returns on time or pay his taxes as he  should  have for  several  years.  As a  result, he
has owes a large amount of money to the tax authorities for delinquent back taxes.  He
is  now  trying  to  address  these  issues.  To  stay  in  their  good  graces,  he  recently
contacted both taxing authorities and set up a monthly installment payment plan of $150
monthly that he pays to the State and to the Federal Government respectively.  To date,
he has made two payments of $150 to each tax authority.  It is his understanding that
$100,000 of his Federal tax debt will fall off of his credit report in April 2023, and will no
longer be collectible.  Once that  occurs, he will  begin to address  the  remainder owed.
(Tr. pp. 79-89 and Applicant’s Exhibits F, G, H and I.)
From  his  current  employer,  Applicant  has  received  a  number  of  Certificates  of
Achievement  for  training,  course  completions,  and  Certification,  and  has  been
recognized  for  outstanding  performance.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  C.)  He  states  that  his
annual  appraisals  reflect  outstanding  performance,  and  he  recently  received  a  pay
raise.  (Tr. 77.)
