Applicant  is  28  years  old  and  a  high  school  graduate  (2013).  He  attended
community college for about three months in the fall of 2013.  He married in April 2018
and has one child, a daughter age four. He purchased a home in November 2019. From
September  2015  to  March  2021,  he  worked  as  a  support  engineer  for  a  large  cloud
computing  company.  Since  March  2021.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  data  center
technician  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  never  held  a  clearance.  (Item  3  and
Response.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) used marijuana with varying frequency from
about  November  2010  until  at  least  October  2020;  and  (2)  purchased  marijuana  with
varying  frequency  from  about  November  2010  until  about  October  2020.  (Item  1.)
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations. (Item 2.)
In  his  July  7,  2021  Personal  Subject  Interview  (PSI),  Applicant  described  his
marijuana use from November 2010 to October 2020. His use was experimental and to
be sociable. He used with a friend, AA, at another friend’s house. The drug was obtained
by AA. He only bought marijuana once, and that was from AA.  AA still used drugs but
Applicant did not know which drugs or in what amounts. The marijuana made him feel
relaxed but had no impact on  his personality, judgment, reliability, work, or friends. He
had no intent to use illegal drugs in the future. He was not dependent on marijuana. (Item
4.)
Applicant described his LSD use from March 2015 to May 2017. He used LSD as
an experiment after seeing a movie. He used it twice, with his friend, AA, who obtained it.
It made him feel anxious and uncomfortable.  The use took place once at a hotel room
and once  at a college dorm but had no impact on his personality, judgment, reliability,
work, or friends. He has no intent to use illegal drugs in the future. He was not dependent
on LSD. (Item 4.)
In his PSI, Applicant described his cocaine use in July 2016. He used it once. He
used it with a friend, BB, at a bar. BB obtained it. It made him feel hung over but had no
impact on his personality, judgment, reliability, work, or friends. He had no intent to use
illegal drugs in the future. He is not dependent on cocaine. (Item 4.)
AA  is one  of Applicant’s friends from  high  school. They now live  in different and
not adjacent states. They text and play games “every once and a while.”  He stated: “But
we don’t see  each  other every other month. Only when  my family and  I  come visit my
parents in [AA’s state] or when [AA] comes to [Applicant’s state] to visit. So we only see
each other 2-5 times a year.” BB was a friend from middle school through high school.
They drifted apart. They text or talk to each other perhaps once a year. (Item 4.)
In Applicant’s May 24, 2022 response to a DOHA Interrogatory asking the last time
he used marijuana, he said: “I genuinely can’t remember the last time I used marijuana
or a THC product. It’s been about 2 years now. 10/2020 would be a rough guess as to
the last time.” (Item 4.) In his Response, he stated that “it’s been almost 3 years since I
used any THC/Marijuana product.”  (Item 4.) In his Response to the FORM, he stated his
regret for his past use of marijuana and also emphasized that he is now a husband, a
father, and the primary provider for his family.
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under Adjudicative Guideline (AG) H, suitability of an applicant may be questioned
or put into doubt because drug use can both impair judgment and raise questions about
a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG ¶¶ 24, 25,
and 26 set forth the concern and the disqualifying and mitigating conditions.
The illegal use  of controlled substances, to include the  misuse of prescription
and   non-prescription   drugs,  and   the   use   of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental  impairment or are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent with  their
intended   purpose   can   raise   questions  about  an   individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior  may  lead   to   physical  or
psychological  impairment   and   because   it  raises  questions  about   a   person's
ability  or  willingness  to   comply  with   laws,  rules,  and   regulations.  Controlled
substance   means  any   "controlled   substance"   as  defined   in  21   U.S.C.  802.
Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in this guideline  to  describe  any
of the  behaviors listed  above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and
AG ¶  25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including
cultivation, processing, manufacture, purchase, sale, or distribution; or
possession of drug paraphernalia.
Applicant admitted to purchasing marijuana (once, from AA) and using marijuana
from November 2010 to October 2020. Facts admitted by an applicant in an answer to an
SOR require no further proof from the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App.
Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c) apply.
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the  memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes  that  federal
law  remains   unchanged   with   respect   to   the   illegal  use,  possession,  production,  and
distribution  of marijuana. Individuals who  hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited   by  law  from   using   controlled   substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but
not determinative,  to  adjudications of eligibility.  Agencies  are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person   concept”  stated   under  SEAD  4,  to   determine   whether  the   applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
I have also considered the following mitigating conditions under AG H:
AG  ¶ 26(a) the  behavior happened  so  long  ago, was so  infrequent, or
occurred  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely  to  recur and  does
not cast  doubt on  the individual's  current reliability, trustworthiness, or
good judgment; and
AG  ¶ 26(b) the  individual  acknowledges  his  or her  drug  involvement and
substance   misuse,   provides  evidence   of  actions  taken   to   overcome   this
problem,  and   has  established   a   pattern  of  abstinence,  including   but  not
limited to:
(1)  disassociation from  drug-using associates and contacts;
(2)   changing  or avoiding  the environment where  drugs were used: and
(3)  providing  a signed statement of intent to  abstain from all future drug
involvement and substance  misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility.
Under AG ¶  25(a), Applicant’s marijuana  use  started  in November 2010, which  is
quite  long  ago. It  continued, however until October 2020. So  it did recur during  that 10-
year  period   and   ended   quite   recently.  Therefore,  Applicant’s  illegal  drug   usage   is  not
mitigated  by AG ¶  25(a).
The  key under mitigating  factor AG ¶  26(b) is the  “pattern  of  abstinence.” Subparts
(1) through  (3) are simply nonexclusive  examples of how such  a  pattern may be  shown.
It  seems  that  certain  changes in  Applicant’s  life  have  operated  to  disassociate  him  from
his former drug-using  friends. In  particular, he  and AA now live  in different, not  adjacent,
states  and  see  each  other only several times a  year. Similarly, he  is now a  homeowner,
married,  and the father of  a four-year old  child. So, the former drug-using environment is
no  more.  These are all salutary changes.
Here,  the  “pattern  of  abstinence”  must  be  weighed  against  a  lengthy  period  of
marijuana use. Applicant began his marijuana use in high school in 2020, not a particularly
unusual time or place for that to happen. He did, however, continue that recreational use
until  about  October  2020,  by  his  own  estimate.  He  claimed  he  is  not  dependent  on
marijuana  and  has  no  intent  to  use  it  in  the  future.  There  is nothing  in  the  record  that
contradicts  his  representations.  But  his  10  years  of  prior  marijuana  use  outweigh  his
recent  few  years  of  abstinence.  This  is  not  to  minimize  his  current  track  record  of
abstinence; it is commendable. If he continues on his present path, he could be a worthy
candidate  for  reapplication.  At  this  point,  however,  it  is  not  sufficient  to  mitigate  his
extended history of marijuana use. I must find against him on SOR ¶ 1.
I  find  that  Applicant’s  one-time  use  of  cocaine  and  his  twice-use  of  LSD do  not
raise national security concerns.
The  record raises doubts about  Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1) through (9) and 2(f)(1) through (6).  Accordingly, I conclude that
Applicant has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.b:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In  light of the record as  a whole, it is not clearly  consistent with the  interests of
national security to grant Applicant access to classified information. Clearance is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
