Applicant  is  38  years  old,  married,  and  has  four  minor  children.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 2007. He is currently employed by a  private company, and he has
been offered a position as an engineer with a Government contractor, which is sponsoring
him to apply for a security clearance. He has held a security clearance in the past, and
he is seeking to renew his eligibility for a security clearance in relation to his prospective
employment. (Tr. at 12-20.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
In  this  paragraph  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  engaged  in  conduct
involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  an  unwillingness  to
comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  which  raise  questions  about  his  reliability,
trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. The details of the
allegations are as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a. December 2020 Employment Termination. The Government alleged
that Applicant  was terminated from his employment  in December 2020  after he  tested
positive for THC during a random drug test on October 20, 2020.
In January 2020, Applicant began working for Company A in State 1. He claimed
he was surprised that he tested positive for THC in October 2020 because he does not
use marijuana or any cannabis product. He testified that a few days prior to the drug test,
he had experimented using CBD oil for the first time. He had migraine headaches, and a
co-worker, or “a few co-workers,” had suggested that CBD oil had helped her/them with
migraines. He used the CBD oil two or three times during the week prior to the drug test,
including the night before the test. He concluded that the CBD oil must have contained
THC. He claimed he was unaware that the CBD oil contained THC when he used it. (Tr.
at 26-33, 67-68.)
Applicant testified that his wife had purchased the CBD oil for her medical condition
when they lived in State 2. In that state, marijuana and CBD oil with THC could be legally
purchased. He testified that he  was aware that some CBD oils sold in State 2 contain
THC. When Applicant and his family moved from State 2 to State 1 in about August 2019,
Applicant claimed that the CBD oil was in a box that moved with them. He claimed that
after his positive drug test he inspected his wife’s bottle of CBD oil. The label provided no
indication that the CBD oil contained any THC. (Tr. at 26-33, 67-68.)
In support of his case, Applicant submitted a letter from his long-time psychiatrist
in State 2. The psychiatrist wrote that he believed Applicant’s explanation for the positive
drug  test.  He  also  wrote  that  Applicant  was  a  trustworthy  and  compliant  patient.  He
provided  a  comment  that  directly  contradicted  Applicant’s  testimony  of  his history  with
CBD oil. He stated:
Prior to moving to [State 1] he reported to me in an office visit that he had
some success with CBD for his migraines that had worsened when his son
was apparently molested in the school he was attending.
AE W at 1-2. The psychiatrist also wrote, “Apparently the CBD oil he had purchased in
[State 2] was not pure CBD and had some THC in it as well.” AE W at 1.
Applicant explained to his employer over the phone that he did not use marijuana
and that the test results were due to his accidental ingestion of THC when he used CBD
oil not knowing that the oil contained THC. Applicant claimed that his employer was not
interested in the details of his explanation for his positive drug test. Applicant did not offer
to show his employer the CBD oil bottle or even to send his supervisor a picture of the
label as evidence of his lack of knowledge about the contents of the oil. He testified that
he threw the bottle away because he did not want to keep it in his home. (Tr. at 26-35.
67-68.)
After  the  positive  drug  test,  Company  A  put  Applicant  on  unpaid  administrative
leave, but agreed to give him the opportunity to remain with the company by signing a
Last Clear Chance Agreement (LCCA) (AE A). Under the LCCA Applicant was required
to complete substance abuse counseling. He met with his employer’s drug counselor and
explained why he thought he tested positive for THC. The counselor accepted Applicant’s
explanation and issued a letter to Company A, dated November 2, 2020 (AE B), in which
the counselor commented that he had provided drug counseling and concluded that no
formal  drug  treatment  or  additional  counseling  was  necessary.  The  letter  stated  that
Applicant can return to work once he provides a negative drug test result to Company A.
(Tr. at 36-38; AE A; AE B.)
Applicant’s  supervisor  repeated  that  he  could  return  to  work  once  he  provided
evidence of a negative drug test. The supervisor instructed Applicant that he would then
take a second test at the on-site medical facility Company A used for drug tests. Applicant
claimed  that  the  required  protocol  was  not  really  laid  out  for  him,  but  then  he  testified
about exactly what the LCCA and his supervisor required. (Tr. at 36-38.)
Applicant purchased an at-home drug test that produced a pass or fail test result.
Company A rejected the test result and insisted that Applicant go to a testing facility and
take a controlled drug test. He claimed he did not know that his employer would reject a
home test. He claimed the process “was really confusing.” He wanted his employer to tell
him where to get tested, and the company’s response was for him to find a testing facility
using Google, which he eventually did. In his testimony, he repeatedly claimed that it was
complicated to get tested in his rural environment. Nine days after the November 2, 2020
letter, he finally found a local testing place, but it was closed for Veteran’s Day. He went
to another local testing facility and was tested. A mistake was made, and the specimen
label was a mismatch. (AE D) The test needed to be redone. He retested and received a
negative drug test on November 25, 2020 (AE E). On December 10, 2020, he wrote to
his supervisor at Company A and asked if the company had everything it needed (AE F).
(Tr. at 33-47, 49, 53-55; AE A through AE F; Post-Hearing Statement at 2.)
After all of the explanations for his delays, Applicant agreed he could have handled
finding a testing facility better. He kept repeating how difficult it was because he lived in
a rural area, but he also acknowledged he could have driven to a city and been tested
there. He testified that during the intervening time, he bought several more at home drug
tests because he did not want to have a surprise and to get a bad test result in a controlled
lab test. (Tr. at 41-43.)
Company A provided the Government a different set of facts from which Company
A  concluded that  Applicant  was not being  truthful when he provided  information to  his
supervisor, the Company A medical facility, and during a subsequent investigation. The
difference  had  to  do  with  the  timelines  Applicant  provided  to  the  company  about  a
complicated history of his attempts to get a simple drug test completed in a timely fashion.
Company A was also concerned about inconsistent statements Applicant made during a
phone interview with Applicant on or about November 18, 2020, regarding his attempts
to obtain a drug test. Applicant described this interview “as more of an interrogation that
I was blindsided with” and was unprepared to answer the questions of the representatives
of Company A. The questions dealt with his attempts to get drug tested during the 16-day
period  from  the  drug  counselor’s  November  2,  2022  letter  to  November  18,  2022.  He
provided one timeline on the phone and then a second timeline in writing. (GE 3 at 1, 5,
12-13.)
In Applicant’s  Post-Hearing Statement, he admitted that he misspoke during his
interview with  Company  A  about  the  timeline  of his activities  during  the  preceding  two
weeks.  He  blamed  his  errors  on  his  lack  of  opportunity  to  prepare  for  the  interview.
Company  A  terminated  Applicant  by  phone  on  or  about  December  14,  2020,  and  the
parties signed a Separation Agreement, dated  January 12, 2021. (GE 3 at 1, 5, 11-13,
22-28; Post Hearing Statement at 4.)
Applicant’s  testimony  about  his  attempts  to  be  tested  in  November  2020  was
similarly confusing and unconvincing, creating the overall impression that Applicant was
attempting to delay his drug test in the first half of November 2020  after having tested
positive for THC on October 20, 2020. His testimony lacked credibility in all key respects.
SOR  ¶  1.b.  Falsification  in  March  2021  e-QIP;  Amendment  to  the  SOR.
Applicant  failed  to  disclose  in  his  e-QIP  that  Company  A  terminated  him  in  December
2020, about three months earlier. Section 13A of the e-QIP asked for Applicant to provide
the  “Reason  for  Leaving”  his  employment  at  Company  A.  He  misleadingly  wrote  in
response:  “Presented  with  the  opportunity  to  work  again  for  the  Navy  as  a  [specific
position.]” A follow-up question in the e-QIP asked with respect to this employment, “Have
any of the following happened to you[:] “Fired; Quit after being told you would be fired;
Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of  misconduct;  or  Left  by
mutual  agreement  following  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance?”  Applicant  falsely
answered this question, “No.”
Applicant testified that his errors in responding to the two e-QIP questions were
“inadvertent.” He explained that his comment in the e-QIP about the job opportunity with
the  Navy  was  merely  draft  language  he  used  as  a  “placeholder”  in  the  form  while  he
consulted with his attorney about how to respond to the question. The attorney did not
respond to Applicant’s email. He signed and submitted the e-QIP with the draft language
unchanged. He testified that he was impatient to get the application submitted and made
a mistake. He did not satisfactorily explain his negative answer to the second question
about being fired. (Tr. at 55.)
In his Post-Hearing Statement, he provided another reason for wanting to discuss
with an attorney his response to this question. He claimed that he felt he needed legal
advice on whether he could disclose the termination under the terms of his Severance
Agreement, which included a confidentiality clause. The confidentiality clause in Section
8 of the Severance Agreement contains exceptions, including “anyone having a need to
know  the  contents  of  the  Agreement[.]”  Also,  the  last  paragraph  of  the  Confidentiality
section of the Agreement makes it clear that Company  A did not want Applicant to tell
anyone he received a financial package as part of his severance. The protection sought
by Company A in the Confidentiality Section was not addressed to the question whether
Applicant  had  been  terminated,  since  the  confidentiality  language  was  in  a  severance
agreement. Among all of the numerous documents provided by Applicant both before and
after the  hearing,  he  did  not  include  his email  to  his attorney.  Also,  Applicant  failed  to
mention his termination from Company A during his initial security interview on April 28,
2021. When questioned about his termination in a follow-up interview, he provided this
same  excuse  to  the  Government  investigator  as  he  gave  at  the  hearing  regarding  the
Navy position language just to serve as a placeholder while he completed the rest of the
form. (GE 2 at 3-5, 5-6; Post-Hearing Statement at 5.)
Applicant  also  maintains  that  he  was  never  told  by  Company  A  why  he  was
terminated. Accordingly, he argued in his Post-Hearing Statement that “I was not under
the impression that my severance with [Company A] [was] a result of being fired and/or
left by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct.” He claims his
“No” answer to the e-QIP question regarding the end of his employment with Company A
was accurate. This information is contradicted by his acknowledgement in his follow-up
security  interview  on  June  25,  2021.  In  that  interview  he  discussed  his  termination  by
Company A. He advised the Government investigator that he was called on December
14,  2020,  by  a  Company  A  human  resources  representative  and  advised  that  he  was
being terminated. He reported that he was told that his termination was related to incorrect
dates and information he provided to the company regarding his drug tests in November
2020. (GE 2 at 5, 7; Post-Hearing Statement at 6; Amendment Response at 2.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant’s illegal drug use raised
questions about his reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead
to physical or psychological impairment and because it raised questions about his ability
or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  The  details  regarding  this
allegation are as follows:
SOR ¶ 2.a. Positive Drug Test. The Government alleged that in or about October
2020, Applicant tested positive for THC in a  random  employer-administered urinalysis.
Applicant admitted this allegation in his Answer with an explanation about his use of his
wife’s CBD oil without knowing that it contained THC. He explained that the presence of
THC  in  his  body  at  the  time  of  the  drug  test  was  accidental  and  merely  an  “isolated
Incident.” (Answer at 3-4.)
Paragraph 3 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
is
financially  overextended  and
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR
identified  six  past-due  debts  that  have  been  charged-off  or  referred  to  collection.  The
debts total about $63,000. In his Answer, Applicant denied each of the allegations, but
asserted that two of the debts are being repaid through a payment plan arranged by a
third party, three of the debts are under negotiations, and one debt is disputed due to a
mismatch of the debt amounts. (Answer at 7.)
In  or about 2018  Applicant and  his wife  attempted  to  create  a  start-up,  defense-
contracting  business.  They  were   set up   to   commence   their   business  when   their  three-
year-old  son   was  molested   by   his  preschool  teacher.   The   family  experienced   a
“nightmare”  seeking   counseling   for  their   son   and   the   expense   of   his  treatment.   The
therapist  did  not  accept insurance  coverage, so   Applicant  had  to  pay the  medical bills.
Applicant took time  off  from  work for a  period  (March to  November 2019) to  take  care  of
his family. He  moved his family from  State  2  to a remote  part of  State  1 to  help his family
heal from  their  trauma.  Without  Applicant’s income, he  and  his wife  paid their  expenses
with  their  credit cards  and  incurred  medical  bills and  other debts that are alleged  in  the
SOR. Less  than  half of  the  debts were  incurred  in connection  with  the  start-up business
and the  rest  of the  debts were  incurred  while Applicant was not working. (Tr. at 70-76, 91-
92.)
In June 2019, Applicant sought debt counseling from a credit-counseling company
(CCC). He was advised to stop paying his debts so that CCC could negotiate payment
plans with the creditors. He followed this advice, and the debts listed in the SOR were
included  along  with  others  in  a  debt-settlement  program  undertaken  by  CCC  (the
Program).  Applicant  has  been  making  payments  of  about  $940  per  month  into  the
Program for about 41 months. (Tr. at 76-83, 92, 94; Answer.)
The current status of the debts alleged in paragraph 3 of the SOR is as follows:
SOR ¶ 3.a. Credit-Card Account Charged Off in the Approximate Amount of
$5,954. Applicant defaulted on this account in 2019. In June 2019, Applicant hired CCC,
which advised him to stop paying this account along with others, including the five other
accounts alleged in the SOR. Applicant is currently making payments on this debt through
the Program. This debt is being resolved. (Answer at 7; Tr. at 83-84, 96-97, 101; GE 1 at
50-51; GE 4 at 3; GE 5 at 3; AE Q at 2.)
SOR  ¶  3.b.  Unsecured-Loan  Account  Charged  Off  in  the  Approximate
Amount of $17,444. Applicant opened this account in July 2018 and defaulted on this
account in November 2019. The debt is listed in the CCC’s December 2022 status report
under  a  different  collection  agency’s  name.  The  report  evidences  that  Applicant  is
currently making payments on this debt through the Program. This debt is being resolved.
(Answer at 7; Tr. at 84-85; GE 1 at 51; GE 4 at 7, 10; AE Q at 2.)
SOR ¶ 3.c. Credit-Card Account in Collection in the Approximate Amount of
$5,870.  Applicant  defaulted  in  paying  this  account  in  2019.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
correctly stated that the amount alleged in the SOR is significantly different than the past-
due amounts shown in the Government’s credit reports. It appears from the Answer that
he is disputing this allegation. However, the CCC’s December 2022 status report reflects
that the amount of this debt is $10,787, which is the correct amount according to the credit
reports,  and  that  the  debt  was  paid  in  the  settlement  amount  of  $4,316.  This  debt  is
resolved. (Tr. at 85-86, 96-97, 99; GE 4 at 8; GE 5 at 7; GE 6 at 3; GE 8 at 1; AE Q at 1.)
SOR ¶ 3.d. Credit-Card Account in Collection in the Approximate Amount of
$9,179.  Applicant  defaulted  in  paying  this  account  in  2019.  This  debt  and  the  debts
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.e and 3.f, all owed to the same creditor, are to be resolved in the
future by CCC. These debts will be resolved by CCC in the future under the Program. (Tr.
at 86-87; GE 4 at 11; GE 5 at 11; AE Q at 2.)
SOR ¶ 3.e. Credit-Card Account in Collection in the Approximate Amount of
$16,851. Applicant defaulted in paying this account in 2019. See discussion in SOR ¶ 3.d,
above. (Tr. at 86-87; GE 4 at 11; GE 5 at 11; AE Q at 2.)
SOR ¶¶ 3.f. Credit-Card Account in Collection in the Approximate amount of
$7,238. Applicant defaulted in paying this account in 2019. See discussion in SOR ¶ 3.d,
above. GE 4 at 13; GE 5 at 13; AE Q at 2.)
The   December  2022   CCC  status  report  indicates  that  five   of  Applicant’s  debts
totaling  about $41,000  have  been  paid  through  the  Program. The  status report also shows
that settlements of three of the debts totaling about $30,000 are in the process of being
paid every month, and that four debts owed to the creditor, three of which are listed in
SOR  ¶¶  3.d,  3e,  and  3f,  totaling  about  $45,000  are  to  be  negotiated  and  settled  with
payments in the future. (AE Q at 1-2.)
Whole-Person and Other Mitigation Evidence
Applicant provided six character-reference letters with his Answer (Answer Att. 7
through 12) and he resubmitted the same letters with his Post-Hearing Submission (AE
H through  M).  The  letters were  prepared by friends  and  former co-workers. One  letter
was written by a retired Navy lieutenant commander, and another was written by a retired
Navy  command  master  chief.  They  all  praise  Applicant’s  character.  The  following  are
sample  comments  about  Applicant’s  character:  “impeccable  integrity;”  “devoted  family
man;”  “passionate  and  driven  person;”  “trustworthy  and  deserving  of  a  position  in
defense;”  “an  intelligent,  honest,  motivated  and  reliable  person;”  “friendly,  patient  and
outgoing;”  “reliable,  loyal,  trustworthy;”  “competent;”  “patriot;”  “hard  working;”  “strong
moral  fiber;”  “dedicated  beyond  reproach;”  and  “absolutely  deserving  of  the  security
clearance he seeks.” (AE H through M.)
As noted, Applicant also provided a letter from his psychiatrist in which the writer
expressed his view that he believed Applicant ingested THC unknowingly with CBD oil.
He  treated  Applicant  for  ten  years  and  always  found  him  to  be  trustworthy.  He  also
believes that Company A treated Applicant unfairly by terminating him. (AE W.)
Applicant also submitted copies of 13 awards that he received from the Navy and
his former employer in State 2 for his excellent work. In addition, he provided a statement
of intent in which he committed to never use illegal drugs and agreed to the automatic
revocation of his security clearance in the event that he broke his commitment. He also
submitted a June 2022 credit report and a budget of his income and expenses.  (AE N;
AE U; AE V.)
