Applicant is 52 years old. She married in 1996 and separated in 2009. She has not
divorced. She and her husband have an adult child. She earned a bachelor’s degree in
1995  and  technical  certifications  in  2001  and  2014.  She  is  a  first-time  applicant  for  a
security clearance. Since March 2021, Applicant has been employed as an information
technology analyst by a major U.S Government contractor. She seeks national security
eligibility in connection with her employment. (Tr. at 11-19; GE 1 at 7, 13-15, 24, 26-31,
46-47; AE B; AE E; AE F; AE J.)
Paragraph 1 - Guideline I, Psychological Conditions
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for a security
clearance  because  she  has  a  psychological  condition  that  raises  security  concerns.
Specifically, the SOR alleged that Applicant has experienced multiple hospitalizations for
psychiatric issues and has been diagnosed with a number of mental health conditions.
The SOR allegations and the relevant record evidence are as follows:
1.a. Hospitalization for psychiatric issues. The SOR alleged that between 1997
and  2015,  Applicant  has  been  hospitalized  several  times  due  to  her  mental  health
condition.  In  her  Answer,  she  admitted  the  allegation  and  explained  that  she  sought
treatment  for  trauma  during  her  childhood  consisting  of  physical  and  emotional  abuse
from her father. She also experienced additional stressors due to her failed marriage and
raising a child with Asperger’s Syndrome. (Answer at 1-2.)
Applicant testified that she experienced more than five voluntary and  involuntary
hospitalizations  due  to  her mental health  condition  in  the  past.  Her  last  hospitalization
was in March 2016. The hospitalization started out voluntary but ended up as a 72-hour
involuntary hold  due  to  Applicant  expressing  suicidal thoughts.  She  explained  that her
mental health problems were due to her physical and emotional abuse from her father
from age 4 to 14. She developed a fear that her decisions would result in  punishment.
Her last contact with her father was seven years  ago, when she was 45. She believes
that her mental-health condition has greatly improved since she cut ties witih her father
and became her own person. (Tr. at 17-27, 39-40.)
1.b. 2015 diagnosis of several mental health conditions. The SOR alleged that
Applicant  was  diagnosed  in  2015  with  Major  Depressive  Disorder,  recurrent,  severe
without psychosis; Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD); Personal History of Attention
Deficit Disorder and Hyperactivity Disorder; and Dependent Personality Disorder. In the
Answer,  she  admitted  the  allegation  but  questioned  whether  she  had  ever  been
diagnosed with Dependent Personality Disorder. She testified that she first learned about
these diagnoses by reading the Government’s evidence. She explained that psychiatrists
do  not  like  to  share  their  technical  diagnosis  with  her  as  the  patient,  they  just  provide
general  terms  about  her  condition.  She  is  currently  taking  four  medications  and  her
primary care physician manages her  prescriptions. She has been taking this particular
combination of medications since 2015 or 2016, and she believes they are very effective
in managing her health. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 29-30, 47.)
1.c  Treatment  at  medical  center  from  2014  to  2020.  The  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  Insomnia,  Depressive  Disorder,  Anxiety  State,  Attention
Deficit  Disorder  and  Hyper-Activity  Disorder,  and  History  of  Borderline  Personality
Disorder. In the Answer, Applicant admitted that her primary care physician works at the
medical  center  and  provides  refills  of  the  prescriptions  she  has  been  given  by  a
psychiatrist  at  the  center.  She  explained  further  that  she  has  not  sought  psychiatric
treatment or psychological counseling  since  2015  due  to  her psychiatrist’s opinion  that
she has managed her mental health well since 2015 by complying with her medication
treatment. She takes her medications “like clockwork.” She does not currently receive any
counseling, but she would not hesitate to seek counseling if she needed it. She has had
no  inpatient  or  outpatient  hospitalizations  since  March  2016.  Her  last  outpatient  “talk”
therapy was in 2016. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 30-34, 51.)
1.d Opinion of a DoD-selected psychologist. On January 26, 2022, Applicant
submitted  to  a  mental-health  evaluation  by  a  psychologist  working  for  DoD  (DoD
Psychologist). In her evaluation of Applicant, the DoD Psychologist diagnosed her with
Major Depressive Disorder, recurrent episode, in full remission; other specific trauma and
stressor related disorder; and History of Attention Deficit Disorder, combined type. The
psychologist concluded that despite Applicant’s current status of being in remission, her
diagnosis  creates  a  risk  of  impaired  judgment  and  reliability.  She  also  concluded  that
Applicant’s risk of “any future mental health problems is elevated due to these diagnoses
and current presentation.” (GE 2 at 9, 11.)
In   the   Answer,  Applicant  admitted   this  allegation   in  part  but  disagreed   with   the
psychologist’s conclusion.   Applicant’s  primary  care  physician   for   the   past  ten   years
provided a  different opinion in a letter, dated July 8, 2022. She wrote:
[Applicant’s] mental  health  history was tumultuous  for  many  years  with  the
last  bout of psychiatric treatment being  in 2013. She  relates much  of  these
difficulties to  an  abusive relationship with  her father and  to  a  lesser extent,
stressors of a failed marriage and raising a child with Asperger’s.
*
*
*
In  2015,  she  cut  ties  with  her  abusive  father.  Since  then,  she  has  done
exceptionally well to the point that I have managed her medications since
2015  and  she  no  longer  needs  to  see  a  psychiatrist.  She  has  been
completely  stable  with  no  exacerbations.  She  is  medically  compliant  and
comes  in  regularly  for  her  prescriptions.  [Applicant]  has  excelled  in  her
employment with more responsibilities and promotions. Additionally, she is
a single mother and has raised a son, [name deleted], who is now 19.
*
*
*
I  have  no  reservations  in  recommending  her  for  reconsideration  of  her
security clearance.
(AE A.) Applicant has also had a recent mental-health evaluation by a psychologist, who
is a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy Medical Services Corps and holds a Top
Secret clearance (Evaluator). The Evaluator had reviewed the DoD Psychologist’s Report
when he interviewed Applicant. (Tr. at 38-43, 62.)
The Evaluator wrote in his report, dated February 22, 2023:
[Applicant]   appears  to   have   [made]  significant  efforts  in  remediating   her
psychological issues such  as distancing  herself from  her parents,  applying
herself in her career, maintaining  lawful behaviors, and  staying  compliant
with   her  treatment  recommendations   and   medication   regimen.   These
behaviors  and   interventions  have   resulted   in  a   remission   of  many  of  her
previously identified  issues that appear to  have  been  sustained  over several
years. The  diagnoses  below attempt to  capture the  Subject’s current level
of   functioning   as   well  as  acknowledging   her   history  as  it   pertains  to   this
evaluation.
The Evaluator provided the following diagnosis:
DIAGNOSIS:
ADHD, combined type (F90.2)
Persistent depressive disorder, with anxious distress, in full remission (F34.1)
Posttraumatic stress, resolved (F43.10)
Opioid use disorder, moderate, in full remission (F11.20)
Anxiolytic use disorder, severe, in full remission (F13.20)
In his conclusion, he wrote:
The  chaotic  presentation  that  occurred  between  the  years  of  1997  and  2016
would  certainly  have   resulted   in  an   adverse  outcome,  had   she   been
evaluated   then.  However,  since   that  time,  it  appears  that  she   has   made
significant   improvements  across   all   major  areas   of  her  life;  personal,
professional,  and   relational.  As  a   result   of  these   actions,  and   her
compliance  with  medical treatment,  she  appears to  have  mitigated  the  worst
of her symptoms which  would have  prevented  a  favorable recommendation.
There   does   not   appear  to   be   any   current  evidence   of   disqualifying
symptoms   or   behaviors   and   she   has   exhibited  stability   over  the
course   of   at  least  6   years.   She   has  maintained   compliance   with   her
medical  treatment  team   and   does  not  appear  to   have   any  reservations
about utilizing  them  when  complications arise.  Lastly, there does not appear
to   be   any  concerns  from   her  professional  references  about   her  ability  to
perform  in her required  duties. As such, this Evaluator believes  that the
Subject’s   judgement,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness   are   currently
intact.
(AE O at 8 (emphasis added.))
Mitigation
Applicant  has  received  multiple recognitions and  new positions since  starting  to
work for her current employer in 2021. She enjoys a good reputation and has earned a
lot  of  credibility  with  her  superiors  and  co-workers.  She  has  never  experienced  any
discipline  or  received  any  negative  comments  or  concerns  from  her  employer.  Her
performance reviews are highly favorable. (Tr. at 40-42; AE C.)
Applicant works remotely from her home. She manages her stress by exercise and
walking her dog. She likes to ride horses and has earned a black belt in martial arts. (Tr.at
34-35; AEG; AE N.)
