Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  civilian  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional
findings of fact follow.
Background
Applicant married in June 1992 and has three children from this marriage. GE 1)
Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  August  1988.  He  attended  college  classes
between August 2015 and August 2016, but did not earn a a degree or diploma. (GEs 1
and  5;  Tr.  13)  Applicant  enlisted  in  his  state’s  Air  National  Guard  (ANG)  in  February
1989  and  served  21  years  in  his  ANG’s  Inactive  Reserve.  (GE  1)  Following  his
retirement from his state’s ANG in 2010, he continued to work in his Guard unit’s civilian
offices for an additional two years. (GEs 1 and 5; Tr. 13)
Since  October 2015,  Applicant  has been  employed  by  his current  contractor  as  a
crew chief  in the  field of aircraft maintenance. (GEs 1  and  5) Between  March  2014  and
October 2015, he  worked  for a  copper mining  company  as a  diagnostic  mechanic. (GE
1)  He  worked   for  a   volunteer  fire  department  in  his  local  community  between   October
2002  and  January 2015. Contemporaneously, he  operated  his  own small  engine  repair
shop  and  retail equipment dealership  between  May  2012  and  March  2014. (GEs  1  and
5; Tr. 24)  Applicant and  his wife  owned  separate  companies between  2008  and  2011,
and   both     were  dissolved   in  2011.  (Tr.  23)   Applicant  has  held   a   security  clearance
between February  1990 and March 2012. (GE 1; Tr. 22, 32)
Applicant’s  debarment  history
Between   2008   and   2011,  Applicant  was  president  and   owner   of  a   government
subcontractor  for  a   prime   contractor  (A  Company)  of   the   Government.   In   2013,  he
submitted  two  bids  to  the  prime  contractor of the  Government  (A Company): one  from
his company and  another from  his  wife’s wholly-owned  company.  Presumably, he  was
authorized   by   his  wife   to   submit  a   bid  on   behalf  of  her  company.   Following   his
submissions of the  two  bids, he  was investigated  by the  FBI about  his finances. (Tr. 25-
27)  Later   in   2013,   he  was  interviewed   by   the   FBI   again   about his finances,  (GE  5;  Tr.
26-27,  36)
In  January  2018,  Applicant  received  a  debarment  package  following  his  return
from  overseas  civilian  deployment.  (GE  2;  Tr.  30)  In  the  cover  letter,  Applicant  was
notified  by the  Army’s suspension and  debarment official of  the official’s  debarment  of
Applicant and his company (effective January 18, 2018 and continuing until October 19,
2020)  from  conducting  business  with  the  Government  as  representatives  or  agents  of
other  contactors  and  from  acting  as  individual  sureties.  (GE  2)  Applicant’s  debarment
also  served  to  exclude  him  from  non-procurement  transactions  with  the  Government,
such  as  grants,  loans,  loan  guarantees,  subsidies,  insurance,  payments  for  specified
use, and donation agreements. (GEs 2-3)
The  Government’s  debarment  of  Applicant  and  his  company  from  conducting
business for the specified two-year period was based on the recited material facts in the
debarment  official’s  January  2018  debarment  cover  letter  to  Applicant.  (GE  2)
Summarized,  Applicant  and  his  company  were  debarred  for  having  prepared  and
submitted two bids to the Army’s prime contractor as a subcontractor in 2013 (one from
Applicant’s  company  and  another  from  his  wife’s  company)  that  he  knew,  or  should
have known, were not competitive. (GE 2)
By  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  considered,  the  Army’s  debarment  official
found  that  Applicant  submitted  the  two  bids  to  the  Army’s  prime  contractor  to  make  it
appear  as  though  his  awarded  subcontract  was  competitively  awarded.  (GE  2)  Such
actions  of  Applicant  in  the  judgment  of  the  debarment  official  amounted  to  actions
undertaken in restraint of trade, in violation of 15 U.S.C. § 1 that constituted misconduct
warranting debarment pursuant to FAR 9.407-29c). (GE 2)
Based  on  the  Army  debarment  official’s  findings  and  conclusions,  the  official
determined that the debarment of Applicant and his company was in the public interest
and  for  the  Government’s  protection.  (GE  2)  By  his  decision,  Applicant’s  debarment
became  effective  January  18,  2018  and  continued  through  October  19,  2020.  (GE  2)
The  administrative  record  does  not  contain  any  administrative  appeal  of  Applicant’s
debarment  or  actions  taken  by  any  appellate  body  considering  the  issues  raised  in
Applicant’s official debarment.
Further investigations of the anti-competitive bids submitted by Applicant and his
company  to  the  Army  contractor  confirmed  that  the  prime  contractor’s  overseeing
Applicant’s  bids  knew  that  both  estimates  came  from  Applicant  and  provided  false
statements  to  investigators  during  the  course  of  the  combined  Department  of  Justice
(DoJ)  and  DoD  investigation  of  the  submitted  bids  from  Applicant.  (GE  4)  Applicant
never  appealed  the  debarment  decision  issued  by  the  Army’s  debarment  official  in
January 2018. (Tr. 28)
Debarment  employer notifications
By  letter  of  September  23,  2021,  Applicant’s  employer  informed  DOHA  case
investigators  that  its  records  do  not  contain  any  official  communications  regarding
debarment  or  potential  debarment.  (GE  6)  Based  on  Applicant’s  employer’s  records,
Applicant  has  continued  to  work  on  government  contracts  since  the  beginning  of  his
employment  in  September  2017  without  any  noted  breaks  in  servicing  contracts
assigned to him. (GE 6)
Applicant assured he did not know of his debarment until he received a heads-up
telephonic  notice  from  his  wife  in  September  2017  of  the  received  January  18,  2018
notice  of  debarment  from  the  Army’s  debarment  official.  (Tr.  28-29)  Returning  from
civilian deployment in Iraq on behalf of his employer in the January 15, 2018 timeframe,
he reviewed the debarment notice before returning to Iraq in February 2019. (Tr. 29-30)
Upon  receiving and  personally  reviewing  the  debarment notice, Applicant informed  his
site  lead of  the  notice, but never provided  any  notification  to  higher  ranking  officials  in
his employer’s chain of command. (GE 5 and AE C; Tr. 30-32)
Returning to Iraq in February 2019 to continue working his employer’s assigned
duties, Applicant never disclosed his debarment to anyone  in the employer’s hierarchy
beyond his site lead. (GE 5; Tr. 32) And, there is nothing documented in the record to
indicate  his  site  lead  ever  communicated  Applicant’s  debarment  to  officials  in  the
employer’s  hierarchy  responsible  for  handling  debarment  decisions.  (AE  C)  Based  on
Applicant’s testimony and his supporting endorsements from his site leaders, Applicant
is  credited  with  notifying  his  site  leader  of  his  debarment  in  January  2018,  and  with
keeping  his  site  leader  informed  of  ongoing  developments  throughout  his  debarment
process.
In  a  convened  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with  an  investigator  from  the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  January  2019,  Applicant  was  asked
repeatedly  if  there  were  any  issues  arising  out  of  his  actions  with  his  self-employed
company  between  2010  and  2013  that  would  have  led  to  his  debarment  in  January
2018. In each instance, Applicant told the investigator that he had no knowledge of any
issues  could  impact  his  employment.  (GE  5)  In  follow-up  questioning  about  issues
arising from Applicant’s work with the Army’s prime contractor between 2010 and 2013,
Applicant  acknowledged  being  interviewed  by  both  the  FBI  and  IRS  about  the  prime
contractor’s  activities  and  what  his  company  did  for  the  contractor.  (GE  5)  Told  of
investigation  disclosures  of  debarment  actions  taken  against  the  prime  contractor  (A
company), Applicant acknowledged his awareness of the prime contractor’s being under
investigation without offering any further information about the issue. (GE 5) No known
criminal charges were ever filed against Applicant  as the result of his actions that lead
to his DoD debarment.
Considering  all  of  the  facts  and  circumstances  in  the  record,  Applicant
inferentially  was  well  aware  of  his  facing  likely  debarment  actions  from  the  Army  long
before  official  actions  were  taken  against  him  by  the  Army’s  debarment  official  in
January 2018  and failed to disclose his risk exposure to responsible company officials
following  his  employment  in  2017.  By  electing  to  shield  his  knowledge  of  his  culpable
actions he placed his employer at risk of being implicated in  the bidding violations that
ultimately led to his debarment in 2018.
Endorsements
Applicant  is  well  regarded  by  his  former  direct  supervisor  and  site  leads  (both
current  and  former).  (AEs  C-D)  Applicant’s  former  direct  supervisor  averred  that  he
became with Applicant when he and Applicant were co-workers working in a classified
environment  in  Iraq  in  2019.  (AE  D)  From  this  working  experience  with  Applicant,  he
found Applicant to be consistently trustworthy and reliable. Between 2020 and 2021, he
served as Applicant’s direct supervisor and reiterated his confidence in Applicant’s work
ethic and trustworthiness. (AE D) This former supervisor had only limited knowledge of
Applicant’s debarment issues and could offer no comments on the debarment letter that
surfaced as an issue in Applicant’s security clearance review. (AE D)
Applicant’s  site  leads  both  affirmed  their  awareness  of  Applicant’s  security
clearance issues. (AE C) Each assured that Applicant made it very clear to them that he
could not access, view, or be briefed on any classified information while he was subject
to  continuing  debarment  restrictions.  (AE  C)  Applicant  assured  each  of  them  he  was
very  careful  in  ensuring  that  he  maintained  compliance  with  his  imposed  debarment
restrictions. (As C)
Expounding  on  their  assessments  of  Applicant’s  character,  both  site  leads
stressed Applicant’s honesty and composure in high-stress situations. Together, the site
leads (past and present) described Applicant as honest, trustworthy, loyal, dependable,
and stable in their professional relationships with him over  the course of their years of
working together. (AE C)
