Applicant is a 48-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in March 1998 and divorced in August 2010. (GE 1; Tr. 18) He
has two children from this marriage (ages 18 and 22). He remarried in March 2014 and
divorced in October 2016. (GE 1) He earned an associate’s degree in April 2020. (GE 1)
Applicant enlisted in the Army in September 1992 and served three years of active duty.
He  received  an  honorable  discharge  in  September  1995.  (GE  1)  Following  his  Army
discharge  he  enlisted  in  his  state’s  Army  National  Guard  and  served  two  years  in  his
Guard  unit’s  Active  Reserve.  (GE  1)  He  received  an  honorable  discharge  from  his
National Guard unit in November 1997. (GE 1)
Applicant enlisted in the Army in November 1997 and served five years of active
duty before he received an honorable discharge in January 2002. (GE 1) He reenlisted
in  the  Army  in  January  2002  and  served  another  13  years  of  active  duty  before  he
retired as a chief warrant officer with an honorable discharge in December 2015. (GE 1;
Tr.  19) Since December 2015,  Applicant  has  been  employed by  his current  contractor
as  a  safety  engineer. (GE  1;  Tr.  18)  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  February
2014. (GE 1)
Applicant’s  reported sexual encounters  with  women he met on dating sites
Following his divorce from his first wife in 2010,  Applicant dated for a couple of
years before deciding that dating did not work for him. (Tr. 20) Turning to dating sites to
find  women  with  reconcilable  backgrounds  and  companionable  interests,  he  made  it
clear initially that he was not looking to pay for sex. (Tr. 20) For him, the dating site he
later chose in 2016 was good for him. (Tr. 20) He made his last contact with this dating
site “sometime in 2021.”  (Tr. 21) To be fair, Applicant began accessing dating sites as
far back as 2005, well before his 2010 divorce. (Tr. 28)
Between  2005  and  2017,  Applicant  accessed  dating  websites  where  he  met
numerous  women,  some  of  whom  he  engaged  in  sexual  relations  with  and  provided
money or other items of value. (GEs 2-8; Tr. 23-25, 27-28) His various encounters with
the  women  he  met  on  dating  websites  are  covered  in  his  personal  subject  interview
(PSI) of December 2018 and various investigation reports spanning 2014 through 2020.
(GEs 2-8) Asked how many women he met over the four-year period he used the most
recent  website,  Applicant  estimated  10  to  14;  some  (“six  or  seven”)  he  saw  on  more
than one occasion. (Tr. 21-24) To use his most recent dating site cost him $90 to $100
a month. (Tr. 21-22)
When meeting women for the first time on his chosen dating website, typically he
would ask  them  some initial questions about their interests  before asking them out  for
face-to-face meetings. In these personal meetings (mostly in restaurants), he would ask
them about their interests and needs. (Tr. 22) If they indicated any interest in straight-up
prostitution  he  terminated  the  meetings.  (Tr.  22)  Money  requested  by  women  he  met
and established sexual relationships with (six to seven he estimated) varied in amounts
and was honored by Applicant: sometimes before he had sexual relations with them and
sometimes afterwards. (Tr. 26)
In  February  2011,  Applicant  met  a  woman  (a  Russian  citizen  at  the  time)  on  a
dating  website.  (GEs  2  and  4;  Tr.  16,  29-31)  After  stopping  at  his  house  to  bag
groceries  before  proceeding  to  dinner,  he  escorted  her  upstairs  where  he  engaged  in
sexual relations with her. (GEs 2-3) Throughout his brief  relationship  with this woman,
she asked him repeatedly for help with her green card that was about to expire. (GE 2)
Applicant  consistently  insisted  that  his  sexual  encounter  with  the  woman  was
consensual.  (Tr. 30)  After having  one more conversation  with  this woman  (six months
later), he never saw or heard from her again. (Tr. 30-31)
Three years later (in 2014) the woman he met on a website with a visa issue filed
a  claim  with  the  federal  agency  who  employed  her,  claiming  Applicant  engaged  in
nonconsensual  sex  with  her  in  his  home  after  making  contact  with  her  on  a  dating
website.  (GEs  2-3)  After  conducting  a  thorough  investigation  of  the  reported  incident,
the  agency  dismissed  charges  for  cited  insufficient  evidence.  (GE  3;  Tr.  30-31)
Applicant continues to insist his sexual encounter with this woman was consensual, and
there is no evidence in the record to corroborate either account.
Records document numerous encounters between Applicant and women he met
through  dating  websites  between  September  2018  and  December  2020.  (GEs  2-8)  In
his exchanges with the women he met on these websites, he sometimes provided them
money or other items of value in exchange for sexual relations. Applicant assured that
he never made money or other items of value a condition of his having sexual relations
with the women he met on the websites. (GE 2; Tr. 26)
In  December  2019,  a  woman  that  Applicant  met  on  an  online  dating  site  later
filed  a  report  with  law  enforcement  authorities  claiming  he  engaged  in  nonconsensual
sex with her and verbally threatened her while showing her his gun magazines. (GE 5)
Applicant insisted that his sexual encounter with this woman was consensual. (GE 2; Tr
32).  After  engaging  in  brief  sexual  relations  with  the  woman,  Applicant  asked  her  to
spend  the  night  with  him,  to  which  she  declined.  (GE  7)  Before  the  woman  departed,
she asked Applicant for the $500 he promised  her when they met. When he declined,
the woman called the police and accused him of rape. (GEs 5-7; Tr. 33-34)
When  police  later  arrived  at  Applicant’s  apartment  to  investigate  the  woman’s
complaint,  they  asked  him  if  he  knew  a  certain  woman,  and  whether  that  woman  had
been  to his apartment.  When  he acknowledged one  (identifying her by  her first name)
had been there, police handcuffed him and escorted him to jail. (GEs 5 and 7) Once in
jail,  police  informed  him  that  the  woman  who  visited  him  in  his  apartment  alleged  he
sexually  assaulted  and  imprisoned  her.  Based  on  her  complaints,  the  police  formally
arrested him and charged him with kidnapping and assault. (GEs 5 and 7; Tr. 35-36)
After spending six days in jail on the kidnapping and assault charges against him,
Applicant  posted  bond  and  was  released  pending  trial  with  a  court  date  set  in
December  2020.  (GEs  5  and  7)  Court  records  document  that  the  charges  lodged
against Applicant for kidnapping and assault were dismissed without prejudice.  (GE 5;
Tr. 36-37)
The  final  report  of  the  filed  charges  against  Applicant  and  court-entered
disposition  furnished  to  Applicant’s  employer  in  February  2020  detailed  Applicant’s
personal  account  of  the  December  2019  incident.  (GE  6)  His  account  of  the  incident
summarized the facts known to him and the dismissal of the charged in February 2020.
(GE 5)
In November 2020, a woman who reportedly met Applicant on a dating website in
November  2017,  self-reported  to  police  that  Applicant  had  engaged  in  nonconsensual
sex with her while she was incapacitated from too much alcohol consumption. (GE 5) In
the  police  narrative  of  the  incident,  they  wrote  in  their  report  that  the  complainant  told
police investigators that Applicant plied her with alcohol in his apartment before forcing
himself upon her and engaging in nonconsensual sex. (GE 8) Asked about the incident
at  hearing,  Applicant  offered  no  recollection  of  the  woman  or  the  incident.  (Tr  43)
Investigation  records  confirm  that  investigation  of  the  incident  is  ongoing  with  no
estimations of when the investigation will be completed, or if any charges are expected.
(GE 8)
When  asked  at  hearing  how  he  could  distinguish  prostitution  from  his  use  of
dating sites to exchange money for sex, Applicant explained that he was always looking
for establishing relationships in his exchanges  with the women he met on dating sites,
and was never seeking short-term sexual exchanges for money. (Tr. 45-46) Applicant’s
explanations  are  not  fully  consistent  with  his  exhibited  cited  pattern  of  conduct  in  the
cited cases. In these cited cases, Applicant manifested through his reported actions his
prioritizing  sexual  gratification  with  the  women  he  met  on  the  dating  websites  without
trying  to  become  acquainted  with  them  or  understand  and  respect  their  personal
histories and needs.
Based  on  the  evidence  developed  from  the  materials  in  evidence  (even  in  the
absence of convictions or charges in some cases), Applicant’s reported multiple actions
over a lengthy period  of time, when considered together as a pattern of conduct, create
an  evidenced-based  profile  of  a  person  seeking  sexual  encounters  with  women
previously  unknown  to  him  in  exchange  for  money  or  other  items  of  value.  Whatever
relationships  Applicant  claimed  to  be  seeking  from  these  women  he  met  were  never
demonstrated to be more than short-term ones.
To  be  sure,  there  is  irony  in  Applicant’s  historical  reliance  on  the  use  of  dating
sites to meet women in the pursuit of meaningful relationships. Printouts from the dating
website  that  Applicant  accessed  to  meet  women  includes  questions  to  complete  to
facilitate  match-making  arrangements  between  applicants  with  reconcilable  interests
and backgrounds. (GEs 9-10) Key words used to interest potential users of the site are
“sugar daddy” and “sugar baby.” (GE 9)
For those  accessing  the  site  in  search of  beneficial relationships,  the  dating  site
asks, inter alia, for photos  and  background  information  about the  access users.  (GE  9-
10)  While  there is nothing  in the  dating  site  to  accentuate  the   availability of short-term
sexual encounters, the  site did not  foreclose  site  users like  Applicant from  accessing  the
site  for the  principal purpose  of finding  women  who  could  satisfy  his short-term  sexual
needs.
