In Applicant’s March 2022 SOR response, he admitted all of the debts (SOR ¶¶
1.a-1.j) and provided some attached documentation. (AE A and B) The SOR alleges ten
delinquent accounts, of which nine are delinquent federal student loans. The combined
total of the ten delinquent debts was $40,036. His admissions are accepted as findings
of fact.
Applicant is 52 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2015. Since July
2020, he has been employed by a federal contractor. He married in November 1997. In
2015, Applicant and his wife adopted a boy with special needs from China. He is currently
10 years old. Applicant’s annual salary is approximately $69,000, and his wife stays home
taking care of their son. He has occasionally picked up extra income by delivering food to
people for a food transportation service. (Tr. 14-15, 23, 32; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
Applicant testified that beginning in 2015, he and his spouse began to experience
financial problems after traveling to China to adopt their son. He was underemployed at
the  time,  with  an  annual  income  of  about  $40,000,  and  his  wife,  who  had  previously
worked earning an annual income of about $40,000,  stayed home to take care of their
son. Although the church provided the couple  financial grants to pay for their adoption
expenses,  the  loss of his wife’s income  caused  them to experience  financial hardship.
They  accumulated  several  debts  he  was  unable  to  pay.  His  son  also  required  various
medical services, and these expenses were mostly out-of-pocket. Applicant has medical
insurance  through  his employer, but  his  contributions  to  the  medical providers  are  still
very expensive. They do not receive any  financial assistance  from the  state or federal
government for the care of their disabled son. (Tr. 16-17; 26-30)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  car  loan  creditor  for  an  account
referred for collection in the amount of $10,465. Applicant testified at the hearing that after
adopting  his  son,  he  was  faced  with  the  dilemma  of  either  providing  for  his  family  or
keeping the car he purchased in 2012. He was financially unable to take care of his family
and pay for his car too. He made the decision to have the care repossessed in 2015. The
car  was  resold,  and  the  outstanding  amount  was  the  deficiency  balance  he  owed  the
creditor. He made an attempt to set up a payment plan, but the creditor told him that he
had to pay the amount in full. (Tr. 15-18)
In  approximately  2020,  Applicant  started  working  with  a  consumer  debt  relief
program to assist him in repaying his delinquent creditors. He was able to resolve several
medical bills, a utility bill, and two credit card accounts. His car loan creditor in SOR ¶ 1.a
was not included the program because he received notice of a class action lawsuit that
was  filed  in  2016  against  the  car  loan  creditor.  In  his  March  2022  SOR  response,  he
stated that this creditor would no longer seek to collect on this account and any reference
of this account was removed from his credit report as a result of the lawsuit. He attached
a notice of the class action settlement. The paperwork disclosed that the creditor “will no
longer seek to collect a portion of any deficiency balance.” It also stated that the creditor
will  delete  trade-line  information  from  the  three  nationwide  consumer  reporting
companies. This debt is no longer collectible. (SOR response; AE A; Tr. 19-20)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b, through 1.j allege nine student loans referred to the Department of
Education (DoED) for collection in the total amount of $29,571. Applicant testified that his
student  loans  were  deferred  after  his  May  2015  graduation,  but  after  the  deferment
expired, he was unable to make payments and his loans went into default. In his March
2022  SOR  response,  he  stated  that  he  had  applied  to  the  DoED  loan  rehabilitation
program. Once his loans were rehabilitated, he would have his loans consolidated. He
provided  documentation  from  DoED  dated  March  18,  2022.  The  letter  provided  basic
information about which loans would be eligible for consolidation, and if the applicant was
approved, the new lender would take the loans out of default status. He also provided
documentation dated March 18, 2022, of his monthly income and expenses, to determine
whether  he  was  eligible  for  the  student  loan  rehabilitation  program.  (Tr.  21-22;  SOR
response; AE B)
On  March  27,  2020,  the  Coronavirus  Aid,  Relief,  and  Economic  Security  Act
(CARES Act) became law, providing for relief measures on DoED owned federal student
loans  through  September  30,  2020.  This  student  loan  debt  relief  received  several
extensions. In March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the President directed
the  DoED  to  place  federal  student  loans  in  forbearance.  The  federal  government
repeatedly extended the student loan payment pause. The pause includes the following
relief measures for eligible loans: a suspension of loan payments; a 0% interest rate; and
stopped  collections  on  defaulted  loans.  See  Federal  Student  Aid  (FSA)  website,
https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19/.  (HE  2)  On  February  25,  2023,
the FSA website said:
The  student loan  payment pause  is extended  until the  U.S.  Department of
Education is permitted  to implement the  debt relief program or the litigation
is resolved. Payments  will  restart 60  days later. If  the  debt relief program
has not been  implemented  and  the  litigation  has not been  resolved  by June
30,   2023   —   payments  will  resume   60   days  after  that.  We   will   notify
borrowers before payments restart.
In August 2022, President Biden announced forgiveness of $10,000 or $20,000 of
federal student loan debt, and on November 11, 2022, the DoED said they would continue
to seek forgiveness of student loans. See “Statement from Secretary of Education Miguel
Cardona on District Court Ruling on the Biden-Harris Administration Student Debt Relief
Program,”
https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/statement-secretary-education-
miguel-cardona-district-court-ruling-biden-harris-administration-student-debt-relief-
program. (HE 3)
During  the  hearing  Applicant  stated  he  had  been  accepted  into  the  loan
rehabilitation  program,  but  then  he  decided  against  it.  He  said  due  to  the  CARES  Act
once  again  delaying  loan  payments,  he  decided  to  take  advantage  of  not  making  any
payments until July 2023. (Tr. 22- 23, 25)
Applicant  files  all  of  his  income  tax  returns  timely  and  he  does  not  owe  any
delinquent taxes. He brings home a paycheck every two weeks in the amount of $915.
He  estimated  that  his  student  loan  payments  would  be  around  $220  a  month.  He  is
currently  unable  to  pay  that  amount  with  his  income.  After  his  loans  come  out  of
deferment,  he  stated  he  would  be  willing  to  work  a  second  job  in  order  to  pay  on  his
student loans. (Tr. 24, 30-37)
