Applicant is a 39-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He served on active
duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  2002  until  he  was  discharged  with  a  bad  conduct
discharge  in  2017.  He  has  worked  for  defense  contractors  since  2017.  He  has  an
associate degree earned in 2017. He is single with four children. (GE 3-5, 9)
Applicant  was  an  E-7  in  2014  when  he  committed  the  offenses  that  resulted  in
multiple  charges  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ).  The  charges,  for
violations of Article 90 (disobey lawful order of commissioned officer); four specifications
of  Article  92  (fail  to  obey  general  order:  fraternization);  Article  107  (false  official
statement);  and  three  specifications  of  Article  128  (two  specifications  of  assault  by
battery, and one specification of aggravated assault), were referred to a general court-
martial. (GE 3-5, 9, 10)
In  2015,  pursuant  to  a  pretrial  agreement,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  all  of  the
charges  and  specifications,  except  the  aggravated  assault  specification,  to  which  he
pleaded  not  guilty.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  the  two  assault  specifications  by  unlawfully
touching the victim. He was sentenced to reduction to E-1, confinement for six months,
and  a  bad  conduct  discharge.  His  pretrial  agreement  limited  his  confinement  to  120
days and his reduction to E-4. (GE 3-5, 9)
Applicant  described  the  offenses  during  his  background  interview  and  in  his
response  to  the  SOR.  He  admitted  to  having  inappropriate  relations  with  four  junior
servicemembers. He described the assaults:
I got in an  argument with  a  [servicemember]  I was seeing  at  the  time  and
she   grabbed   my  truck   keys  and   would   not  give  them   back  so   I  grabbed
her by the  wrist and  opened  her  hand  to  get  them  so  I  could  leave  and  it
bruised   her  wrist.  Another  time   [we   were]  having   consensual  sex   and   I
grabbed  her a  bit too  hard and rough  and I left bruises  on  her that way.
Applicant  admitted  that  he  lied  during  the  investigation  into  the  charges,  stating,  “[t]he
only  reason  I  lied  was  because  I  was  so  scared  of  what  might  happen  to  me  and  my
[military] career.” He stated that the Article 90 occurred because his commanding officer
“was messing with [his] platoon and wanted them to do unsafe acts and [Applicant] told
him no in a not so respectful manner.”  That is an inaccurate description of the charge.
The charge was actually a violation of an order for Applicant to have no contact with one
of the servicemembers involved in the fraternization. (GE 3, 9, 10)
Applicant  was  unemployed  for  about  18  months  after  his  court-martial.  He  was
likely  on  unpaid  appellate  leave  after  his  release  from  confinement  until  his  discharge
was approved in 2017. (GE 4, 5)
The SOR alleges 11 delinquent debts with balances totaling about $35,500. The
debts are established through Applicant’s admissions and credit reports. (GE 3, 5-8)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege debts of $11,943 and $6,093 to a collection company
on behalf of a financial  institution that  specializes  to  loans to military  servicemembers.
SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  a  debt  of  $6,041  to  the  same  financial  institution.  When  he  was
interviewed  for  his  background  investigation,  Applicant  stated  that  the  military  was
responsible  for  the  $11,943  debt.  He  did  not  explain  why  the  military  would prosecute
him and discharge him with a bad conduct discharge and then turn around and pay his
personal loan. (GE 3, 5-8)
to
the  SOR
Applicant  stated
in  his  response
that  he  made  payment
arrangements  with  the  collection  company  for  the  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  debts  to  pay
$210  per  month  to  resolve  both  debts.  He  documented  that  he  entered  a  payment
arrangement with the collection company in March 2022 to resolve the $6,093 debt by
an initial payment of $93, followed by 23 monthly payments of $60. He did not provide
proof  of  any  payments,  and  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation  about  the  $11,943
debt.  He  stated  that  he  attempted  multiple  calls  to  the  financial  institution  to  make
payment  arrangements  for  the  $6,041  debt  (SOR  ¶  1.e),  but  the  creditor  had  not
returned  his  calls.  He stated  that  he  would  continue  his  attempts  to  reach  the  creditor
and resolve the debt. (GE 3, 5-8)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  a  delinquent  debt  of  $5,014  for  a  military  exchange  credit
card.  When  he  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation,  Applicant  incorrectly
stated that he thought the debt was for a military travel credit card, and the debt should
have been erased or forgiven because it was incurred while he was in  the military. He
wrote in his response to the SOR that his wages are being garnished $100 per month
until the debt is resolved. He did not submit any supporting documentation. (GE 3, 5-8)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges a delinquent debt of $1,786 to a collection company on behalf
of  a  financial  institution  that  specializes  to  loans  to  military  servicemembers  (different
collection  company  and  different  financial  institution  than  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,
and  1.e).  When  he  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation,  Applicant
incorrectly stated that he thought the debt was for a military travel credit card, and the
debt should have been erased or forgiven because it was incurred while he was in  the
military.  He  documented  that  he  entered  a  payment  arrangement  with  the  collection
company  in  March  2022  to  resolve  the  $1,786  debt  by  an  initial  payment  of  $50,
followed  by  17  recurring  payments  of  $50,  and  a  final  payment  of  $36  in  September
2023. He did not provide proof of any payments. (GE 3, 5-8)
Applicant admitted owing the $1,289 delinquent debt to an appliance store (SOR
¶  1.e).  He  stated  that  he  made  arrangements  with  the  creditor  to  pay  $50  per  month
until the debt is resolved. He submitted a loan statement from the creditor dated March
16, 2022, but no evidence of any recent payments. (GE 3, 5-8)
Applicant stated that he was current on the $456 delinquent debt to a bank (SOR
¶  1.f).  He  stated  the  spending  limit  was  $300,  and  he  had  been  making  on-time
payments  to  the  bank.  He  did  not  submit  any  supporting  documentation.  The  debt  is
listed  as delinquent with a  $456 balance on credit  reports from April 2020,  September
2021, and May 2022. (GE 3, 5-8)
Applicant  admitted  owing  the  $291  delinquent  debt  to  a  bank  (SOR  ¶  1.g).  He
documented  that  he  entered  a  payment  arrangement  with  the  bank  in  March  2022  to
resolve  the  debt  by  monthly  payments  of  $25.  He  did  not  provide  proof  of  any
payments. (GE 3, 5-8)
SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.j allege medical debts of $1,444 and $941. SOR ¶ 1.k alleges a
$292 debt to an insurance company. The debts are listed on the April 2020 credit report,
but  not  the  later credit reports.  Applicant  stated  that he  attempted multiple  calls  to  the
agencies collecting the debts to make payment arrangements, but the agencies did not
return  his  calls.  He  stated  that  he  would  continue  his  attempts  to  reach  the  agencies
and resolve the debts. (GE 3, 5-8)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
February  2020.  He  reported his general court-martial conviction.  He  answered  “No”  to
all of the financial questions under Section 26, which included the following:
In the  last  seven  (7) years, [have]  you  had  bills or debts  turned  over to  a
collection   agency?   (Include   financial  obligations  for  which   you   were  the
sole debtor, as well  as those for which you were a cosigner or guarantor)
In the  last seven (7) years, [have  you]  been  over 120  days delinquent on
any  debt  not  previously  entered?   (Include   financial  obligations  for  which
you  were  the  sole debtor, as well as  those  for which  you  were  a  cosigner
or guarantor)
[Are  you]   currently  over  120   days   delinquent  on   any   debt?   (Include
financial obligations for which  you  were  the  sole debtor, as  well as those
for which you were a cosigner or guarantor)1
Applicant stated that he did not intend to lie on the SF 86. He stated that he had
not kept up to date on his finances, and he did not know where to look or how to find the
information. (GE 3)
Applicant  expressed  remorse  for  his  conduct  in  the  military.  He  stated  that  he
made stupid choices when he was younger, and he has to live with them every day. He
stated that he is growing more and more, and he is just trying to make a better life for
him and his family. (GE 3)
