In  Applicant’s  February  2022  SOR  response,  he  denied  all  three  of  the  alleged
delinquent federal student loans. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c) He did not provide an explanation for
his denial or submit supporting documentation. The combined total of the delinquent loans
was  $55,832.  The  2020  and  2022  credit  reports  in  the  record  support  the  financial
allegations. (SOR response; GE 4, GE 5)
Applicant  is  31  years  old.  He  has  never  married,  and  he  does  not  have  any
children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2012 and a master’s degree in 2015. He was
continuously  employed  by  other  companies  and  federal  contractors  from  2016  to
September 2022, except for a six-month period of unemployment in 2017. Since October
2022, he has been employed full time by a different federal contractor with a significant
increase in his annual income. His job title is senior consultant, and his annual salary is
approximately $100,000. He requires a security clearance to perform specific duties for
his employer. (Tr. 8, 17-24, 36; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
In January 2020, Applicant completed a SCA, but under the financial section, he
did not disclose his delinquent federal student loans. In March 2021, he participated in a
background interview with an authorized DOD investigator, and he was confronted about
his delinquent loans. Applicant stated that his loan forbearance had expired, but he had
not yet started to repay his loans because he was focusing on repaying other delinquent
accounts.  Once  he  had  repaid  his  other  accounts,  he  would  then  begin  paying  on  his
student loans. (GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant  completed  interrogatories  in  October  2021.  He  listed  that  he  had
arranged a payment plan for his delinquent student loans. He also listed that his loans
were  deferred  under  the  Coronavirus  Aid,  Relief,  and  Economic  Security  Act  (CARES
Act), and  he  would start paying  on  his student loans  when  they  came  out of deferment.
(GE 3; Tr. 31-32)
On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act became law, providing for relief measures on
Department of  Education  (DoED) owned federal student  loans  through  September 30,
2020. This student loan debt relief received several extensions. In March 2020, as a result
of  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  the  President  directed  the  DoED  to  place  federal  student
loans  in  forbearance.  The  federal  government  repeatedly  extended  the  student  loan
payment  pause.  The  pause  includes  the  following  relief  measures  for  eligible  loans:  a
suspension of loan payments; a 0% interest rate; and stopped collections on defaulted
loans.  See  Federal  Student  Aid  (FSA)  website,  https://studentaid.gov/announcements-
events/covid-19/. (HE 2) On February 25, 2023, the FSA website said:
The  student loan  payment pause  is extended  until the  U.S.  Department of
Education is permitted  to implement the  debt relief program or the litigation
is resolved. Payments  will  restart 60  days later. If  the  debt relief program
has not been  implemented  and  the  litigation  has not been  resolved  by June
30,   2023   —   payments  will   resume   60   days  after  that.  We   will   notify
borrowers before payments restart.
In August 2022, President Biden announced forgiveness of $10,000 or $20,000 of
federal student loan debt, and on November 11, 2022, the DoED said they would continue
to seek forgiveness of student loans. See “Statement from Secretary of Education Miguel
Cardona on District Court Ruling on the Biden-Harris Administration Student Debt Relief
Program,”
https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/statement-secretary-education-
miguel-cardona-district-court-ruling-biden-harris-administration-student-debt-relief-
program. (HE 4)
Applicant testified at the hearing that he had received a basketball scholarship for
his  undergraduate  education,  and  it  paid  for his  college  tuition.  He  applied  for  student
loans to fund his education for a master’s degree.  After graduating in 2015, he had his
student  loans  placed  into  forbearance  in  about  2016,  when  his  student  loans  became
due. He was aware that he would have to reapply for forbearance again when the term
expired, however, he could not recall if the term was one or two years. Despite knowing
that the forbearance would expire in one or two years, he testified he had assumed the
loans were still in forbearance because he had never received any notification from the
student loan creditor that the forbearance term had ended. (emphasis added) He realized
he needed to pay on his student loans at some point in time, but he just had not made it
a priority. (Tr. 18-19, 22, 25-27, 29; SOR response)
Applicant provided inconsistent statements. He told the DOD investigator in March
2021 that he was aware his student loans were no longer in forbearance. He also testified,
after  further  questioning  by  Department  Counsel,  that  he  thought  his  student  loan
forbearance  term  would  expire  in  about  2018.  He  then admitted  he  had  looked  up  his
student  loans  online  and  realized  they  were  outstanding.  He  needed  to  start  loan
payments, but he just did not have enough income at the time to make the loan payments.
He  never  initiated   contact  with   the   student  loan   creditor   to   request  another  loan
forbearance, loan deferment, consolidation, or loan rehabilitation.  (Tr. 29-30)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c allege Applicant is indebted to the DoED for three student
loans  referred  for  collection  in  the  total  amount  of  $55,832.  The  2020  and  2022  credit
reports  showed  that  the  three  loans  were  opened  between  2013  and  2014.  Applicant
testified at the hearing that he called DoED two weeks before the hearing and he applied
for the Fresh Start program. This program assists student loan borrowers in getting their
student loans out of default. (Tr. 27-32; GE 4, GE 5)
During   the   hearing,  I  requested   Applicant  fill   out  a   personal  financial  statement
(PFS), which  I sent  to him  after the hearing  concluded.  The  completed  PFS showed  that
his  monthly  net  remainder,  after  paying   his  monthly  expenses,  is  approximately
$3,616.15. This amount did not include payments to his student loan creditor. (AE B)
After the hearing, Applicant provided a document from DoED dated March 3, 2023.
The letter stated that DoED had received Applicant’s February 23, 2023 request to enroll
into the Fresh Start program. In about 15 days after this letter, his student loans would be
transferred to another loan creditor. The new loan creditor would then contact Applicant
and provide him with an online account and the amount of his monthly payments. At the
time the record closed, Applicant had not yet been contacted by the new loan creditor or
notified of the specific amount of his monthly loan payments. (AE C)
Applicant also submitted a screen shot of personal budgeting classes an individual
could purchase and complete online. The  screen shot did not show that Applicant had
enrolled  into  the  program  or  that  he  had  successfully  completed  the  financial  classes.
This evidence is insufficient to support his claim that he completed financial counseling.
(AE D)
