Under Guideline B, the SOR alleged that Applicant’s parents (SOR 1.a) and two
brothers (SOR 1.b) are citizens and residents of Iraq. It also alleged that his sister is a
citizen and resident of Iraq who is employed by the Iraqi government (SOR 1.c). It was
further alleged that Applicant’s father-in-law is a citizen and resident of Iraq (SOR 1.d);
that  Applicant’s  two  children  are  citizens  of  Iraq  (SOR  1.e);  and  that  Applicant  owns
residential property in Iraq (SOR 1.f). (FORM, Item 1)
In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted with explanations and comment all of
the SOR allegations. (FORM, Item 2) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s
admissions, and based on my review of the information presented in the FORM, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked since July 2021. He was born and raised in Iraq, where he completed his college
education  in  June  2004.  He  and  his  wife,  who  also  was  born  and  raised  in  Iraq,  were
married in July 2006. They have two children, ages 15 and 10. Applicant, his wife, and
their children are naturalized U.S. citizens. They have lived together in the United States
since immigrating from Iraq in 2014. SOR 1.e alleges that his children are Iraqi citizens.
(FORM, Item 3; RTF)
Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in July 2020. In his e-QIP, he did not
provide naturalization information about his wife and children. In response to the FORM,
he  provided  copies of their U.S. passports that  were  issued  in August  and  September
2020,  respectively.  The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  children  are  Iraqi  citizens,
something he acknowledged may still be the case; however, it also is clear that they and
their  parents  are  U.S.  citizens  who  have  been  living  together  and  continuously  in  the
United States for over eight years. SOR 1.e is resolved for Applicant. (FORM, Items 3
and 4; RTF)
Between  April  2007  and  November  2014,  Applicant  worked  for  an  Iraqi  bank.
Starting in 2008, he was vetted for work at the bank’s branch inside the U.S. Embassy in
Baghdad’s Green  Zone.  Applicant disclosed in his e-QIP that he was investigated and
approved for access to the embassy. He also provided copies of U.S. government-issued
identification cards he used for access to the Green Zone and the embassy itself. In June
2011, the embassy’s Senior Financial Management Officer provided a memorandum in
which he roundly praised Applicant’s work as a point of contact between his staff and the
Iraqi  bank  in  the  conduct  of  essential  financial  transactions  and  in  working  with  Iraqi
vendors  in  support  of  U.S.  military  requirements  in  Iraq.  Applicant  left  his  embassy
position  (it  appears  he  remained  with  the  bank  until  2014)  that  same  month  after  the
contract  between  the  bank  and  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  was  modified.  When
Applicant left the embassy, the U.S. Ambassador to Iraq presented him with a certificate
of appreciation for his dedication to and support of the U.S. mission in Iraq. (FORM, Item
3; RTF)
Applicant  immigrated to  the  United States on  what  Department Counsel termed
“an unspecified visa” and “received Government financial support for refugees.” (FORM
at 2-3.) In response to the FORM, Applicant stated that he “came to the U.S. through the
IOM program due to my job as a contractor with the U.S. government.” (RTF) The IOM
program
for  Migration
(https://mena.iom.int/iraq), a non-governmental organization (NGO) whose mission is to
assist persons who must relocate after being displaced by conflict. It is likely that Applicant
received  assistance  from  this  NGO  or  from  the  U.S.  government  in  expediting  his
immigration to the United States.
International  Organization
to  which  he  referred
the
is
After  he  arrived  in  the  United  States,  and  after  a  three-month  period  of
unemployment, Applicant started working in the computer and information technology (IT)
industry. From February 2015 to the present, he has been steadily employed in such jobs.
In addition to his full-time jobs, between May 2015 and February 2019, he supplemented
his income by working part-time in ridesharing jobs. In 2016, Applicant bought the house
in  the  Unites  States  where  he  and  his  family  still  live.  All  of  his  personal,  community,
professional,  and  financial  interests  are  in  the  neighborhood  where  he  is  raising  his
children. (FORM, Items 2 - 4; RTF)
Applicant’s parents,  two  brothers, a  sister, and  his father-in-law reside  in Iraq  as
Iraqi  citizens.  His  father  is  a   retired   government  employee,  and   his  mother  has  never
worked  outside  the  home.  Applicant speaks with  them  as often  as daily. His sister is an
employee  of  an  Iraqi  government agency. He speaks with  her monthly or in person  during
visits  to   see   his   parents  (Applicant   has   traveled   to   Iraq   in  2016   and   2021).    Applicant
averred   that  his  sister’s  work  does  not  relate   to   any  military,  security,   intelligence,  or
foreign  relations interests by the  Iraqi government.  Applicant’s brothers and  his father-in-
law,  who   is  a   physician,  have   no   apparent   connection   to   the   Iraqi  government.   One
brother  works for a  trade  association,  the  other a  car dealer.  The  record does  not reflect
what level of contact  Applicant has with  his brothers or with  his father-in-law, either directly
or through  his wife.  Applicant  averred  that none  of  his  relatives  in  Iraq  know  that he  is
applying  for a  security clearance. They only know that he  works in the  IT field.  (FORM,
Items 2  –  4; RTF)
Prior to  his departure  from  Iraq  in  2014, Applicant started  building  a  new house  for
his family; however,  it was not completed  until  2017. Applicant’s parents moved  into  the
house   because   theirs  had   been   demolished,   and   they  needed   a   place   to   live   pending
completion of construction  of a new house. Applicant’s parents and  his brothers now live
in the  house. Applicant  wants to  bring  his parents to  live  in the  U.S. with  him. To  that end,
his house  in  Iraq  is now on  the  market. Applicant does  not receive rent for the  house  and
there is no indication in this record about its value.  (FORM, Items 2  –  4; RTF)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline at  issue, I have taken administrative  notice of certain  facts  regarding Iraq as
presented  in  HX  1.  Iraq  is  a  constitutional  republic,  and  its  most  recent  parliamentary
elections in 2021 were assessed by European Union and United Nations observers to be
free  and  fair.  Nonetheless,  as  to  Iraq  in  general,  concerns  remain  over  the  continued
inability of that freely-elected government to quell the violence and instability that persist
in some parts of that country. These conditions are  fueled and perpetrated by  terrorist
groups  affiliated  with  Al-Qaeda  and  ISIS,  as  well  as  by  Sunni  insurgents  and  Iranian-
backed Shiite militias. As a result, some parts of Iraq, mainly in areas south of Baghdad,
such  as  Basrah,  remain  wholly  unstable.  Even  the  city  of  Baghdad  is  still  subject  to
random acts of terrorist violence. U.S. citizens and interests in Iraq remain at high risk for
kidnapping  and  terrorist  violence.  The  U.S.  State  Department  has  advised  against  all
individual travel to Iraq. The ability of the U.S. Embassy to provide consular services at
the U.S. consulate in Basrah is extremely limited given the security environment, while
the U.S. embassy in the IKR capital of Erbil remains open. While ISIS insurgent groups
remain active in Iraq, their control over large swaths of Iraq has been diminished by U.S.
and coalition efforts. Such groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces and civilians.
Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies
throughout  Iraq.  U.S.  Government  and  western  interests  remain  possible  targets  for
attacks.
Additionally,  there  are  significant  human-rights  problems  in  Iraq.  Widespread
corruption, as well as abuses by Iraqi security forces in response to acts of violence by
terrorists and others, have undermined confidence in the Iraqi central government and its
judiciary. Human-rights violations by Iraqi law enforcement are not uncommon and are
not  being  addressed  when  identified.  Those  include  killing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting
civilians, as well as inhumane conditions in detention and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest
and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits on freedom of expression,
freedom of the press, censorship of  religion, limits on peaceful assembly, and societal
abuses of women. The various terrorist and militia organizations are also responsible for
significant human rights abuses in Iraq.
