Applicant  admitted  the  three  SOR  allegations  contained  in  SOR  Paragraph  1,
without further elaboration or explanation. (Item 3) Her admissions are incorporated into
these findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. She is unmarried and has no children. She earned a high
school diploma in June 2010 and has taken some community college courses. She has
no record of military or federal civil service, and has never held a security clearance. She
is sponsored to seek national security eligibility in connection with possibly obtaining a
position at a professional services Government contracting company. (Items 2, 4.)
Applicant completed her Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing
(e-QIP) on January 21, 2022. In response to questions in Section 23 regarding illegal use
of  drugs  or  drug  activity,  she  disclosed
illegally  used
THC/marijuana/cannabis from January 2010 to January 2021, at which point she obtained
a  Medical  Cannabis  Card  from  her  state  and  continued  “legally”  using  it  until  January
2022. She further declared that she intended to continue using the drug in the future, and
tended to use it only when she had trouble sleeping or eating. (Item 4.)
that  she  had
On April 26, 2022, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator for the Office of
Personnel  Management  (OPM).  She  confirmed  the  accuracy  of  her  e-QIP  statements
concerning drug use, and added that she had been spending about $150 per month on
marijuana or THC vaping products until January 2022, and smoking several times each
week. She said that she stopped purchasing and using medical marijuana at that point
since she was unsure how it would affect her pending job application and national security
eligibility.  She  said  she  had  purchased  marijuana  from  licensed  dispensaries  after
obtaining her Card in January 2021, and illegally obtained it from friends, acquaintances,
or off the street before that. Once she started buying medical marijuana, her association
and contact with many of those acquaintances became less frequent. (Item 5.)
Applicant  also  said  that  her  present  employer  is  aware  of  her  use  of  medical
marijuana since she tested positive on a February 2021 random drug test. She expressed
to  the  OPM  investigator  that  she  would  like  to  go  back  to  using  medical  marijuana
because  it  benefits  her  health  greatly,  but  she  would  also  like  to  secure  her  pending
employment with the Federal contractor. She said that if the employer prohibits medical
marijuana use even with her state-issued Card, then she would not be engaged with it
any longer and would have to find alternatives to assist with her health concerns.  (Item
5.)
The record contains no evidence concerning Applicant’s recent job performance,
trustworthiness,  character  in  a  professional  setting,  or  track  record  with  respect  to
handling sensitive information and observation of job-related security procedures. There
is  no  indication  that  she  was  ever  evaluated  for,  or  diagnosed  with,  a  substance  use
disorder, or participated in a treatment program. I was unable to evaluate her credibility,
demeanor, or character in person, since she elected to have her case decided without a
hearing.
