Applicant admitted all of the allegations contained in the SOR. His admissions are
incorporated into the findings of fact below.
Applicant is 42 years old. He married in 2011, and he has three children, ages 10,
8 and 5. He was born in Nigeria, and he immigrated to the United States in 2009, at the
age of 28. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2014, and his wife recently became a
naturalized U.S. citizen too. He does not consider himself to be a dual citizen of Nigeria
and  the  U.S.  because  he  renounced  his  Nigerian  citizenship  after  he  became  a  U.S.
citizen.  He  traveled  to  Nigeria  one  time  in  2018.  He  has  been  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since April 2015 as a database administrator. This is his first application for a
DOD security clearance. (Tr. 16-18; GE 1)
Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges that Applicant allowed multiple business entities and individuals
to  deposit  over  $500,000  into  his  U.S.  bank  account(s),  between  February  2015  and
September 2016. He did this at the request of his nephew, a dual citizen of Nigeria and
Norway (also referenced by Applicant as his “cousin” because they are about the same
age.) His nephew requested that Applicant transfer over $500,000 from his bank accounts
to his nephew and to persons unknown to Applicant, and to business entities in Nigeria.
(SOR ¶ 1.a.) Applicant admitted this allegation. (SOR response; Tr. 20-29, 62-65; GE 2)
During  Applicant’s  background  interview in  July 2019,  he  was  confronted by  an
authorized  DOD  investigator  about  his  unusual  financial  activities.  Applicant  explained
that  his  nephew  and  his  half-brother  told  Applicant  the  money  deposited  into  his  U.S.
bank accounts was going to be used to build renovations to the palace in his Nigerian
hometown. His nephew owned the construction company, and he would be managing the
construction work on the palace. His nephew wanted to deposit money into Applicant’s
bank  accounts  and  then  transfer  the  money  to  Nigeria  in  order  to  get  a  better  foreign
exchange rate. Applicant gave his nephew his personal financial bank account numbers
and  routing  numbers,  which  were  then  used  by  various  unknown  individuals  and/or
business entities. When Applicant’s bank accounts were closed by the U.S. banks due to
this disconcerting activity, Applicant questioned his nephew and asked him to be honest
about the money transfers. His nephew admitted that he had lied and there was never a
plan to renovate the palace; the money transfers were all for the purpose of buying and
selling money and exchanging foreign currency for profit. Applicant later learned that his
nephew  set  up  a  Nigerian  company,  not  for  the  purpose  of  construction,  but  for  the
business of buying and selling foreign currency. (SOR response; TR. 20-38, 62-65; SOR
response)
…my nephew sent the  money to  me  because  he’s going  to  get a  better rate,
transfer rate.  You know, the  exchange rate just in dollar. If you  get  dollar in
Nigeria, you  get a  better exchange  rate  compared  to  when  you  send  a  Great
Britain pound  to  Nigeria. So, the  better rate, the  dollars.  That was the  reason
why he  transferred  it  through  me  to  send  to  Nigeria, I thought at that time.
(Tr. 29)
Applicant admitted during cross examination that he does not have a license as a
foreign currency trader. He did not make any profit or charge an exchange fee for allowing
his  nephew  and  others  to  use  his  U.S.  bank  accounts.  Some  of  the  individuals  who
deposited  money  into  his  bank  accounts  were  from  multiple  states  in  the  U.S.  He
discovered  that  his  nephew  was  buying  the  dollars  from  a  third  party  who  knew  the
depositors.  Applicant  never  considered  that  his  nephew  was  engaged  in  any  form  of
criminal  activity  or  money  laundering.  In  about  September  2016,  Applicant  and  his
nephew had to respond to inquiries by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission
(EFCC) during the investigation of these financial transactions. This Nigerian commission
is charged with the responsibility of investigation and enforcement of all economic and
financial crimes laws in Nigeria. Applicant has not received any additional communication
from  the  EFCC.  He  had  completely  forgotten  about  this  information  during  his  first
background interview. (Tr. 29-38, 64; SOR response; GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.b  alleges  that on  January 26,  2018,  Applicant  allowed  an  unknown person
to  deposit a  total of $10,000  in two  separate  transactions into  his bank account the  same
day.  In   his  SOR  response,  Applicant   admitted   he   had   transferred   this  money   at  the
request of his nephew   into   his nephew’s  foreign   entity  created   for   the   sole   purpose  of
exchanging   currency  for  profit.   At  the   hearing,  Applicant  stated   that  his  mother  had
passed  away in 2009.  In  2018, he  and  his family decided  to  create  a  memorial for his
mother. Applicant had  the  money deposited  into  his bank account  from  unknown sources,
and   then   he  transferred  the   money   to  pay   for his mother’s memorial.  Applicant  did not
provide  corroborating  documentation  to  support his later inconsistent statement. (Tr. 38-
41; SOR Response; GE 2)
Foreign Influence
Under Guideline B, SOR ¶ 2.a repeated the allegation as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a,
but  this  allegation  also  alleged  that  in  February  2018,  Applicant  loaned  his  nephew
approximately $1,551. Applicant previously addressed the first part of this allegation, cited
above.
Applicant testified that after discovering his nephew had lied to him about raising
money to renovate the palace and ultimately using his bank accounts for making a profit
on the currency exchange rate, Applicant received a request from his nephew to loan him
some money  by  transferring  $1,500  into  his nephew’s  ex-spouse’s  bank  account.  She
was a resident of the U.S. Applicant did this because his nephew did not have money at
the time, and his nephew’s ex-spouse needed money to care for a sick child. (SOR ¶ 2.d)
(Tr. 41-44; SOR response)
SOR  ¶¶  2.b  and  2.c  allege  that  in  2016  Applicant  transferred  (an  unspecified
amount of) money to one business entity, and he transferred $74,000 to another business
entity, both located in Nigeria. Applicant testified that one of these entities is a gas station
owned  by  his  nephew.  I  assumed  the  other  entity  is  the  false  construction  entity  his
nephew  used  for  the  exchange  of  foreign  currency.  SOR  ¶  2.e  alleged  that  Applicant
maintains a bank account in Nigeria. At the hearing  Applicant estimated that he had a
total of $75 in this bank account. He disclosed this information on his security clearance
application (SCA). (Tr. 44-45; GE 2; SOR response)
SOR ¶ 2.g alleges that Applicant has three sisters, two brothers, and a stepbrother
who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Nigeria.  SOR  ¶  2.h  alleges  that  Applicant  has  a
stepbrother  who  resides  elsewhere.  Applicant  admitted  the  information  at  the  hearing,
and he also stated that he has a total of six half-brothers. His father had three wives, so
basically, they are his half-brothers instead of stepbrothers, as alleged in the SOR and
likewise listed on his SCA. After his father passed away in late December 2022, Applicant
claimed  he  has not  spoken  with  any of his family members.  One  sister works as  a  mid-
wife, and he  was not certain if his other two  sisters were  employed. One  brother sells food
provisions,   another  brother   is  a   farmer,  and   his  oldest  half-brother   is  a   professor   at   a
university in South  Africa.  He has occasionally sent money to  these  family members at
their  request.  The  last time he provided  money occurred  in  February 2022  when  he  sent
$125   to   help  pay  for  a   family  member’s   hospital  bill.   None   of  his   family  members  are
associated  with  the  Nigerian  military or government.  (Tr. 47-59,  64-66; GE  1, GE  2; SOR
response)
SOR  ¶  2.i  alleges  Applicant  has  two  friends  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Nigeria. He testified that he occasionally receives texts from these friends, but not on a
regular basis. They both sent their condolences to Applicant after his father passed away
in  December  2022.  He  does  not  believe  his  friends  are  associated  with  the  Nigerian
military or government. (Tr. 54-59; GE 2; SOR response)
Foreign Preference
The SOR also alleges Guideline C security concerns based on Applicant’s banking
transactions,  as  set  forth  in  subparagraph  1.a,  above,  were  conducted  to  finance  the
renovation  of  a  palace  in  his  hometown  in  Nigeria.  (SOR  ¶  3.a)  In  Applicant’s  SOR
response  he  admitted  this  information  but  denied  he  had  personally  contributed  any
money for the renovation of the palace. (SOR response)
