Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  married  with  two  children.  He  has  an  associate
degree.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  and  seeks  to  obtain  national
security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment. This is his
first application for national security eligibility. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A,
and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.  Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline.
financially  overextended  and
is
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  seven  debts  that  were  charged-off,  or  in
collection,  in  the  total  amount  of  approximately  $54,468.  (SOR  1.a  through  1.g.)  The
existence  and  amount  of  these  debts  is  supported  by  his  admissions  to  all  SOR
allegations in his Answer. The debts are also confirmed by credit reports submitted by the
Government  dated  August  18,  2020;  March  30,  2021;  and  July  6,  2022.  (Government
Exhibits 7, 8, and 9.) The existence of the debts is also supported by Applicant’s answers
on  Section  26  of  his  e-QIP  (Government  Exhibit  1)  and  during  an  interview  with  an
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management on August 28, 2020. (Government
Exhibit 2.)
Applicant stated that he was unable to pay these debts, most of which date to the
2016/2017-time  frame,  “due  to  unstable  jobs  and  also  being  a  full-time  student  and
helping my mother who fell ill in 2019.” Applicant admitted he made a conscious decision
to not pay these debts in order to take care of his mother and his family. (Government
Exhibit 1 at Section 26; Applicant Exhibit D; Tr. 52-53.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a.  Applicant admitted owing $22,481 for a motorcycle that he surrendered to the
lender shortly before the hearing. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this
debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt. (Tr. 36-38.) This debt
is not resolved.
1.b.  Applicant admitted owing $14,365 for an automobile loan that was charged
off. The vehicle was involved in a one-car accident and was totaled. Applicant has not
made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments
on this debt. (Tr. 38-40.) This debt is not resolved.
1.c.   Applicant  admitted  owing  $7,850  for  a  water  purification  system  that  was
installed in a house Applicant owns, which is occupied by his in-laws. The in-laws agreed
to  pay  for  the  system  but  failed  to  do  so  and  Applicant  is  responsible  for  the  debt.
Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to
make any payments on this debt. (Tr. 40-42.) This debt is not resolved.
1.d.  Applicant admitted owing $5,474 for an automobile loan that was charged off.
This vehicle was also involved in a one-car accident and was totaled. Applicant has not
made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments
on this debt. (Tr. 42-43.) This debt is not resolved.
1.e. Applicant admitted owing $2,344 to a furniture company for a charged-off debt.
Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to
make any payments on this debt. (Tr. 43-45.) This debt is not resolved.
1.f.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  charged-off  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of
$1,263. Applicant has not made any  recent payments on this debt and has no current
plans to make any payments on this debt. (Tr. 45.) This debt is not resolved.
1.g. Applicant admitted owing a cable company a past-due debt in the amount of
$691 for equipment that was not turned in. Applicant has not made any recent payments
on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt. (Tr. 45-47.)
This debt is not resolved.
Applicant testified that his current financial situation is stable. He is able to pay his
normal  monthly  expenses.  Applicant  realized  his  finances  can  affect  his  security
worthiness but has not yet taken the initiative to determine how he can reduce or pay off
his past-due indebtedness. (Tr. 52-55.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment,  unreliability,
dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  or  regulations.  Applicant  admitted
allegations 2.a, 2.d, 2.e, and 2.f under this paragraph. He denied allegations 2.b and 2.c.
2.a.  Applicant  admitted  he  left  Company  A’s  employment  in  May  2019.  He  was
working  for  a  temporary  personnel  company  (TPC)  at  that  time,  not  for  Company  A.
Applicant stated he had to miss a shift because he did not have a babysitter for his child
and had to stay home. The TPC called Applicant and told him his services were no longer
required. There is no allegation of misconduct, or evidence that Applicant is ineligible for
rehire, in the record. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Government Exhibit 2 at 2;
Government Exhibit 4; Tr. 22-23.)
2.b. Applicant denied that he was fired from Company B in about April 2019 for not
being in camera view for 30 minutes at his assigned security guard post. He stated that
he was talking to his lead during this period of time. Shortly after talking to his lead he
was told to go home. The TPC that he actually worked for called and told him his services
were no longer required. There is no allegation of misconduct, or evidence that Applicant
is ineligible for rehire, in the record. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Government
Exhibit 2 at 3; Tr. 23-25.)
2.c. Applicant denied that he was fired from employment with Company C in about
July 2018 due to his alleged involvement in an attempted robbery.
Applicant’s employer at that time accused Applicant in a written statement to the
Office of Personnel Management of participating in an attempted robbery at his place of
employment. The employer stated that there was video evidence of Applicant’s conduct
on the night in question, but the police “were not able to gather enough evidence to charge
[Applicant].” (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant denied involvement in any attempted robbery. He did admit not properly
locking a door, and that allowed a person to enter the establishment and engage in a fight
with Applicant’s employer. (Tr. 25-29.)
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  a  person  who  knows  both  Applicant  and  his
employer at Company C. She worked with the employer in the past as his accountant.
The letter reads in part, “I can state with first-hand knowledge that [employer] has perjured
himself in his letter [Government Exhibit 3] to  you  regarding  [Applicant].” After giving  a
totally  different  version  of  the  events  in  question  that  closely  matches  Applicant’s
testimony she stated, “[Employer] suffers from untreated mental disorders and should not
be  utilized  as  a  resource  for a  personal or  professional  reference. His  reference  letter
regarding [Applicant] is pure nonsense.” (Applicant Exhibit B.)
Applicant also submitted an email from a detective of the police department that
investigated  the  alleged  crime.  The  detective’s  email  stated,  “In  reviewing  the  robbery
investigation  from  July  2018,  [Applicant]  is  a  witness  to  the  crime  and  not  a  suspect.”
(Applicant Exhibit E.)
2.d.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  charged  in  March  2017  for state  Vehicle  Code
violations   including   Driving   on   a   Suspended   or  Revoked   Driver’s  License,  Driving   in
Excess of 100  Miles per Hour, and  not complying  with  Child  Safety  Belt Requirements.
He entered  a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for the  first two  offenses, was found  guilty,  and
sentenced  to 36  months summary probation  and a fine.  Applicant  served two days  in jail
in  lieu   of   the   fine.  (Government  Exhibit  1   at  Section   22;  Government  Exhibit  2   at  5;
Government Exhibit 5  at 1-3; Government Exhibit 6; Tr. 29-30.)
2.e. Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  in May 2017  for state  Vehicle  Code
violations including Driving on a Suspended or Revoked Driver’s License and Driving in
Excess of 65  Miles per  Hour. He entered a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for the  first offense,
was found  guilty,  and  sentenced  to  36  months summary probation  and  a  fine.  Applicant
served  two  days  in jail  in  lieu  of  the  fine. (Government Exhibit  1  at  Section  22;  Government
Exhibit 2 at 5; Government Exhibit 5 at 4-6; Government Exhibit 6; Tr. 30-31.)
2.f. Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  in  September 2017  for state  Vehicle
Code  violations  including  Driving  on  a  Suspended  or  Revoked  Driver’s  License  and
Driving  in Excess of  65  Miles per Hour.  He  entered  a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for  the  first
offense, was found  guilty,  and  sentenced  to  36  months summary probation  and  a  fine.
Applicant served  five  days in jail in lieu  of the  fine. (Government Exhibit 1  at Section  22;
Government Exhibit 2  at 5-6;  Government Exhibit 5  at 7-9; Government Exhibit 6; Tr. 31-
32.)
Applicant  stated  that  after  the  incident  in  allegation  2.f  he  changed  his  driving
habits. He testified, “I needed to start being a better person for my kids and stop driving
like  a  maniac.” He has completed  all his probation  requirements, has  a current driver’s
license, and has had no subsequent incidents. (Tr. 31-34.)
Mitigation
Applicant has progressed  far in the  last  several years. At the  time  of most of these
incidents  he  was  working  as a  security guard  or had  other temporary  employment.  He did
not have  a  high  school diploma. He received  his GED in 2018  and  immediately began
attending  a  local college. He  obtained  an  associate  of  science  degree  in  December 2020
and  is still  attending  school to  obtain  his bachelor’s degree. (Applicant Exhibit A;  Tr. 21-
22.)
Applicant Exhibit B includes a recommendation for Applicant as well as information
on allegation 2.c. The letter writer stated, “I have known [Applicant] for over 10 years and
I know that  his  work ethic and  determination  would be  an  asset  to  any organization  that
employs him. I have  seen  him  go  on  to  seek  a  higher  education  while  providing  for his
family with  the utmost  determination.”
