Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  was  born  in
Saudi  Arabia  to  Pakistani  nationals.  Applicant  has  been  employed  with  the  defense
contractor since March 2019. He is married to an American citizen and has no children.
(GX 1 at pages 5, 14 and 28~29.)  Applicant came to the United States in about 2014,
and obtained a Master’s Degree from an American university. (TR at page 15 line 7 to
page 17 line 3.)
Guideline B - Foreign Influence
1.a.  Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  His
mother’s family lives in the United States, and she “has a Green Card.” She has “always
been a housewife.”  Applicant’s father has an open visa for entry to the United States.
He’s  a  retired 75-year-old  “Human  Resources  Manager.”  He worked  for a  government
agency  for  about  “two  years  before  he  retired.  Before  that,  Applicant’s  father  was  a
banker, and before that he worked for “a construction company.” (TR at page 17 line 6
to page 19 line 11.)
1.b. Applicant’s “much older” brother is a citizen and resident of Pakistan. He is a
Lieutenant Colonel in the Infantry. Their contact is limited to about once a year. (TR at
page 19 line 20 to page 20 line 23, and Answer at pages 6~7.)
1.c.   Applicant  has  two  other  brothers  and  one  sister  who  are  citizens  and
residents of Pakistan. One brother “works in real-estate,” and the other is unemployed.
His sister “is a homemaker.”  TR at page 20 line 24 to page 22 line 21.)  Applicant has
little contact with his brothers. (Answer.)
1.d.  Applicant  has  two  sisters  who  are  citizens  of  Pakistan  but  reside  in  Abu
Dhabi. They are both schoolteachers.  (TR at page 22 line 22 to 23 line 13.) Applicant
has little contact with his sisters. (Answer at page 7.)
1.e.~1.g.  In  an  “abundance  of  caution,”  Applicant  listed  six  cousins  on  his
security  clearance  application  (e-QIP), who  are  all  citizens  of  Pakistan,  but  two  reside
outside of Pakistan, one in the United Arab Emirates, and the other in Qatar. Applicant
has little or no contact with his cousins.  (TR at page  25 line 9 to page 35 line 20, and
Answer at pages 7~8.)
Notice
I take administrative notice of the following facts regarding Pakistan: Pakistan is
an Islamic Republic. The Department of State has assessed parts of the country to be
MEDIUM  or  HIGH-threat  locations.  During  2021,  there  was  a  lack  of  government
accountability, and abuses, including corruption, that often went unpunished, fostering a
culture of impunity among perpetrators, whether official or unofficial.
