In his Answer to the original SOR, Applicant admitted the Guideline B allegations
at SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.d and denied SOR ¶ 1.e, all with explanations. He denied all of the
Guideline  F  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a  - 2.n,  all  with  explanations.  I  construe  his
statements in FORM Response 2, to include denials of the amended allegations at SOR
¶¶ 1.e and 2.a. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  43  years  old.  He  married  his  first  wife  in  2002.  They  separated  in
2014  and  divorced  in  September  2019.  (AE  A)  He  has  a  son  and  a  daughter,  both
teenagers, with his first wife. (Item 3) He states several times that he and his first wife
had  a  difficult  relationship.  He  asserts  that  she  was  addicted  to  drugs,  that  he  had  a
restraining order against her, and that she impacted his finances negatively during their
separation. Applicant remarried in October 2019. His two children live with him and his
second wife. He currently works at an overseas location. (Items 2, 3; FORM Responses
1 and 2)
Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in April 2022. (FORM Responses 1 and 2)
Between 1997 and 2014, he served in the Marine Corps on active duty, and in reserve
status  in  the  Air  National  Guard.  He  retired  from  the  Marine  Corps  in  2014  and  was
discharged  honorably. (Item 3) After leaving the military in September 2014, Applicant
worked for several years in a variety of jobs in the defense industry, both in the United
States  and  overseas.  (Item  3;  FORM  Response  1)  He  resigned  from  his  job  with  a
defense contractor at a naval air station in the western United States in February 2023.
(FORM Response).
As  noted  in  the  procedural  history  of  this  case,  above,  Applicant  has  now
relocated to the Persian Gulf, where he has taken a job outside the defense industry, a
job for which he needs neither access to classified nor sensitive information. Since this
case  was  remanded  by  the  Appeal Board  for a  new decision, however, DOHA  retains
jurisdiction  over  the  case  even  if  Applicant  is  no  longer  sponsored  for  classified  or
sensitive access, as also discussed above.
Few details about Applicant’s current employment situation are known. He does
not identify his employer, except to say that “I work overseas representing US interests.”
(FORM Response 2). He provided no details of his income or salary, or other terms of
his new employment.
Guideline B
The  foreign  influence  allegations  under  Guideline  B  concern  Applicant’s
connections to Tunisia through his wife and her family.
Applicant’s wife is a Tunisian citizen. (SOR ¶ 1.a) At the time he submitted his e-
QIP  (October  2019)  she  was  applying  for  a  U.S.  immigrant  visa.  (Item  3  at  30)  More
recently,  Applicant  indicates  in  FORM  Response  2  that  she  is  a  legal  permanent
resident  of  the  United  States,  and  she  now  qualifies  for  expedited  citizenship  through
his  status  as  a  spouse  regularly  employed  abroad.  She  has  relocated  to  the  United
States,  and  he  says  she  will  join  him  in  his  overseas  location  once  she  obtains  U.S.
citizenship  in  an  estimated  6-12  months.  (FORM  Response  2)  He  noted  in  FORM
Response 1 that his wife operated a physical therapy clinic in Tunisia until 2016.
Applicant  asserts  that  his  wife’s  loyalty  to  Tunisia  extends  only  to  food  and
sports.  She  loves  America  and  the  American  way  of  life  and  embodies  the  sacred
national values of “life, liberty and the pursuit of freedom.” She is willing to renounce her
Tunisian  citizenship  once  she  obtains  U.S.  citizenship.  Applicant  himself  has  no
allegiance  or  loyalty  to  Tunisia  except  for  his  wife’s  family,  who  are  “would-be
Americans” born with the wrong passports. He asserts, essentially, that Tunisia is not a
security concern because it is a small country that does not often make world news and
will never be able to recover economically from its historical status as a French colony.
He notes that the murder rate in Tunisia is less than in the U.S., and much less than in
Mexico  (where  he  says,  “no  one  is  denied  a  clearance  for having  close  ties.”)  (FORM
Responses 1 and 2; Answer) (This last statement is not necessarily true, but since the
consideration  of  Applicant’s  eligibility  here  is  not  a  comparative  exercise,  it  is  also  not
something that needs to be addressed further.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law and  father-in-law are citizens  and  residents of  Tunisia.
(SOR ¶  1.b) He  disclosed  them  both  on  his e-QIP  and  noted  that  he  and  his mother-in-
law do  not  speak the  same  language, so  communication  was through  his  wife. (Item  3
at  37)  He   and   his  mother-in-law  later  had   a   falling   out,   and   he   says  they   no   longer
communicate.   (Answer)   He  said  his   father-in-law   is  a   “decent   guy,”   but  they  do   not
understand   each   other,  so   communication   is  difficult.   (Answer)  He   provides  no
indication  in the FORM Responses  about any more recent  interactions.
Applicant’s sister-in-law is a citizen and resident of Tunisia. (SOR ¶ 1.c) He says
in his Answer that they met twice on vacations to Tunisia a number of years ago, and
that  “[I]  don’t  much  care  for  her.”  (Answer)  He  provides  no  indication  in  the  FORM
Responses about more recent interactions.
Applicant’s brother-in-law is a  Tunisian  citizen, allegedly  living  in  Kuwait. (SOR ¶
1.d)  On  his e-QIP,  Applicant reported that his brother-in-law lived  there and worked for a
commercial  airliner.   He   said   they   were   friends.   (Item   3  at  39-40)  In   his  Answer,
Applicant  said   his  brother-in-law  had   relocated   to   the   United   States.  Applicant   let  his
brother-in-law  live   with   him   (and   his  wife)   but  asked   him   to   move   out  for  being   a
“freeloader.”  The  brother-in-law chose  to  remain in the  United  States rather than  return
to   Tunisia,   where   he   says  job   opportunities   are   few.   Applicant  does  little   more   than
exchange   “pleasantries”   with   him.   (Answer)   He  provides   no   indication   in   the   FORM
Responses  about more  recent interactions.
In  SOR  ¶  1.e,  the  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  sends  $500  a  month  to
support  his  mother-in-law  in  Tunisia.  As  amended,  SOR  ¶  1.e  now  includes  the
allegation  that  this  money  is  “to  pay  your  wife’s  expenses  so  that  the  Tunisian
government  does  not  take  legal  action  against  her  or  her  parents.”  This  is  based  on
Applicant’s Answer, in which he explained that the money concerns a car loan that his
wife took out in Tunisia before they met, as well as “back taxes”  on her failed physical
therapy business that she closed in 2016. (Answer) He explained further that he made
the  payments  on  his  wife’s  behalf  essentially  to  avoid  legal  trouble  that  might  result  if
they did not pay the debt. He asserted in  FORM Response 1 that he would no  longer
send  money  to  Tunisia  since  it  suggested  a  security  concern.  (FORM  Response  1)
Applicant reaffirmed in FORM Response to that his wife no longer has  debt in Tunisia
and that he no longer sends money there. (FORM Response 2)
Applicant gives no indication in FORM Response 2 of any recent travel to Tunisia
by either himself or his wife. He asserts that if he were the subject of coercion or threats
by his Tunisian family (or, one presumes, someone else), he would “break contact and
alert authorities.” He took the job overseas to provide for his family. He loves his country
and  is  proud  of  his  Marine  Corps  service.  He  loves  God,  his  mother  and  family,  and
American values, and would never betray the country. (FORM Response 2)
Guideline F
The  financial  portion  of  the  SOR  concerns  13  delinquent  debts,  initially  totaling
about  $65,000  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.m),  plus  a  wage  garnishment  (SOR  ¶  2.n).  Applicant
denied  all  of  the  debts  in  the  original  SOR,  with  brief  explanations.  (Items  1,  2)  He
provided some documents with his two FORM Responses, to be addressed below.
The existence of the SOR debts is established by the credit reports in the record,
from January 2020 (Item 5) and December 2021. (Item 4) The Government included a
current  credit  report,  from  February  2023,  with  FORM  2.  (Item  7)  The  specific  SOR
debts are addressed below.
SOR ¶ 2.a is a debt that has been charged off by auto financing creditor C. The
Government amended the amount owed from $46,000 to $29,100. (FORM Response 2)
The account is listed as charged off (for $29,186) in October 2014 on the January 2020
credit  report.  (Item  5  at  8)  Applicant  denied  the  debt,  asserting  that  it  was  the
responsibility of his former wife through their divorce settlement. (Item 2)
On  his  2019,  e-QIP,  Applicant  disclosed  two  repossessed  autos,  both  financed
by creditor C. One was his car, a 2014 leased German auto. It was repossessed after
the separation because he could not afford to support two households. Another was his
ex-wife’s 2014 sport utility vehicle (SUV) that was in his name but which was assigned
to her in the divorce. (Item 3 at 64-65)
AE  A  is  a  “Property  Order  Attachment  to  Judgment”  relating  to  Applicant’s
divorce.  It  notes  that  he  and  his  first  wife  married  in  May  2002  and  separated  in
February 2014. AE A references a sport utility vehicle (SUV), the debt for which is fully
assigned  to  the  respondent  (his  ex-wife).  The  “Judgment”  to  which  AE  A  refers  as  an
“Attachment” is likely the Judgment of Divorce (from 2019), but it is not included in the
record here. No other related documents are included. It is not entirely clear that this is
the same debt referenced in the SOR, but it is likely so, since Applicant’s other 2014 car
was a leased vehicle.
SOR  ¶  2.b  ($1,961)  is  a  debt  owed  to  an  unidentified  medical  creditor,  a  debt
listed as past due as of January 2020. The date of last activity is June 2014, and it was
assigned  to  collections  in  August  2015.  (Item  5)  Applicant  denied  the  debt,  asserting
that no member of his family had incurred a $1,900 medical debt.
SOR  ¶¶  2.g  ($322)  and  2.j  ($160)  are  medical  accounts  placed  for  collection.
(Item 5) The (same) collection agency is identified, but in each case the medical creditor
is  not.  Applicant  asserted  that  his  ex-wife  had  incurred  the  debts  in  his  name,  without
his  knowledge  or  approval  after  they  divorced,  in  violation  of  an  order  relating  to  the
divorce settlement.
SOR  ¶  2.c  ($1,635)  is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  military  retailer  or
creditor.  It  was  assigned  in  May  2011  and  reported  for  collection  in  December  2019
(Item 5) Applicant asserts in his answer that he paid it in full in May 2021, though this is
not documented. It is not listed on his most recent CBR. (Item 7)
SOR ¶ 2.d ($931) is an  account placed for collection by an apartment complex,
probably  for  unpaid  rent  or  other  related  fees.  It  was  placed  for  collection  in  January
2020.  (Item  5)  Applicant  asserted  in  his  Answer  that  he  disputed  the  debt  and  said  it
was removed from his credit report. It is not listed on later CBRs.
SOR  ¶  2.e  ($550)  is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  cable  or  internet
company. (Items 4, 5) Applicant asserted in his Answer that he disputed the debt, and it
was removed from his credit report. It is not listed on his most recent CBR. (Item 7)
SOR ¶  2.f ($484)  is an  account  placed  for collection  by  a  phone  company. (Item
5) Applicant asserted  in  his Answer that he  disputed  the  debt,  and  it was  removed  from
his credit report.  It is not listed on  his most recent CBR.  (Item  7)
SOR ¶  2.h  ($241) is an  account  placed  for  collection  by a  cable company. (Item
5)  Applicant   denied   the   debt,   and   said  he   had   never  heard   of  the   company.  It   is  not
listed on  his most recent CBR.  (Item  7)
SOR ¶ 2.i ($191) is an account placed for collection in 2019 by a school district.
(Item  5)  Applicant  asserted  that  this debt  is his  ex-wife’s  responsibility,  as  it  relates  to
school  supplies  for  their  children,  supplies  that  she  lost.  It  is  not  listed  on  his  most
recent CBR. (Item 7)
SOR ¶  2.k ($117) is an  account  placed  for collection  by a  phone  company.  (Item
5)  Applicant   denied   this  debt,   asserting   that  he   has   never  had   an   account   with   this
phone  company.  It is not listed on  his most recent CBR.  (Item  7)
SOR ¶ 2.l ($7,000) concerns delinquent federal income taxes for tax years (TY)
2017  and  2018.  Applicant  denied  owing  any  past-due  federal  taxes  for  TY  2018.  He
acknowledged  in  his  Answer  that  his  2017  federal  income  tax  return  remained  unfiled
because his ex-wife “won’t  disclose  her earnings  in  the hopes of getting me in trouble
with the IRS.” (Item 2)
Applicant disclosed  on his 2019  e-QIP  that he had failed  to file  his  2017  state  and
federal  tax  returns, and  he  reported  that  he  owed  about  $7,000  or $8,000  combined. He
asserted  that he was  having  issues with  his ex-wife  (they were still  married  in  TY 2017)
because  she “was  refusing  to  let me  claim  both  of my kids”  as dependents.  He said he
worked  in  a  tax-free  zone  at  the  time  and  did  not expect to  have  to  pay taxes.  He  filed
his  taxes  and   began   a   payment   plan   of  about  $1,000   a   month   for  eight  months   to
resolve  the  debt.  He  also  said  he  had  gained  full custody of his children. (Item  3  at  61-
63)
In  FORM  Response  1,  Applicant  says  “I  still  owe  back  taxes  for  2017  but  I’m
waiting  for  a  total  and  a  settlement  agreement.”  He  has  hired  a  “tax  defense”  firm  to
assist him. He says again that he worked in a tax-free zone in the Persian Gulf region
during  all  of  2017  as  a  defense  contractor.  He  asserts  ignorance  with  the  process  of
fixing  this  problem,  which  is  why he  sought professional  assistance.  He  notes  that  his
wages are no longer being garnished. (FORM Response 1; AE B, AE C)
With  FORM  Response  2,  Applicant  provides  a  May  2021  letter  from  the  U.S.
Treasury Department. It appears to concern a payment  made (or owed) by the IRS to
Applicant and his wife on May 19, 2021. It is probably a tax refund. The amount of the
payment is $4,360. The letter also says that “we applied your payment to debt that you
owe to the following agency . . .” The “agency” listed is a military exchange service. The
debt owed is unclear, but $2,014 (of Applicant’s tax payment, or refund) was applied to
it, as a “Non-Tax Federal Debt.” (AE D) (This “Non-Tax Federal Debt” is not discussed
elsewhere  in  the  record,  and  it  is  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.).  Further,  AE  D  does  not
indicate that any portion of the $4,360 payment was redirected to pay any other federal
debt, such as past-due taxes from a prior tax year (such as 2017 or 2018, as alleged).
Applicant  also  attached  to  FORM  Response  2  a  screen  shot  to  show  a  $3,065
refund on his 2022 federal taxes. (AE E) A subsequent deposit into his bank account is
not reflected.
SOR ¶ 2.m ($5,500) concerns delinquent state income taxes for the same years.
Applicant denied owing state income taxes to his home state, both in his Answer and in
FORM  Response  1.  He  says  he  was  mistaken  about  owing  state  income  taxes.  The
support for the $5,500 figure alleged in SOR ¶ 2.m is not clearly established. Applicant
disclosed  owing  state  and  federal  taxes  on  his  e-QIP  of  a  combined  total  of  about
$7,000 or $8,000. (Item 3) He now asserts that he does not owe anything to the state.
While it is possible that he owes state taxes for 2017 (since his federal return is unfiled)
this is not clearly established.
Further,  with  FORM  Response  2,  Applicant  provided  a  screenshot  from  his
phone  reflecting  that  a  2022  state  tax  refund  of  $1,435,  had  been  deposited  into  his
bank  account.  From  this,  it  can  be  inferred  that  he  does  not  owe  (or  no  longer  owes)
any  past-due  state  tax  debt,  since  if  he  did,  the  refund  would  have  been  captured  to
address it. (AE F)
SOR  ¶  2.n  alleges  that  Applicant’s  wages  at  his  employer,  company  A,  at  the
naval air station “were garnished in about November 2019, in the approximate amount
of  $600,  bi-weekly.  As  of  the  date  of  this  Statement  of  Reasons,  the  garnishment  has
not been completed.” (Item 1) The creditor related to the garnishment is not identified in
the  record.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  denies  SOR  ¶  2.n,  noting  that  “I  neither  work  for
[company A] nor have any wages garnished.”  (Item 2) AE B and AE C are Applicant’s
paystubs from a subsequent employer, Company P, from April 8, 2022 and March 2021,
respectively.  No  garnishment  is  indicated.  This  allegation  is  not  established  in  the
record evidence before me, and even if so, the garnishment is resolved.
Applicant’s  most  recent  credit  report  in  the  record  is  from  late  February  2023.
(Item 7) It shows one credit account that has been charged off in the amount of $1,168.
The account was opened in May 2021, last payment in September 2021, and reported
in February 2023. (Item 7 at 4) Another account was charged off for $679 in February
2023. (Item 7 at 5) The other 10 accounts listed are all in “pays as agreed” status. (Item
7)
In FORM Response 2, Applicant addresses the question, “Can you explain your
debt  and  unpaid  taxes?”  He  was  employed  from  2019  to  2022,  but  also  attending
school.  Some  months  he  earned  about  $8,000,  others  about  $5,000,  with  impacts  of
school,  illness,  injury,  and  quarantining  for  COVID  (three  times,  for  two  weeks  each
time. His injuries resulted from his Marine Corps service or his later job as a mechanic
at the naval air station. (FORM Response 2)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  “racked  up  debt  on  multiple  credit  cards.”  He
was  making  only  minimum  payments  on  one  account.  He  could  not  afford  to  pay  the
others (about $1,600). He hoped to build his credit but got behind and could not afford
to pay them. He used one card (about $5,000) for utilities and living expenses and could
not  afford  to  pay  the  minimum  balance.  He  ran  out  of  GI  Bill  money.  His  income  was
also cut in half, making it difficult to feed and shelter his family. (FORM Response 2)
Applicant’s finances have improved now that he has begun his job overseas. He
says  he earns  about $5,000  every two  weeks  (about $10,000  per month).  His  rent for
the home where his wife and children live in the U.S. is $1,925 per month. He has $640
a month in car payments. He is beginning to get caught up on addressing his debt. He
still is settling his federal tax debt with the IRS, and he does not intend to contest what
he is told he owes. (FORM Response)
Tunisia  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  a  multiparty,  unicameral  parliamentary
system  and  a  democratically  elected  president.  Tunisia  held  its  first  democratic
elections in 2014, and in October 2019, the country held parliamentary and presidential
elections  resulting  in  the  first  democratic  transition  of  power.  Kais  Saied,  an
independent candidate without a political party, was elected president.
The  Government’s  Administrative   Notice   materials  from   the   State   Department
detail   several   terrorist   attacks  in   2020.  The   risk  of  terrorist  activity  remained   high,
exacerbated   by   sustained   instability  in   Libya.  Counterterrorism   and   border  security
continued   to   be   top   priorities  of   the   Government  of  Tunisia   in   2021.  Tunisia   works  to
professionalize   its  security  apparatus  in  partnership   with   the   United   States.  The   State
for  Tunisia,  available   at
Department’s  2021   Country  Reports  on   Terrorism
https://www.state.gov/reports/country-reports-on-terrorism-2021/tunisia,
contains
substantially similar information, while  noting  a decline in terrorist activity.
Significant human rights issues reported in 2021 included: reports of unlawful or
arbitrary  killings  by  security  forces;  allegations  of  torture  by  government  agents;
arbitrary  arrests  and  detentions  of  suspects  under  antiterrorism  or  emergency  laws;
undue restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, including  criminalization of
libel; widespread corruption, although the government took steps to combat it;  societal
violence  and  threats  of  violence  targeting  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  and
intersex  persons;  criminalization  of  consensual  same-sex  sexual conduct  that  resulted
10
in  arrests  and  abuse  by  security  forces;  and  the  worst  forms  of  child  labor.  The  State
Department’s
Tunisia,
https://www.state.gov/reports/2022-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/tunisia,
detailed substantially similar information.
Human
Report
Rights
2022
for
In October 2022,  the U.S. Department of State  issued a Level 2 travel advisory
for  Tunisia,  advising  U.S.  nationals  exercise  increased  caution  when  travelling  to
Tunisia due to terrorism.
