Applicant is 30 years old, has never married, and has no children. She earned a
bachelor’s degree in 2017. She has worked for a DoD contractor since September 2021.
She  is  a  first-time  applicant  for  a  security  clearance  and  is  seeking  to  obtain  national
security eligibility in connection with her employment. (Tr. at 21-23; GE 1 at Sections 2,
12, 13A, 17, 18, 25.)
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Involvement
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she  has  a  history  of  drug  involvement.  Specifically,  the  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana  with  “varying  frequency  from  about  October
2012  to  at  least  September  2021.”  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.)  The  SOR  also  alleged  that
Applicant “used and purchased the hallucinogenic drug called mushrooms with varying
frequency from about February 2015 to about December 2019.” (SOR ¶ 1.c.) The SOR
further alleged that Applicant intended to continue use of “cannabis” and “mushrooms” in
the future. (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e.) In her Answer Applicant admitted the allegation set forth
in SOR ¶ 1.b and admitted with explanations the allegations in SOR ¶¶1.a, 1.c, and 1.d.
She denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.e.
I make the following findings of fact with respect to each of the SOR allegations:
1.a.  Marijuana   Use.   Applicant  used  marijuana   socially when   she   was  in  college
(2012-2017).   Sharing   marijuana   was  a   common   way  for  Applicant  and   her  friends  to
socialize,   and   she   felt   she   should   join   them   to   maintain  their   friendship.   At  times,   her
social use  was  several  times a  day.  By  2013,  her  use  became  frequent.  In  that  year she
received  a  medical marijuana  card so  that she  could buy marijuana  in her state  legally.
She used  marijuana  “medically”  at  that  time  for  anxiety  and  nausea  and  to  help  her sleep.
(Tr. at 28-31.)
In July 2014, Applicant was injured while wake boarding. She seriously damaged
muscles and tendons in her leg. Her leg was put in a cast and when the cast was removed,
she experienced searing pain. The use of the cast to immobilize her leg was a mistake
and she developed a serious condition called Chronic Regional Pain Syndrome or CRPS.
In her accident she had also damaged her leg nerves, and she has been subsequently
advised the worst thing to do with damaged nerves is to immobilize the area of the body
where the nerves have been damaged. Applicant saw eight doctors before being referred
to her current doctor, who is reputed to be the best doctor for treating her rare condition.
He treats her with a very high dose of one prescription medication for her nervous system
and two other medications. Applicant provided a letter from a pain management doctor
who  evaluated  her.  His  letter  graphically  describes  the  extraordinary  level  of  pain
Applicant experiences on a daily basis. She also provided a medical article describing her
rare condition. (Tr. at 28-40, 45; AE B; AE C.)
During the period 2019 to 2021, Applicant only used marijuana at night to help her
sleep because her condition caused her so much pain. Occasionally, she used marijuana
during the day for pain relief. During that period, she underwent multiple surgeries on her
leg and foot. When she was prescribed opioids after surgeries, she did not use marijuana
at  the  direction  of  her  doctors.  Her  current  doctor  is  aware  that  in  the  past  she  used
marijuana for her pain in addition to the medications he prescribed. (Tr. at 28-40.)
Applicant last used marijuana in August 2021, just before she was hired for her
current position in September 2021. She stopped using marijuana at that time because
she knew it was not legal federally and she did not want to risk losing her job opportunity
to work for a federal contractor. (Tr. at 24-27.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  candidly  admitted  that  she  purchased  and  used
marijuana once after she was hired by her current employer. She had temporarily run out
of her prescription medication for her nerve pain and needed help to relieve her pain at
night so she could sleep. The lack of medication during that period of about six nights
also put her at risk of having seizures. One of the uses of her medication is to prevent
seizures.  By  running  out  of  the  medication,  which  she  takes  in  very  high  doses,  she
increases her risk of seizures. Marijuana reduced that risk because it calms the nervous
system like her medication. (Tr. at 30-40.)
Applicant is required to refill her prescriptions for the pain medication every three
months  and  must  see  her  doctor  in  person  to  receive  the  refill  prescription.  She  has
difficulty scheduling an appointment with him because he has a busy practice. On this
one  occasion,  she  made  a  mistake  and  called  a  little  too  late  to  receive  a  timely
appointment.  Once  she  received the new prescription,  it  took a  few more  days  for the
pharmacy to mail her the medication. She legally purchased the marijuana under her state
law for the limited purpose of filling in the gap due to her lack of medication. She does not
anticipate having a problem like this in the future. She felt too much anxiety about risking
her job by using marijuana during that week to ever permit herself to be in that position
again. Her job is too important to her. She is anxious to maintain a happy and healthy
trajectory in her life after so many years of misery due to her condition. (Tr.at 28, 30-33.,
38-40.)
At the time Applicant ran out of medication, she was driving two hours each way
to commute to work. This daily routine made her more susceptible to even greater pain
without her medication. After eight months, she relocated to a new home near her job to
avoid the excessive wear on her fragile condition. (Tr. at 44.)
Applicant  is comfortable  with  her prescription  medications now. She  is reducing
the amounts of the medication using alternative strategies to relieve her pain. She lives
by herself with her dog. She is not surrounded by people who use marijuana as she was
during  her  college  and  subsequent  years.  She  never  finds  herself  in  the  company  of
others using marijuana. (Tr. at 32- 35, 37.)
1.b.  Marijuana  Purchases. See discussion  under 1.c, below.
1.c.   Mushroom   Use  and   Purchases.   Applicant   wrote   in  the   Answer  that  she
purchased   and   used   mushrooms  “inconsistently  between   [about  February  2015   and
about December 2019] to  help with the tough  emotional and spiritual part of chronic pain
at 21  years  old.”  Her last use of mushrooms was in  or about  December  2019. When  she
was diagnosed  with  CRPS  just  before her 22nd  birthday, she  was devastated  and  at a
loss receiving  such  bad  news about her health  at her young  age. At times, she  wanted  to
end   her  life   because   her  pain  was  unbearable.   She   used   mushrooms  when   she   was
desperate,  such  as after a  failed  surgery for her condition. She  used  mushrooms about
five  times over nine  years. She  has no  intention  to  use  or purchase  mushrooms in  the
future, noting  in the  Answer that she  was “doing  much  better, thankfully.” Applicant is very
happy with her life  now and the direction it is going. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 27, 35-36.)
1.d. Intent to Use Cannabis in the Future. In the Answer, Applicant wrote that, “I
admit medical cannabis helps my pain and the struggles my pain puts me through, but if
it means putting my job at risk then I wont use cannabis unless it becomes federally legal.”
She credibly testified that she has no future intent to use cannabis.  She explained her
position further and clarified her statement in her security interview on the subject of her
future intent to use cannabis. She said that in the event that cannabis became legal at
the federal level in the future, she would use cannabis again for her medical condition. If
there is no change in federal law, then she has no intention to use marijuana in the future.
(Answer at 2; Tr. at 23-24, 44.)
1.e. Intent to Use Mushrooms in the Future. At the time of her security interview,
Applicant candidly commented that she may use cannabis and mushrooms occasionally
when necessary due to pain or for celebratory purposes. She denied in the Answer any
future intent to use mushrooms. She credibly testified that she now has no future intent
to use mushrooms. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 23-24, 50; GE 2 at 13.)
Mitigation and Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant is an independent, disabled person serving our military servicemembers
and working a full-time job. She has an emotional support dog. She rescues injured and
lost pets and finds them good homes. She is the best condition she has been in for nearly
a decade. She is determined to do what she needs to do to maintain this trajectory and
has been extremely honest about her past. She has received a coin  of appreciation for
her excellent work. She describes her job as the culmination of nearly 10 years of hard,
very painful work. She is dedicated to maintaining her improved health and her journey
to an even higher level of recovery. (Tr. at 49-50.)
