Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b and 2.b. He denied the SOR
allegation  in  ¶  2.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old. He is unmarried and has no children. Since July 2018,
he has cohabitated with another. He earned a  bachelor’s degree  in May 2017 and  has
worked  for  his  present  employer  since  July  2017.  He  completed  a  security  clearance
application (SCA) in May 2018 and was granted a security clearance in October 2018.
(Item 3)
Applicant  disclosed  in  his  May  2018  SCA  that  he  used  marijuana  from  about
September 2009 to January 2012, primarily while attending high school. He began using
it  weekly  and  then  daily  by  the  time  he  said  he  stopped  using  it.  He  purchased  the
marijuana he used. He disclosed that his use negatively impacted his productivity, which
is why he stopped. He also noted that he loved his job and wanted to keep it. (Item 3)
In  September  2020,  Applicant  completed  a  new  SCA.  He  disclosed  that  in
November 2018 the following occurred.
On  my   first   trip   to   California,  I  legally  purchased   items  containing   THC  from   a
dispensary  with   the   intent  of   traveling   across  state   lines  via  airplane   and
distributing  it as  gifts  to  my friends  when  I returned  home  to  the  state  of [X],  where
recreational THC was also legal at the time.  (Item 4)
He further stated in his September 2020  SCA: “I was asked to bring souvenirs back from
my trip, I thought of the  items containing  THC as a  ‘gag  gift.’”  He said  in his SCA, “This
was trafficking  THC products  from  one  legal  state to
another legal  state  but traveled  on
U.S. airlines across state lines which I believe makes this event illegal.”  (Item 4)
In   October  2020,   Applicant  was  interviewed   by  a   government  investigator.  He
explained  that in  November  2018  he  purchased  THC  edibles and  multiple  THC vaporized
cartridges.  He explained  his purchase  was  one  time,  and  he  never used  any  of the  THC
products.  He   stated   that  his  first  involvement  was  in   November  2018   and   his   last
involvement  with  THC was in November 2018. He told  the  investigator that  he  thought it
would be  okay to  purchase  it because  it was legal. He  told  the  investigator that he  did  not
realize it was illegal to  transport THC on an  airplane,  and  he only recently found  this out.
He admitted  to  the  investigator that  he  was aware purchasing  THC was against  the  rules,
regulations,  and procedures while possessing a security clearance. When asked why he
decided   to   purchase   the   THC,  he   explained   that  he   did  not   think  he   would  be
reinvestigated  for ten  years. Applicant was asked  by  the  government investigator about
other  drug  involvement,  and  he  said he  had  ----
never  used  THC and  cannot comment  on
how drugs affect his behavior.  Applicant did not disclose  his 2009  to  2012  marijuana  use
to this investigator during this interview.
Applicant was re-interviewed by a government investigator on November 12, 2020.
He was asked to clarify his statement from his October 2020 interview where he explained
the reason he purchased the THC while holding a security clearance was because he did
not think he would be reinvestigated for ten years. He admitted he was aware it was a
violation of rules, regulations, and procedure to purchase THC products while possessing
a security clearance. He told the investigator that he knew that he could not purchase any
illegal drug or have any involvement with illegal drugs while holding a security clearance.
He said that when he saw the THC products while in California, his thought process was
they were legal in California and legal in the state where he had a layover and legal in the
state where he was going, so he thought it would be okay to purchase THC as gag gifts
for his friends. He said that the latter part of his thought process overtook the part of him
holding a security clearance at the time. He acknowledged that he made a poor and wrong
choice, and it would not happen again. (Item 5)
Government  interrogatories  were  sent  to  Applicant,  and  he  was  provided  a
summary of his interviews with government investigators. In June 2022, he made several
changes to the summary before indicating it was an accurate reflection of his interview.
He did not correct the record or provide an explanation about his failure to disclose to the
government investigator his prior drug use from 2009 to 2012.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  his  marijuana  use  from  2009  to
2012  and  that he purchased  marijuana  in November 2018. He stated: “I did something
that I was absolutely not supposed to do and that it was dumb and dangerous.” (Item 2)
Applicant denied that he failed to provide accurate information to the investigators. He
said, “At no point did I believe the information I had reported on a previous e-QIP for an
incident that had occurred more than 7 years prior to the current investigative process
was  relevant  to  the  investigation.”  He  further  stated,  “At  no  point  did  I  falsify  any
information because I accurately reported that I could not comment on how drugs affected
my behavior as my body and mind had matured in the 8 years since the previous incident.”
He also said, “I had tried to ask the interviewer to elaborate so that I could more accurately
understand the scope of what he was asking, as I believed it was a trick question designed
to  get  a  response  contradicting  the  incident  in  subparagraph  1.b,  which  I  was  just
questioned about.” (Item 2)
Applicant  never  referenced  his  inability  to  understand  the  question  that  the
investigator  was  asking  during  his  previous  interviews.  He  also  did  not  address  his
inability when he reviewed his summary of interviews that were provided as part of his
interrogatories. (Item 5)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  he  said  that  he  answered  the  questions
posed in the interrogatories about the accuracy of the information. He said, “At no point
was  there  a  question  asked  to  elaborate  on  responses  given,  I  was  simply  asked  to
correct anything the investigator may have reported incorrectly.” He also noted that there
was  a  place  to  put  additional  information  regarding  the  matters  discussed  during  the
interview. He said:
I  did  not  immediately  think  to   recall   how  I  felt  answering   each   question
during   the   long   and   intensive   interview.   Instead,  I  opted   to   mention   an
address   change   as  I   have   moved   nearby   at   some   point  during   the
adjudicative   process.  Even   if  I  thought  that   this  is  what   the   “additional
information”   was  referencing,  I   would  not   begin  to   understand   the   scope
being asked. . ..” (AE  A)
Applicant’s FORM  response  notes that when  he  completed  his 2020  SCA he  did
not report his 2009  to  2012  drug  use  because  it was outside  the  seven-year time  frame.
He decided  that because  the  drug  use  was outside  the  seven  years  he  did  not have  to
disclose   it  in  his 2020   SCA  or during   his subsequent  investigative   interview.  Applicant
said he  did not  falsify material facts  during  his October 2020  subject  interview.  He did not
provide  an  explanation  for why when  he  was specifically asked  by  the  investigator about
never  used  THC and  he  could not  comment
his prior drug  involvement,  he  said he  had  ----
on how drugs affect his behavior.
Applicant further stated that “at no point did I contradict any of what was previously
reported.” He emphasized that he had self-reported the 2018 purchase and transportation
of THC, which is indicative of his honesty. He said he has been cooperative, and he is
trustworthy. He said he is aware that his conduct was “dumb and dangerous” and made
him vulnerable to exploitation and there is not an excuse for his actions. He believes he
is  trustworthy  because  he  self-reported  his  purchase  and  transportation  of  THC.  He
indicated this was an isolated incident. He has not been involved in any security violations.
He said he is praised for his work performance.
I do not find Applicant’s statements and explanations credible. I find he deliberately
falsified material facts during his personal subject interview on October 10, 2020, with an
authorized  investigator  with  the  Department  of  Defense  when  he  stated  he  had  never
used THC and could not comment on how drugs affected his behavior.
Applicant stated in his FORM response the following:
I  take   my  job   and   national  security  very  seriously.  At  work  I  have   been
praised   numerous  times  for  my   performance   on   my   project   that   involves
classified  information. The  information  that I am  in charge  of is invaluable
to  the  nation  and  our  treaties with  foreign  nations which  I take  great pride
in.  At no  point have  I ever been  involved  in any  sort of leak, and  I make  sure
all   information   I  work  with   is  stored   and   transferred   correctly.  I   have
previously been  involved  with  locking  up  closed  rooms  which  involved  doing
sweeps for any materials that were improperly stored  and  they’ve always
been thorough with no  incidents to  date. (AE  A)
