Applicant is a 57-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  about  June  2018.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1988.
He is married without children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 45, 49-50, 103; Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant  worked  as  a  civilian  employee  of  the  U.S.  military  from  2007  until  he
resigned pursuant to a settlement agreement in April 2018. He became a branch head
in  about  early  2016.  He  had  supervisory  responsibilities  within  the  section  (e.g.,
technical,  personnel,  facilities,  etc.).  He  coordinated  and  provided  funding  on  the
contract  for  contactor  personnel,  and  he  provided  feedback  to  the  contracting  officer
representative  (COR)  on  contractor  performance.  (Tr.  at  47-51,  105-107;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
In  October  2017,  a  female  contract  employee  (Ms.  A)  contacted  the  labor  and
employee  relations  office  to  report  inappropriate,  uncomfortable  and  physical  touching
and  comments  made  by  Applicant.  An  investigation  was  conducted,  and  a  report  was
issued in November 2017. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  was  a  single  mother  of  two  who  had  never  worked  outside  the  home
before  this  job.  English  is  her  second  language.  She  started  working  as  a  contract
employee  at  the  defense  facility  in  about  May  2016.  She  remained  after  another
company  took  over  the  contract  in  December  2016.  She  held  a  security  clearance  for
her job. (Tr. at 56, 108; GE 2)
Ms. A worked in a cubicle outside Applicant’s office. She reported that Applicant
made  repeated  inappropriate  suggestions  and  hugged  her,  which  she  perceived  as
uncomfortable and inappropriate. She  was concerned about her financial security, and
he told her that he was responsible for her salary because he managed her contract. He
promised that he would help convert her to a government employee. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  reported  that  about  six  months  into  her  employment,  Applicant  started
hugging her; asking her to turn full circle, commenting “nice” while nodding his approval
at  her  appearance;  asking  her  to  long  lunches  away  from  work;  and  closing  his  door
when he called her into his office. She stated that she was initially not offended by the
hugs,  but  they  eventually  made  her  uncomfortable.  She  voiced  her  objections  to  him,
but the comments and hugs continued. She stated that when she refused his hugs, he
became irritated, yelled at her, and often criticized her work. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  stated  that  Applicant  called  her  on  November  4,  2016,  and  asked  her  to
meet  him  at  a restaurant  for lunch.  She drove  to the restaurant,  but  it  was  closed.  He
drove them both to another restaurant where they had lunch. They walked around after
lunch. He then drove her to the airport  and parked. He said that he liked to watch the
planes take off. While there, he asked her if she wanted to be his girlfriend. She told him
no, and that she thought of him as a good boss and nothing more. He then got red and
appeared  angry.  She  asked  him  to  drive  her  to  her  car  so  that  she  could  go  back  to
work. Afterward, she called a friend who told her to document everything that happened.
She maintained a notebook about his subsequent actions. That is how she was able to
identify specific dates. (GE 2)
The  investigator  noted  that  a  Google  Maps  search  indicated  an  average  drive
time of 42 minutes from the facility to the restaurant; 22 minutes from the restaurant to
the airport; and 32 minutes from the airport to the facility. I believe the times to and from
the airport may be a bit skewed because it indicates travel to the airport when Applicant
indicated  that  they  were  in  a  parking  area  by  the  airport.  He  stated  the  trip  from  the
facility  to  the  restaurant  was  about  30  minutes,  and  the  airport  is  on  the  way.  Travel
times can vary greatly based on time of day and traffic conditions. I accept Applicant’s
travel  times.  The  investigator  noted  that  Applicant  signed  into  the  facility  at  0705  on
November 4, 2016, and signed out at 1705. (GE 2)
Ms. A reported that on November 7, 2016, Applicant called her into his office and
invited her to his home when his wife was not home, so that they could talk. She stated
that she told him no, and that it was not appropriate. She felt uncomfortable but did not
tell him. She just changed the subject. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  reported  that  on  November  21,  2016,  Applicant  called  her  into  his  office
and  stated  that  because  of  the  Thanksgiving  holiday,  he  would  not  see  her  for  a  few
days,  and  that  he  wanted  to  hug  her.  The  hug  made  her  uncomfortable.  He  made
“weird”  sounds  similar  to  moaning,  and  he  started  to  shake  or  shimmy.  The  following
week, she told him that the hugs made her uncomfortable, and she asked him to stop.
He  apologized  and  said  he  knew that  he  should  not  hug  her, but he  could  not  control
himself. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  stated  that  in  the  middle  of  the  day  in late  2016  or early  2017,  Applicant
asked her to go with him on an errand to buy a flag. He bought a flag and surprised her
on the way back to the facility and drove to his home. He asked her to come in and see
his Christmas tree. She refused and asked him to take her back to work, which he did
after about ten minutes. (GE 2)
Ms. A reported that on January 4, 2017, Applicant asked her to lunch. He asked
her to meet him at the stop sign around the corner of their building so that no one would
see them leave together. (GE 2)
Ms. A stated that in March 2017, Applicant called her into his office and told her
that he was responsible for funding her salary. He showed her on his computer how he
added funding to her contract. On one occasion after refusing a hug, he told her that he
had been a contractor once and was laid off. He suggested that she prepare a resume
in case it ever happened to her. (GE 2)
According  to  Ms.  A,  in  March  2017,  Applicant  told  her  that  he  learned  her
address from her resume and drove by her home while he was visiting a shooting range
in her vicinity. He told her how many telephone poles were on her street. He invited her
to go with him to a shooting range by her home. (GE 2)
In  May  2017,  Ms.  A  texted  Applicant  that  she  wanted  the  hugs  and  meetings
behind  closed  doors  to  stop.  He  did  not  hug  her  again  or  talk  to  her  with  the  door
closed, but he continued to ask her to lunch. He responded to her text:
Not  a  problem  at  all!  I’m  sorry  you  felt  uncomfortable.  I  only  gave  you  a
few hugs as a friend because you did that to me first and because you told
me  you  were  absolutely  ok  with  it.  Also,  I  was  not  upset  the  other  day
because  of  this  at  all.  I’m  glad  you  told  me!  I  want  you  to  be  completely
comfortable and happy. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  reported  that  in  about  June  2017,  she  shared  her  problems  with  the
employee  (Ms.  X)  in  the  next  cubicle.  She  asked  Ms.  X  not  to  tell  anyone  for  fear  it
would get back to Applicant. When questioned in the investigation, Ms. X reported that
in  the  summer  of  2017,  Ms.  A  walked  over  to  her.  She  was  visibly  crying  and  upset
about  something  that  happened  between  her  and  Applicant.  Ms.  X  denied  knowing
anything about why Ms. A was upset. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  also  shared  her  problems  with  her  COR,  who  responded  with  a  text  on
about June 16, 2017:
Good  Morning  [Ms.  A],  this  is  [COR’s  first  name]  so  lock  my  number  in
your  phone.  How  are  you  doing  today?  I  was  thinking  about  our
conversation we had yesterday and I have been thinking . . . DO NOT go
to  lunch  with  him  anymore  unless  it’s  in  a  group  setting.  Remember  to
document everything that happens no matter how small it might be. Also,
[Ms.  X]  said  you  don’t  want  information  shared  so  I’m  not  going  to  say
anything BUT if it gets to the point where it’s unbearable and you need to
take action then I have someone for you to talk to. I know she’s open and
will  help  you.  We  can  discuss  later  when  you’re  not  in  the  office  if  you
want. Don’t let this stress you to the point you end up getting sick. Stress
is a silent killer. (GE 2)
On  July 13,  2013,  Applicant emailed the  resumes of 16  job  applicants  to  Ms. A
with the instructions, “Please print these resumes out for me, and sort them according to
the  order  in  which  you  think  I  will  be  most  interested.  The  sort  criteria  should  be:
technical  relevance  followed  by  personality  (looking  for  mature,  determined  people).”
The  resumes  contained  personally  identifiable  information  (PII),  and  the  task  was
outside Ms. A’s scope of employment and need to know. (GE 2)
Ms.  A  was  informed  by  Applicant  on  September  8,  2017,  that  her  contract  was
not  being  renewed.  She  was  given  the  option  of  coming  to  the  facility  or  teleworking
until the end of the contract in October 2017. (GE 2)
Ms. A engaged in a series of texts with the COR over the weekend (September 8
and 9, 2017). The COR agreed to meet her on Monday. (GE 2)
In September 2017, Applicant drove to meet with the president of the contracting
company that employed Ms. A. He did not inform the COR of the meeting, and he did
not have the authority to interact with the president of the company. (GE 2)
On  September  14,  2017,  Applicant  sent  an  email  to  the  president  of  the
contracting  company.  He  dictated  tasks  to  be  assigned  to  Ms.  A  that  she  could
complete off-site. The COR was not copied on the email. (GE 2)
On  September  19,  2017,  Ms.  A  emailed  Applicant  and  the  president  of  her
company. She wrote that she would like to work in the facility in October 2017 instead of
teleworking. (GE 2)
On  September  20,  2017,  Applicant  sent  an  email  to  the  president  of  the
company:
[President’s  first  name];  I  can’t  dictate  this,  as  you  know,  but  for
informational  purposes  only,  my  preference  would  be  to  stay  with  the
original plan (i.e.. telework in October: in which case [Ms. A’s] last day on
site would be 29 Sep 17). Please let me know how you will approach this.
Any  communication  on  [Ms.  A’s]  schedule  will  need  to  come  from  you.
(GE 2)
On  September  28,  2017,  Ms.  A  went  to  the  division  head  (Mr.  B),  who  was
Applicant’s  supervisor,  and  presented  him  with  a  three-page  document  containing  her
interactions  with  Applicant.  She  stated  that  she  reached  out  to  the  Equal  Opportunity
Employment (EEO) office and asked hypothetically what would happen if someone filed
a claim such as hers. She was told the information would be reported to the department
head (Mr. B’s supervisor) and Mr. B. Ms. A stated that she did not want that to happen,
as she wanted the issue to remain between her and Applicant. Mr. B responded that by
bringing the information to him, he had a responsibility to report it. He asked her if she
did not want to escalate the situation, why she brought the issue to him. She replied, “I
really want a job.” He told her to telework for the rest of the week. (GE 2)
Mr.  B  spoke  with  Applicant  about  Ms.  A’s  statement.  Applicant’s  initial  reaction
appeared to be a combination of shock and embarrassment. He denied asking her to be
his girlfriend and going to her home. He admitted going to lunch with her and giving and
receiving  hugs.  He  denied  having  any  romantic  interest  in  her,  stating  that  he  was
happily married. (GE 2)
Mr. B reported that Applicant came to him and suggested that Mr. B have Ms. A’s
common access card (CAC) pulled after she was notified that her contract would come
to  an  end. Applicant told  Mr. B  that he  was concerned that  Ms.  A would  be emotional
about  losing  her  job  and  might  consider  sabotage,  because  high-level  private-sector
employees  sometimes  do  that  when  they  lose  their  job.  Applicant  also  stated  that  it
would  prevent  Ms.  A  from  coming  through  the  gate  and  becoming  disruptive.  Mr.  B
stated that pulling Ms. A’s CAC would not be appropriate as she needed it for her job,
and there was no indication that she was a threat. (GE 2)
Mr.  B  reported  that  he  had  known  Applicant  to  be  even  tempered  and  very
professional.  The  contract  associated  with  Ms.  A  was  scheduled  to  end  in  November
2017. There was no plan to renew the contract due to the lack of available funding, and
about  10  to  11  months  earlier,  the  division  hired  a  full-time  government  administrative
support  person  who  could  handle  some  issues  that  Ms.  A,  as  a  contract  employee,
could not. He stated that he had heard from Applicant and the administrative officer that
Ms. A’s work performance was not up to standard. Ms. A was informed that her contract
would be coming to an end. (GE 2)
The  administrative  officer  was  interviewed  for  the  investigation  on  October  4,
2017. She did not report any problems with Ms. A’s work, indicating the only comment
she  heard  from  any  employees  was  that  Ms.  A  was  talkative.  She  had  not  heard  any
negative  comments  from  Applicant  about  Ms.  A’s  work.  Applicant  informed  the
administrative  officer  that  he  was  ending  the  support  of  the  contract  due  to  funding
issues. (GE 2)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  the  investigation.  The  interview  and  his  security
clearance hearing testimony were consistent for the most part. He admitted that some
of  Ms.  A’s  statements  were  true,  and  he  vehemently  denied  others.  He  developed  a
“deeply  personal”  relationship  with  her.  They  discussed  marital  issues,  financial
problems,  and  their  families.  He  realizes  that  he  let  the  relationship  progress  beyond
what  he  should  have,  but  he  stated  that  he  had  no  romantic  interest  in  Ms.  A
whatsoever,  and  much  of  what  she  alleged  was  false.  He  stated  that  he  never  asked
her to be his girlfriend. (Tr. at 59-67, 73-74, 99, 120, 167-168; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  stated  that  he  hugged  Ms.  A  as  a  friend  about  8  to  12  times,  but  the
hugs  were  never  sexual  in  nature.  He  comes  from  a  physically  demonstrative  family,
and  he  hugs.  He  could  not  name  another  employee  that  he  hugged  behind  closed
doors. He completely denied any moaning sounds or shaking and shimmying when they
hugged. He stated that Ms. A initiated some of the hugs and made him uncomfortable,
but he hugged her to make her happy. In his February 2018 response to  the notice of
proposed removal, he stated that she told him in about September 2016 that she would
not mind if he kissed her, to which he refused.  He admitted in that response that they
hugged at least two times after she told him that he could kiss her. He testified that he
did not recall if he hugged her or invited her to lunch after she said he could kiss her. He
could not recall if she asked him to stop the hugs before he received the May 2017 text
message, but he stopped hugging her after the text message. He continued to ask her
to lunch. (Tr. at 61-66, 121-124, 130; Applicant’s response to SOR, Tab K; GE 2)
Applicant stated that he went to lunch with Ms. A about six times. He was asked
why he drove the distance to the one restaurant. He stated that it was a nice restaurant,
and  they  were  both  off  the  rest  of  the  day,  so  the  drive  was  less  important.  That  was
also  why  they  had  the  time  to  stop  by  the  airport.  He  stated  they  both  drove  to  the
restaurant and the lot outside the airport but sat in his car at the airport lot and talked.
He  admitted  that  he  told  her  that  he  was  having  marital  problems.  The  investigator
reported that he stated that he told Ms. A that he was thinking about finding a girlfriend.
Applicant   testified   that  he   did  not  tell   Ms.   A   that  he   was   thinking   about   finding   a
girlfriend, and  he  did not remember telling  the  investigator that  he  said that.  (Tr. at 68-
69; 126-128, 151-153, 156-161, 165-166; Applicant’s response  to SOR; GE  2)
The  investigator  reported  that  Applicant  signed  into  the  facility  at  0705  on
November 4, 2016 (the date identified by Ms. A as when they went to the restaurant and
airport), and signed out at 1705. Applicant testified that he never asked Ms. A to lunch
while he was on leave and away from  work. In Applicant’s February 2018 response to
the notice of proposed removal, he stated that he was on leave on November 4, 2016.
(Tr. at 157-159; Applicant’s response to SOR, Tab K; GE 2)
Applicant stated that he never asked Ms. A to come to his home, but he did drive
Ms. A to his house after lunch in a spur of the moment decision. His house was not too
far out of the way, and he drove by just so she could see the house. He is proud of his
Christmas  tree.  He  stated  that  he  never  planned  to  take  her  into  the  house,  but  he
decided to ask if she wanted to come in and see his Christmas tree. He stated that they
were in his driveway for less than two minutes. (Tr. at 74-78, 128; Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant stated that he knew Ms. A’s address because they both looked it up on
Google Maps on his computer. He denied ever driving by her home. He stated that one
of Ms. A’s children was interested in archery, and he recommended the shooting range
near her home, because it offered archery classes. (Tr. at 78-80; Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant admitted that in retrospect he should not have provided the resumes to
Ms.  A  to  review.  He  thought  it  was  acceptable  at  the  time  because  they  were  sent
encrypted, and they remained in  the office. Ms. A had a secret clearance. He realizes
that he provided her with PII that was beyond her need to know, and it was outside of
her scope of employment. (Tr. at 53-57, 102, 143-145, 163-164; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  show  Ms.  A  on  his  computer  how  he  added
funding to her contract, but he did show her a blank sample of how the process works,
in order to allay her financial fears. He stated that he told her that he would do his best
to  help  her  become  a  government  employee.  (Tr.  at  71-74,  117-119;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant testified that he talked with the COR before he took actions to end the
funding for Ms. A’s contract in the next fiscal year. The COR reported that she was not
told  about  the  meeting  with  the  president  of  the  contracting  company  until  after  the
meeting. Applicant asserted that the decision to not fund her contract was based on a
purely fiscal reason and was unrelated to his personal dealings with her. He drove the
10  to  15  miles  to  the  contractor’s  office  out  of  professional  courtesy.  Her  complaint
came after she was informed that her contract was ending. (Tr. at 84-99, 134-142, 155;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
I  did  not  find  Applicant’s  statement  during  the  investigation  nor his testimony  at
the hearing credible. Where his and Ms. A’s descriptions of the events differ, I find her
version to be more accurate.
Based  on  the  findings  in  the  investigation,  including  the  PII  breach  with  the
resumes,  Applicant  was  removed  from  federal  employment  for  conduct  unbecoming  a
federal  employee.  He  appealed  the  decision  with  the  Merit  Systems  Protection  Board
(MSPB).  A  settlement  was  reached  between  Applicant  and  the  agency  in  which  the
agency  agreed  to  withdraw  the  removal  action  in  return  for  Applicant’s  voluntary
resignation. He resigned in April 2018. (Tr. at 50-53; Applicant’s response to SOR, Tab
H-M; GE 2)
Applicant called two witnesses, and he submitted documents and letters attesting
to  his  excellent  job  performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his
technical  capabilities,  expertise,  professionalism,  trustworthiness,  diligent  handling  of
classified
reliability,  work  ethic,  honesty,
dedication,  and  integrity.  Individuals  who  have  known  and  supervised  him  for  many
years  indicated  that  the  alleged  behavior  is  completely  out  of  character  for  him.  He  is
recommended  for  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  at  17- 43;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR,
Tabs D-F)
judgment,  dependability,
information,
