Applicant  is  28  years  old.  She  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  and  is  currently  in
graduate school.  She holds the position of Senior Systems Engineer.  She is seeking to
obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  was  employed  with  defense  contractor  A,  from  May  2017  to  March
2019.  During  that  employment,  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  dated  June
14, 2017.  Section 23 of the application, concerning Illegal drug use, asked, “In the last
seven  years  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”  and,  “while
possessing a security clearance have you ever illegally used or otherwise been involved
with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  other  than
previously listed?”  Applicant answered “No” to both questions.  In December 2017, she
was granted a security clearance.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
Applicant began working for defense contractor B in September 2019, where she
currently  remains  employed.  On  October  25,  2021,  Applicant  completed  a  second
security  clearance  application.  This  time,  in  response  to  questions  in  Section  23,
Applicant admitted that she had used marijuana within the past seven years, from June
2016  to  June  2019.  (Government  Exhibit  3.)
In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
admitted that she used  marijuana with varying frequency between June 2016 and June
2019.  She  also  admitted  to  using  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about
December  2017  to  about  June  2019,  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant also stated that her use of marijuana occurred while she was in college
and  between  the  time  she  was  employed  with  defense  contractor  A  and  defense
contractor B.  She further stated that between those jobs, she worked for a non-cleared,
non-government contractor company for about six months.  She stated that her use of
marijuana  was  minimal  and  that  it  was  not  a  habit  or  regular  occurrence.  She  stated
that it has been several years since she has used marijuana, and she has no intentions
of ever using it again.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
Applicant also stated that she never intended to mislead the Government on her
June 2017 security clearance application  She explained that it was a mistake of youth
and misunderstanding.  When she initially filled out the security clearance application in
June  2017,  she  thought  the  question  only  referred  to  hard  core  drug  use  and  not
marijuana  use.  She  stated  that  when  she  filled  out  the  second  application,  she  knew
that the question referred to all illegal drug use including marijuana, and so to be honest
and candid she admitted her use.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
