Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a. She admitted and denied different
aspects of SOR ¶ 1.b. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 52 years old. She served in the military on active duty from 1989 to
1993  and  was  in  the  reserves  until  1996.  She  received  an  honorable  discharge.  She
earned a bachelor’s degree in 2001 and a master’s degree in 2008. She has been married
since 1995 and has an adult stepson. She worked for federal contractors since 2007 and
held a security clearance throughout her employment. She started working for her present
employer in January 2022. At the time of her hearing, Applicant was on medical leave
until February 5, 2023. (GE 1; Tr. 19-26, 68-71)
Applicant has had a myriad of medical issues. In June 2017, she was hospitalized
with  encephalitis-like  symptoms.  Her  symptoms  were  severe  headache,  nausea,  and
neck  pain.  She  was  provided  different  treatments  that  she  said  did  not  work  and  was
originally hospitalized for a week, released, and then hospitalized again.  She returned to
work in September 2017. Encephalitis is an inflammation of the brain. Flu-like symptoms
are possible  and  in more  severe cases people may experience  problems with  speech  and
hearing, hallucinations, personality  changes,  loss of  consciousness,  loss of  sensation  in
some  parts of the  body,  muscle weakness, partial paralysis in the  arms and  legs, impaired
judgment,  seizures,  and  memory loss.1  (Tr. Tr. 28-29; AE-AO,  AE-AP, AE-AQ,  AE-AR;
HE  VIII)
In April 2018, Applicant was hospitalized. Her medical records reflect that she had
a  long  history  of  encephalopathy  of  unknown  origin  and  was  diagnosed  with  acute
encephalopathy, pneumonia, and sepsis. Encephalopathy is a term for any disease of the
brain that alters brain function or structure. It may be caused by other medical issues. The
hallmark of it is an altered mental state. Common neurological symptoms are progressive
loss of memory and cognitive abilities, subtle personality changes, inability to concentrate,
lethargy,  and  progressive  loss  of  consciousness.2  At  the  time  of  her  admission  to  the
hospital her husband reported she had a cough, fever, and confusion and was not making
sense. She testified that at that time, the doctors did not know if the encephalopathy or
sepsis was the cause of her symptoms. She was discharged several days later, returned
to work for ten days, and then relapsed. She was taken to a university hospital and was
admitted  for  encephalopathy  and  psychosis.  She  was  an  inpatient  for  a  week  and
discharged. She tried to work the month of May but was having recurring headaches and
went to the community hospital two more times in May 2018. (Tr. 29-31; AE-AO, AE-AQ,
AE-AR, HE VIII)
In June 2018, Applicant voluntarily went to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)
hospital and was admitted. She made comments of a suicide nature to one of the resident
physicians and the admission was converted to an involuntary admission. She explained
she became frustrated and should not have made the comments she did. She was tired
of  the  probing  and  said  she  was  sick of  being  questioned  and  said  if  the  window  was
open, she would jump out of it. They were on the second floor. She did not mean this as
a suicidal statement, but more one of frustration. She spent four days in the hospital. (Tr.
31-34; GE 5; AE-AR)
In June 2018, when  Applicant went to the VA hospital because she was having
chest pains, foggy vision and altered mental status. She said she lost voluntary control at
the time and felt like she was at the bottom of a pool and unable to respond to stimuli
around  her.  She  acknowledged  having  impaired  reality  testing  (such  as  auditory  and
visual  hallucinations  and  delusional  beliefs).  She  had  periods  of  severe  confusion,
cognitive problems or forgetfulness, distractibility, losing her train of thought, slow thinking
and word finding difficulties. She indicated that beginning in May 2018 she was perceiving
things that were not real. Applicant was on medical leave from her employment from June
2018 to June 2019. (Tr.94-95; GE 5 at 34-35, 93; AE-AR)
1 HE VIII; https://www.ninhs.nih.gov/health-information/disorders/encephalitis
2 HE VIII; https://www.ninhs.nih.gov/health-information/disorders/encephalopathy
After  Applicant’s  discharge  from  the  VA  hospital,  she  began  seeing  Dr.  D,  a
psychiatrist with the VA. She has been Dr. D’s patient since June 2018. It is reported that
Applicant began having confusion, disorientation, inability to communicate and seizures
in  late  2018.  She  was  diagnosed  with  epilepsy  in  approximately  June  2019  and  takes
anti-seizure medication for the epilepsy. (Tr. 34-39, 45-46; AE U)
Dr.  D  provided  a  letter from  June  2019  stating  she  had  been  treating  Applicant
since  June  2018  for  depression  disorder  and  anxiety  disorder.  Applicant  had  been
compliant  with  treatment  and  recommendations  and  had  achieved  her  baseline.  She
stated that Applicant would benefit from returning to work part-time. In April 2021, Dr. D
provided  another  letter  to  provide  a  summary  of  Applicant’s  care.  She  indicated  that
Applicant  initially  had  an  altered  mental  status  secondary  to  an  infection  of  unknown
source and not from a primary psychiatric disorder. She noted that Applicant should not
have been  admitted involuntarily to  the  psychiatric  floor in  June 2018  but  should have
been  placed  on  the  medical  floor.  After  an  extensive  medical  work  up,  Applicant  was
diagnosed  with  epilepsy,  double  pneumonia,  sepsis,  and  encephalopathy.  These  all
affected her cognitive ability. She has been somewhat depressed due to her cognitive
decline, short term memory loss, seizures, and lifestyle modifications. Dr. D noted that
her  neurologist  helped control  her seizures. She  returned  to  work in  September 2019.
She was discharged from Dr. D’s care in approximately January 2020. Applicant reached
out to Dr. D again after receiving the SOR and throughout 2021 and in the beginning of
2022. (Tr. 46-48, 132-136; AE S, T)
In December 2020, Applicant participated in a mental health evaluation with Dr. B,
a psychologist approved by the government. Dr. B administered psychological tests to
there  was  no  significant
Applicant.  The  results  were  considered  normal  and
psychopathology. Applicant’s responses were below average for motivation for treatment.
Dr.  B  diagnosed  Applicant  with  unspecified  anxiety  disorder,  unspecified  depressive
disorder, and functional neurologic disorder (previously referred to as conversion disorder
in prior versions of the DSM). She noted that Applicant was compliant with medications
prescribed by her physicians  for anxiety and depression.  Dr. B  reported  that Applicant
had not continued treatment with a psychiatrist or therapist, which contradicts Applicant’s
testimony.  Dr.  B  had  concerns  that  Applicant  could  have  a  recurrence  of  conversion
symptoms  due  to  her  lack  of  ongoing  treatment  for  anxiety  and  depression.  She
recommended  Applicant  continue  her  psychiatric/psychological  treatment,  despite  her
psychological test results that indicated Applicant is not interested in doing so, and her
treatment  recommendations.
history
Consequently, Dr. B stated that her prognosis is guarded. Applicant’s history of psychotic
episodes leads Dr. B to be concerned about Applicant’s reliability, judgment, stability, and
trustworthiness.  Applicant  testified  that  her  meeting  with  Dr.  B  was  through  the  Zoom
platform and lasted one hour. (Tr. 43-44; GE 4)
that  documents  her
to  adhere
failure
to
Medical records show that in July 2021, Applicant met with Dr. T, a rheumatologist,
for follow-up treatment. Applicant reported to Dr. T that she continued to have memory
problems and impaired cognitive ability, such that she could not even play Bingo. She
had difficulty  with  recall and  word-finding.  She  realized she was  incorrectly  performing
some tasks, like putting cereal in the dog bowl. (Tr. 119-120, 130; AE-AR)
On  March  28,  2022,  Applicant  was  admitted  to  the  hospital.  She  had  been
experiencing neurological symptoms like Bell’s palsy and dizziness in early March. It was
determined to be a virus. At the end of March, Applicant experienced severe headaches
that worsened over several days and she exhibited confusion. Her husband took her to
the  hospital  where  she  was  involuntarily  admitted.  She  testified  she  was  involuntarily
admitted into the psychiatric ward due to suffering from encephalopathy. Her symptoms
included confusion, psychosis and  “she  was not making  sense.” Her treating  physician
Dr.  T  communicated  with  the  admitting  hospital,  and  she  was  started  on  high  dose  of
steroids.  She  was  discharged  and  remained  on  a  five-day  regiment  of  intravenous
steroids. (Tr. 50-53, 141-142; AE-AR) When asked if Dr. T had diagnosed her, Applicant’s
testimony was as follows:
[Dr.  T]  suspected   that   it  was  autoimmune   encephalopathy.  And   she   also
consulted   with   a   neurologist   in  the   community  because   I   had   responded
with  the  high  dose  of steroids, that’s always been  her diagnosis has been
autoimmune  encephalopathy, steroid  responsive.  (Tr. 53)
At the bottom of the July 2021 medical report, Dr. T wrote a note dated March 31, 2022,
which stated:
I have  sent  this note  for her MD to  review  as I have  been  informed  of  her
admission  for mental health  status changes.  Please  consider a  Neurology
eval[uation]  for  encephalopathy  of  all   etiologies.   Her  Sjogren’s  dx
predisposes her to  autoimmune CNS involvement. (AE V)
Applicant remained  in the  hospital from  March 28, 2022,  until the  third  week of April
2022. She  reached  out  again to  Dr. D, and  she  is now seeing  her every four to  six weeks.
Applicant  testified   that  Dr.  D  strongly   ruled   out  any   type   of  conversion/functional
neurological disorder as mentioned  by Dr.  B. Dr. D provided  letters from  August 2021  and
October  2021,  which   specifically  rule   out  a  conversion   disorder.  In   her  October  2021
letter,   Dr.  D noted   that  she   has   been   treating   Applicant  since   June   2018   and   she   has
followed  all  treatment recommendations. Based  on  her treatment of Applicant,  she  did
not have  concerns regarding  her reliability, judgment, stability, and  trustworthiness and
did not have  reservations recommending  her for a  security clearance. (Tr. 48-50, 136-
141; AE  W, AE X, AE-AQ, AE-AR)
Applicant testified that a neurologist was consulted during her March 2022 hospital
admission  about  her  diagnosis  of  autoimmune  encephalopathy  steroid-responsive.
Applicant was discharged from the hospital on April 19, 2022. Applicant was treated with
antipsychotics  and  Lorazepam.  She  testified  that  when  she  was  discharged  from  the
hospital, she was struggling with short-term memory loss, but was uncertain if it was due
to  the  drugs  she  was  prescribed,  including  the  antipsychotic  drug.  She  said  she  had
similar symptoms in June 2021 after she stopped taking the drugs. The antipsychotic drug
was discontinued in July 2022. (Tr. 54-58, 119-125; AE-AQ)
Applicant testified that Dr. D believed her episodes were due to medical and not
psychiatric  causes.  Applicant  testified  that  in  April  2022  she  was  diagnosed  with
autoimmune encephalopathy that is steroid responsive. Applicant stated that she had not
yet been diagnosed with autoimmune encephalopathy with steroid-responsive when she
met with Dr. B. (Tr. 38-44)
Dr. D provided another letter from May 2022. She  confirmed that Applicant  was
admitted to the VA hospital in March 2022 with altered mental status and was transferred
to  another  hospital.  She  was  treated  with  antipsychotics  and  Lorazepam  for  possible
catatonia.  She  was  diagnosed  with  encephalopathy  associated  with  autoimmune
thyroiditis that responded to steroids. Dr. D expected Applicant to make a full recovery in
the next 9 to 12 months. She noted that the last episode Applicant had was three years
ago and it lasted 14 months. She said Applicant would be monitored and her medications
adjusted accordingly. (AE Y)
Applicant  admitted  that  until  July  2022  she  was  taking  prescribed  antipsychotic
drugs that were prescribed to her, presumably during her last admission to the hospital.
She explained that when she was admitted to the hospital in March 2022, she exhibited
an altered mental status that presented as confusion, catatonic behavior, and emotionally
detached. She said neither Dr. T nor Dr. D had been consulted while she was admitted.
(Tr. 73, 77)
Applicant testified that the course of treatment for encephalopathy was determined
to  be  immunosuppressant  theory.  In  September  2022,  she  had  not  yet  begun
immunosuppressant therapy to know if it is an effective treatment for her condition. There
are  four  drugs  potentially  to  treat  her  condition,  and  she  began  taking  one  in  October
2022. She continues to be on it and will need it or a similar drug for the rest of her life to
control her condition. (Tr. 143-146)
Dr. D provided an updated letter on January 11, 2023. She stated that Applicant
was  successfully  tapered  off  her  antipsychotics  and  mood  stabilizers.  Her  Lorazepam
daily dose has been decreased. She has followed up with her doctor for encephalopathy
associated with autoimmune thyroiditis that has successfully responded to steroids. She
noted Applicant’s mental status examination is intact as well as her character, judgment,
reliability, and integrity. The recommended treatment plan is for her to continue to take
immunosuppressive  medication,  which  will  help  prevent
the
encephalopathy. She should have a good prognosis if she continues to follow up as she
has  done  in  the  past.  Dr.  D  had  no  reservations  about  recommending  Applicant  for  a
security clearance. (Tr. 144; AE Z)
recurrence  of
Dr. T provided a letter from January 2023. She said she has been taking care of
Applicant  since  November  2018.  She  stated  that  Applicant  suffers  from  recurrent
encephalopathy,  which  is  presumed  to  be  autoimmune  secondary  to  Sjogren’s
syndrome.3  She   noted   that  her  condition   is  steroid   responsive.   She   is  on   a   daily
preventive  treatment  with  immunosuppressants  that  “should  limit  or  fully  prevent  any
recurrence of her encephalopathic manifestations.” Her condition  in  Dr. T’s  opinion  does
not affect her  character, integrity,  or judgment “when  it is under control, as it  currently is
and should not prevent her from continuing with her job.” (Tr. 53-54,  146; AE-AA)
Applicant  testified  that  her  recovery  is  going  well.  Dr.  T  has  eliminated  some
medications and is prescribing other medications for long-term care to prevent recurrence
of the issues related to autoimmune encephalopathy. Dr. T and Applicant are working out
a strategy for a long-term treatment plan. She and her husband are aware of what to look
out for if she begins experiencing symptoms that raise concerns that the encephalopathy
is  recurring.  She  noted  that  stress  is  a  factor  that  triggers  her  symptoms  and  the
autoimmune disorders. She acknowledges that she experienced anxiety and depressive
disorders in the past. She disagreed with Dr. B’s diagnosis of conversion  disorder. She
understands  that  Dr.  T  is  attempting  to  find  the  right  dosage  of  medication  for  her
continued treatment. She understands that this is an ongoing process. She explained that
her symptoms are documented in her medical records, but there is no way she can say
definitively that future problems will not recur. She does not think they will and trusts that
they  will  not,  but  she  cannot  say  with  certainty;  however,  she  knows  what  to  do  if
symptoms recur. (Tr. 57-67; 147-151)
At the time of her hearing, Applicant  had not yet been cleared to return to work  by
Dr. D. Applicant testified  that she  did not have  current  symptoms of short-term  memory
loss or altered  mental  state.  She  anticipated  seeing  Dr. T or another specialist for the  rest
of her life. She  also  said she  will  continue  to  see  Dr.  D until she  discharges  her and  will
follow  her  recommended   treatment   plan.   Applicant  is   not  on   antipsychotic  drugs   at
present.  She   further  testified   that  she   has  a   medical  diagnosis  that  has  psychiatric
symptoms   that   she   is being   treated   for.  Although   she   was  diagnosed   with   anxiety   and
depression, she  does not believe  it affects  her ability to  perform  her  job. Since  the  doctors
have  determined  the  underlying  cause  of  her symptoms,  she  has  noticed  an  improvement
in her condition  because  she  has  a  better  understanding  of her issues.  (Tr. 57-67,  147-
153)
Applicant provided numerous character letters. Many of them were written before
her most recent hospitalization in March 2022. She testified that she reached out to those
providing letters to make them aware of her hospitalization and inquired if any of them
wanted  to  revoke  their  letters.  None  of  them  wanted  to  revoke  their  letters.  She  is
described  as  dynamic,  confident,  generous,  thoughtful,  composed,  professional,  fair,
strong,  steady,  resilient,  determined,  honorably,  disciplined,  honest,  loyal,  smart,
talented,  positive,  compassionate,  patriotic,  reliable,  respected,  trustworthy,  and
responsible. She possesses technical, leadership and business-related skills. Her past
work performance is described as exceptional. She possesses a high level of trust and
integrity and a strong work ethic. (AE A through AE R, AE-AB)
3  Sjogren syndrome is an autoimmune disorder in which immune cells attack and destroy the glands that
produce tears and saliva. https://rarediseases.info.nih.gov/diseases/1025/sjogren-syndrome
Medical Record Review
A  review of Applicant’s medical records from  2018  through  2022  reflect that  in April
2018  it was noted  that  she  had  a  long  history of encephalopathy with  unclear origin  and
a   diagnosis  of  acute   encephalopathy  secondary  to   sepsis.  She   was  experiencing
confusion at the time.
On  March  30,  2022,  Applicant  was  involuntarily  hospitalized  at  the  VA  hospital.
Her medical records noted that she had a history of present illness for depression, anxiety,
Sjogren’s  disorder,  seizure  disorder,  hypothyroidism,  PCOS  (polycystic  ovarian
syndrome) and neurogenic bladder. She was admitted to inpatient psychiatry for acute
psychosis. She was placed in restraints due to disruptive behavior that posed a risk of
injury to herself and others. She was climbing on the windowsill, removing her hospital
scrubs,  pacing,  banging  on  a  chair  and  bedside  table  and  unable  to  follow  simple
directions. Later, she admitted to the medical staff that she had been bad, and she was
responsible for the use of restraints but was unable to give a coherent answer as to what
she meant but acknowledged there was a safety issue. She reported seeing things that
were not present in reality. The medical records reflect that there was concern from Dr. T
that  her  symptoms  were  the  result  of  medical  problems,  and  she  was  transferred  to  a
medical
floor.  Multiple  doctors  considered  Dr.  T’s  diagnosis  of  autoimmune
encephalopathy and recommended further medical testing. A VA psychiatrist noted that
Applicant  was  transferred  to  the  medical  floor  for  a  workup  for  the  medical  etiology  of
symptoms which was unrevealing. Other neurologists discussed the use of steroids on
patients suspected of having immune mediated encephalopathy. Worsening psychosis
was  discussed with  the  neurology  team, and  it  was  felt that a  lumbar puncture  should
precede a steroid trial. This procedure was declined by Applicant’s family. The VA doctors
considered Dr. T’s diagnosis of autoimmune encephalopathy but none of the diagnostic
tests confirmed abnormalities. She was treated with high dose steroids but the precise
cause for her medical problems are unclear. (AE-AR)
According   to   the   medical  records  when   Applicant  was  discharged   from   the   VA
hospital on  April 9,  2022.  Dr. P’s diagnosis on  discharge  was  acute  psychosis. Tests had
been  performed  with  no  acute  findings. Dr. P  noted  that  if there was  a  plausible  diagnosis
for  metabolic/autoimmune/Hashimoto’s   encephalopathy  then   he   supported   treatment
with  high  dose  steroids, but he  did not find  either clinically or biochemically that Applicant
had   encephalopathy.   He  recommended   ancillary  testing   to   formally  diagnose   Anti-N-
methyl D-aspartate  (NMDC) encephalitis or to  rule  out an  infectious source.  He noted  the
family refused  the  procedure of lumbar puncture to  make  this determination,  so  neurology
empirically  treated   her  with   high   dose   steroids  for a   working   diagnosis  of  autoimmune
encephalitis. (AE- AO,  AE-AR)
On April 12, 2022, Applicant was again hospitalized. Her prior history noted that
she had seizure disorder, anxiety, depression, and prior reported encephalitis and recent
multiple hospitalizations for decline in cognitive status and altered mental status. At the
time  of admission,  she  was  having  ongoing altered  mental status  issues.  The  medical
record again noted that there was suspicion of possible Hashimoto’s encephalopathy and
neurology had recommended she be placed on high dose steroids. It was also noted that
acute  encephalopathy  had  an  unclear  etiology.  She  was  subsequently  discharged  on
April 19, 2022. (AE-AQ)
