Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked since March 2019. He is once divorced. He was married from 2005 until 2014.
He has been remarried since October 2017. He has two stepchildren, ages 26 and 23.
He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2015. (Tr. 17-19, 53; GE 1, 2; AE A, C, J-L)
In 2017, Applicant purchased a ring for his wife that contained a moissanite main
stone  for  about  $2,000  from  a  jeweler  who  is  an  acquaintance  of  his.  When  he
purchased the ring, he knew the main stone was moissanite and not a diamond. At the
time  of  purchase,  the  jeweler’s  estimated  replacement  value  for  the  ring  was  about
$2,600. In February 2017, Applicant insured two rings under a personal property policy
with an insurance provider (Insurance Provider). Neither of the rings he covered under
this  insurance  policy  contained  a  main  stone  that  was  moissanite.  (Tr.  20-23,  45-53;
Answer; GE 1-9, 14)
In  February 2019,  Applicant’s  wife  lost the moissanite  ring at  a theme park. On
February 8, 2019, pursuant to his personal property insurance coverage, Applicant filed
a  fraudulent  insurance  claim  with  the  Insurance  Provider  to  cover the  loss  of  the  ring.
He falsely claimed that the ring his wife lost contained a main stone that was a two-carat
diamond  and  falsely  claimed  its  value  at  about  $18,000.  At  the  time,  he  knew  that  he
was  misleading  the  Insurance  Provider  by  inflating  the  value  of  the  lost  ring.  The
Insurance  Provider  suspected  that  the  lost  ring  was  a  moissanite  ring  rather  than  a
diamond  ring,  so  it  asked  him  to  provide  the  original  purchase  receipt  for  the  ring.
Applicant  forged  the  ring’s  purchase  receipt  to  further  his  false  claim.  The  receipt  he
forged claimed that he paid about $19,000 for a two-carat diamond ring. The Insurance
Provider also obtained a copy of the actual receipt and valuation of the moissanite ring
from  the  seller.  In  April  2019,  when  the  Insurance  Provider  confronted  him  with  the
valuation  discrepancy  between  the  moissanite  ring  he  lost  and  the  two-carat  diamond
ring he claimed he lost, he falsely claimed that he did not know the main stone on the
ring he lost was not a diamond. He also later changed his story and told the Insurance
Provider that he made a mistake and made a claim for the wrong ring. (Tr. 20-23, 45-53;
Answer; GE 1-9, 14)
The  Insurance  Provider  referred  the  claim  to  the  relevant  state  insurance  fraud
division,  and  it  investigated  the  matter.  Based  upon  the  insurance  fraud  division’s
investigation, on June 26, 2019, the relevant state prosecutor’s office charged Applicant
with fraudulent insurance act, a felony, and forgery, also a felony.  In September 2019,
he pleaded guilty to lesser misdemeanor charges of false or fraudulent insurance claim
and forgery. In November 2019, the court convicted him of these misdemeanor charges,
sentenced  him  to  544  days  in  jail  (all  suspended),  placed  him  on  probation  for  two
years,  fined  him  $1,400,  and  required  him  to  take  a  moral  reconation  therapy  course.
He  also  must  notify  the  relevant  state  insurance  department  before  filing  any  future
insurance  claim.  He  has  satisfied  all  the  sentencing  requirements.  Before  this
conviction, he had no prior criminal history. (Tr. 20-23, 45-53; Answer; GE 1-9, 14)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  an  insurance  claims  adjuster  with  the
Insurance  Provider  told  him  that  he  should  inflate  the  value  of  the  diamond  in  his
engagement ring, because the Insurance Provider purchases replacement diamonds at
wholesale value. He further testified that the claims adjuster informed him that inflating
the value of the diamond in the engagement ring would make him whole for his loss. He
did  not  provide  this  excuse  for  inflating  the  value  of  the  ring  during  the  Insurance
Provider’s investigation or the state insurance fraud division’s investigation. He claimed
that  he  may  have  made  this  claim  to  the  judge  when  he  was  sentenced,  but  he  also
testified  that  he  could  not  recall  if  he  did  or  not.  During  his  testimony,  he  could  not
adequately  explain  why  he  discussed  the  valuation  of  a  diamond  with  the  claims
adjuster when he knew the ring he lost contained a moissanite stone. The first time this
explanation of following the claims adjuster’s advice to overvalue appears in the record
is  on  his  August  2020  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations  Processing  (e-QIP).
He  provided  no  corroborating  evidence  for  this  explanation.  He  could  not  provide  the
claims  adjuster’s  name.  Based  upon  my  observation  of  him  during  his  testimony,  the
late timing of this explanation, the lack of corroboration, and his inconsistent excuses to
justify  his  behavior,  I  find  his  explanation  that  a  claims  adjuster  for  the  Insurance
Provider advised him to  inflate the value of the  ring lacks credibility. (Tr. 20-23, 45-53;
Answer;  GE  1-9,  14)  Any  adverse  information  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be
considered for disqualification purposes; however, it may be considered in assessing an
applicant’s credibility; in evaluating an applicant’s evidence of extenuation, mitigation, or
changed  circumstances;  in  considering  whether  the  applicant  has  demonstrated
successful  rehabilitation;  and  in  applying  the  whole-person  concept.  (ISCR  Case  No.
15-07369 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017)).
Applicant’s  former  brother-in-law  opened,  placed  balances  on,  and  became
delinquent on  numerous  financial accounts  in  Applicant’s name without  his permission
or  consent.  There  were  15  delinquent  accounts  totaling  about  $28,000.  These
fraudulently opened accounts are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 2.p.  Applicant claimed
that he first became aware of these accounts in early 2019. However, he did not realize
that his former brother-in-law was responsible until sometime after he submitted his e-
QIP  in  August  2020,  but  before  his  security  interview  in  April  2021.  He  confronted  his
brother-in-law, who confessed to the identity theft. Applicant did not file a police report
because he did not want his former brother-in-law to face criminal charges. Instead, he
and his brother-in-law have either paid the relevant SOR accounts or are in the process
of repaying them. All the relevant SOR accounts have either been resolved or are being
resolved.  Applicant  believes  that  his  former  brother-in-law  found  Applicant’s  personal
information  in  Applicant’s  house.  He  now  secures  his  personal  information  in  a  safe,
and,  other  than  dealing  with  these  accounts,  he  no  longer  associates  with  his  former
brother-in-law. (Tr. 23-37, 40-44; Answer; GE 1-2, 10-13, 15; AE M-S)
Applicant  had  a  judgment  entered  against  him  in  2018  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $1,086  that  consisted  of  overpayment  of  unemployment  benefits.  The
Government listed this debt in SOR ¶ 2.q. He satisfied this judgment in January 2019.
(Tr. 36-37; Answer; GE 12)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  accepts  full  responsibility  for  his  actions.  He  claimed
that  he  knows  what  he  did  was  wrong,  he  has  learned  his  lesson,  and  he  is  now
trustworthy  and  shows  better  judgment.  He  provided  character  reference  letters  from
acquaintances and colleagues who attested to his dedication, professionalism, honesty,
reliability,  and  integrity.  Some  of  the  individuals  who  wrote  these  character  reference
letters  hold  a  security  clearance.  He  has  volunteered  his  time  helping  an  organization
devoted to assisting those with mental illness and has been active in his church. He has
received  promotions  and  performance  awards  at  work,  and  he  has  completed  training
for securing protected information. He is also working on obtaining a master’s degree in
business administration. (Tr. 20-23, 37-39, 49-50; AE A-J)
