Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that in 1999 or 2000, Applicant was arrested
and charged with driving under the influence (DUI), for which he was placed on probation
for  one  year  (SOR  1.a);  and  that  in  June  2003,  he  was  charged  with  being  under  the
influence of a controlled substance (SOR 1.b). It also was alleged that in December 2003,
he was charged with vehicle theft, burglary, and hit-and-run resulting in death or injury,
for which he was sentenced to three years in jail (SOR 1.c); and that in August 2005, he
was charged and convicted of receiving stolen property, for which he served 120 days in
jail and was placed on probation for 36 months (SOR 1.d). The SOR further alleged that
in March 2006, Applicant participated in a murder by stabbing the victim and helping to
dispose of the body (SOR 1.e). It was further alleged that in May 2016, he was charged
and later convicted of petty theft and placed on probation for 36 months (SOR 1.f); and
that in December 2016, he was charged and later convicted of trespassing and larceny,
for which he was placed on probation for nearly 12 months (SOR 1.g).
Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations without comment. In addition to the
facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of relevant fact.
Applicant is a 42-year-old long haul truck driver employed by a defense contractor.
He has worked for his current employer since November 2020. He and his wife, who is
his driving partner, have been married since July 2017. They currently live in State A after
relocating in 2016 from State B, where Applicant grew up.  They completed their driver
training  and  received  their  commercial  driver’s  licenses  in  State  A  between  June  and
August 2018. Thereafter, they ran their own trucking business, while also driving for at
least three other companies. They stopped driving independently in October 2020 when
it became difficult, in part because of the COVID pandemic, to get enough loads to cover
their insurance. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 31 – 33, 35)
Applicant was underage when he was arrested for DUI in either 1999 or 2000. He
had been at a party with friends and claims to have had little to drink. He was stopped at
a police checkpoint on the way home and administered a breathalyzer test. It showed he
had  alcohol  in  his  system,  albeit  far  less  than  the  legal  limit  for  intoxicated  driving;
however, because he was under 21 years old, he was charged with DUI. The court fined
him, required him to  complete an alcohol safety and awareness program  (ASAP), and
placed him on probation for one year. (Answer; Tr. 39 – 41)
As alleged in SOR 1.b, on June 9, 2003, Applicant was charged with being under
the influence of a controlled substance. Aside from an entry in the FBI report admitted as
GX 3, little else is known about what the substance was or under what circumstances he
came to be charged. Nor is there any information about the disposition of the charge. In
his personal subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator in December 2020,
he denied the arrest. In response to the SOR, he admitted the allegation; however, based
on  his  testimony,  it  appeared  that  he  was  unclear  about  what  he  was  admitting.  At
hearing, he testified he does not specifically recall such an incident, but allowed that he
“was probably under the influence at the time of one of [his other arrests].” (Answer; GX
2; GX 3; Tr. 41 – 45)
One  night  in  December 2003,  Applicant  was  stranded  without a  way  home  and
found an unlocked car in which he spent the night. The next morning, he saw someone
leave a different car running unattended and stole it. As he was driving away, he crashed
into a telephone pole and left the scene, only to be apprehended a short time later. He
was convicted of vehicle theft and hit and run, for which he was sentenced to 36 months
in jail, but served only about three months and spent the rest of his sentence on probation.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 3; GX 8; Tr. 45 – 47)
In August 2005, Applicant was arrested for having vehicle registration tabs from
another car. He had stolen them a few months earlier and put them on his own car. He
did so because he could not afford to renew his vehicle registration. He subsequently was
charged with felony receipt of stolen property and forging or altering a vehicle registration.
He was convicted of receipt of stolen property and sentenced to 120 days in jail. On March
2,  2006,  after  his  incarceration,  he  was  placed  on  another  36  months  of  probation
because he had violated his earlier probation from his December 2003 arrest. (Answer;
GX 2; GX 3; GX 5; Tr. 48 – 49)
In  March  2006,  Applicant  began  a  live-in  relationship  with  a  woman  (S)  he  met
after he was released from jail. The couple lived in a recreational vehicle (RV) on property
owned by C. At some point, S also developed a romantic relationship with V, someone
known  for  his  violent  behavior.  S  and  V  started  taking  money  from  C’s  bank  account.
Unbeknownst  to  Applicant,  S  and  V  then  conspired  to  kill  C  to  cover  up  their  crimes
against  C.  Applicant  saw  S  and  V  stab  C  to  death  outside  the  RV  on  C’s  property.
Applicant feared V, who threatened Applicant with death if he did not also stab C even
though  he  was  dead.  V  also  forced  Applicant  to  bury  the  body,  and  threatened  to  kill
Applicant if he told anyone what had happened. The police eventually became aware that
C was missing. After locating the body, Applicant, S, and V were arrested and charged
with  murder.  Applicant  was  incarcerated  for  six  years  awaiting  trial.  In  2012,  he  was
acquitted in a separate jury trial, and he testified against S and V, both of whom were
convicted and are currently serving life sentences. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 49 – 63)
In  May 2016, Applicant  stole an  electronic device from  a  department store. He was
stopped by the store’s security personnel and returned the item. He then fled the scene
in his  car, but  store security recorded  his license  plate, and  he  was  promptly  arrested.
Thereafter, while awaiting  prosecution  for a  shoplifting  charge, he and  his wife moved to
their   current  state   of  residence.  In   December  2016,  in  State   A,  Applicant  and   his  wife
were   arrested   and   charged   with   trespassing,  burglary  of   an   unoccupied   dwelling,   and
larceny. Around  one  a.m.  on  December 20, 2016, Applicant and  his wife  were  together
when,  over  her objections, he  stole  a  tire  from  a  dumpster  on  the  property of  an  auto  parts
store to  replace  one  of  the  tires  on  his  car that had  failed.  It  appears that this arrest and
his May  2016   shoplifting   charge   were   resolved   together by  a   court   in  State   A.  In   April
2019, he  agreed to  a plea deal whereby,  he was given 36  months of  probation, which he
completed in April 2022. (Answer; GX  2; GX  3; GX 4; GX 6; GX 7; Tr. 63  –  70)
After  their  arrests  in  December  2016,  and  after  brief  periods  of  pre-trial
confinement  in  2017,  Applicant  and  his  wife  found  themselves  homeless.  They
subsequently  found  food  and  shelter  a  nearby  Christian  ministry.  They  stayed  on  to
volunteer to help other homeless persons and have been active in that ministry ever since.
Applicant credits the ministry with helping him get back on his feet and get started in the
trucking industry. Two other members of that organization testified that Applicant is now
reformed and committed to the  ministry’s cause, which  he  and  his  wife  espouse  when
they  are  on  the  road  for  long  stretches.  The  witnesses  recommended  Applicant  for  a
position of trust based on their assessments of him as reliable and honest. (Tr. 34, 36 –
38, 77 – 86, 97 – 105)
For his part, Applicant blames his long history of misconduct on being young and
stupid. A friend from high school, who has known Applicant for over 25 years, testified for
Applicant and believes him to be reliable and someone who follows the rules. He, too,
remarked on conduct Applicant engaged in when he was younger and believes that he
now is more mature. Applicant’s wife testified that she has seen growth in Applicant since
they met, but she acknowledged that someone over 30 years old should not use “young
and dumb” as an excuse for the decisions they make. (Tr. 87 – 96, 105 – 126)
Applicant’s employer states that he is a reliable employee. His sister and stepfather
also support Applicant’s request for a clearance, stating that he is hardworking, reliable,
and has learned from his mistakes. (AX A and B)
