Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.j and 1.l through 1.o.
He denied SOR ¶ 1.k. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  59  years old.  He  served in  the military from  1983 to 2003  and  was
honorably retired. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2012 and a master’s degree in 2014.
He was married from 1987 to 2011 and has four adult children between the ages of 34
and 27. He has worked for his present employer, a federal contractor, since July 2004.
The SOR alleges that Applicant owes $37,604 in delinquent student loans (¶¶ 1.a
through 1.j) and three miscellaneous debts that total $241 (SOR ¶¶ 1.k though 1.m) He
admits he owes all of these debts, except  SOR  ¶  1.k  ($127).  This debt  is reported on
Applicant’s October 2021 credit report. It is not reported on his March 2022 credit report.
In addition, Applicant admits that he failed to timely file his 2019 and 2020 federal and
state income tax returns. (Item 2)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in August 2021. In it,
he  disclosed  that  he  failed  to  file  his  2019  federal income  tax  return.  He  stated  it  was
because he was unable to obtain an income tax statement from the military through its
computer  system  for  his  retirement  pay  so  he  could  file  accurately.  He  attempted  to
contact  the  appropriate  agency,  but  was  unable  to  talk  with  a  person  or  reset  his
password. He requested a password be sent by mail, but had not received one. He also
disclosed his student loans were delinquent and he was working to resolve them. He said
that he had “withholdings from paycheck that have been suspended right now because
of COVID.” He indicated that the payments were made through garnishment. (Item 3)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  November  2021.  He
confirmed  to  the  investigator  that  he  had  not  filed  his  2019  or  2020  federal  and  state
income  tax  returns  because  he  could  not  access  the  online  system  to  retrieve  the
information he needed about his military pension. He said he continued to attempt to use
the  telephone  and  online  system  unsuccessfully.  He  told  the  investigator  he  would
continue to attempt to obtain the information he needed but did not know when it would
be successful. He believed he owed about $500 in federal income taxes for each tax year.
(Item 4)
Applicant told the government investigator that in 2011 after his divorce, he went
from a dual income household to a single income. He said he was solely responsible for
raising  the  children  and  maintaining  a  household.  He  lives  paycheck  to  paycheck  and
receives a military pension. He intended to satisfy all of his debts. (Item 4)
In  April  2022,  Applicant  completed  government  interrogatories.  In  them,  he
disclosed  his  2019  and  2020  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  were  not  filed.  He
reiterated that he was unable to file them because he was unable to obtain his income
tax statement from the military and the telephone number he was given was to a general
switchboard, so he could not make an in-person appointment. He did not know if he owed
taxes for these tax years. He did not have an installment agreement with the IRS. (Item
4)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations  that  his  student
loans were delinquent. Some of his loans are through the Department of Education (DOE)
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e) and others are with a private creditor (¶¶ 1.f through 1.j). On
his March 2022 credit report, the DOE and the private creditor loans are reflected as being
in a collection status. His DOE loans show his last payments were in January 2018. The
others reflect they have been delinquent since 2016. (Items 2, 4, 5, 6)
Applicant told the investigator that in 2014, he was paying $500 a month on his
student loans and in 2015 the creditor wanted $1,000, which he could not afford, but he
continued  to  pay  $500.  In  his  personal  financial  statement,  provided  with  his
interrogatories, he lists a monthly payment of $500 for his student loans. Applicant has
not provided any documentary proof as to the current status of the alleged student loans,
past payments, or a payment agreement. Due to the pandemic, there is a moratorium on
student loan payments. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he did not provide any updated information
about recent efforts to resolve his tax issues, status of student loans, or resolution of his
other  delinquent  debts.  He  explained  he  is  doing  his  best  to  overcome  his  financial
problems and does not believe it should have an impact on his eligibility to hold a security
clearance. He has not had any security violations  in the past. He said he would never
knowingly disclose national security sensitive information. He does not live extravagantly
and believes his years of military and government service should be considered. (AE A)
