Applicant  is  33  years  old.  He  married  in  March  2020.  His  wife  passed  away
unexpectedly in March 2022, leaving him a widower with an 18-month-old child. Applicant
earned a bachelor’s degree in 2012 and a master’s degree in 2017. He has worked for a
federal contractor since 2014 and is now a manager. He applied for a security clearance
in November 2014 (2014 e-QIP), and the CAF granted him national security eligibility in
January 2015. He seeks to retain his eligibility in connection with his employment. (Tr. at
17-20; GE 1 at 5, 10-12, 17, 20-21, 35-37; GE 3; GE 4.)
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a
clearance  because  of  his  recent  drug  involvement.  Specifically,  the  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about June 2012 through March
2022  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  The  CAF  also  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.a  that  Applicant  used
marijuana  after  he  had  been  granted  a  security  clearance.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
admitted the allegation under this guideline. (Answer at 1.)
In his 2022 e-QIP, Applicant disclosed that he used marijuana “very sparingly” in
the past seven years. He wrote that he used marijuana during that period about five times.
He disclosed further that his most recent use (two or three of about five times) was in
March 2022 after his wife died suddenly on March 1, 2022. He used the marijuana to help
him sleep at a time of extreme stress. (GE 1 at 33-34.)
Applicant testified that he had first experimented with marijuana one or two times
during  the  period  after  college  and  before  he  began  working  for  his  current  employer
(2012 to 2014). He smoked marijuana with friends who shared their marijuana with him.
He also smoked marijuana during the period 2015 to early 2022, while he held a security
clearance. He does not recall the specifics of these occasions because it was a number
of years ago when he was younger, but he is certain that his use of marijuana was very
limited during that period before his wife died. His best estimate is that he used marijuana
one or two times during that period. (Tr. at 21-23, 25-27.)
Applicant explained that the cause of his  wife’s  death was the result of taking a
medication that  she thought  was  a prescription medication.  He experienced  significant
trauma from this loss and the new reality that he was the widowed father of a young child
and responsible for both his child and a demanding full-time job. He had difficulty sleeping.
He tried non-prescription sleep aids, but they did not help him, and they had side effects
that  were  difficult  for  him  to  handle.  On  two  or  three  occasions  he  smoked  marijuana
before trying to sleep. He purchased the marijuana legally under the laws of his state of
residence (State A). The marijuana gave him some needed rest. (Tr. at 24-30.)
Applicant  quickly  decided,  however,  that  he  did  not  want  to  continue  to  use
marijuana  for  this  purpose  because  he  knew  that  its  use  was  inconsistent  with  his
responsibilities as someone with access to classified information. He concluded that using
marijuana  was  a  mistake.  He  did  not  want  to  have  his  use  of  marijuana  “spiral”  into
constant use to self-medicate his stress and grief. Because of the circumstances of his
wife’s  death,  he  had  no  interest  in  taking  any  prescription  medication  to  help  with  his
sleep. He forced himself to find non-drug remedies for his stress in the form of meditation,
therapy, breathing exercises, physical exercise, eating better, and time with his child. He
used these techniques to calm his mind so he could function during the day and sleep at
night. He described his path towards emotional recovery as an effort to better himself. He
testified that he has no intention to use marijuana or any illegal drug in the future because
he wants to strive to better himself and to set a proper example for his child. (Tr. at 28-
32.)
Applicant has not used any marijuana or other illegal form of drugs since his brief
experience  immediately  after his  wife’s  death.  After  the  hearing,  he  provided  a  written
statement in which he wrote that he has no intention to use illegal drugs in the future and
acknowledged that that usage of illegal drugs would constitute a basis for the automatic
revocation of his security clearance. He no longer associates with anyone who uses illegal
drugs. (Tr. at 31-32; AE A.)
Paragraph 2  - Guideline  E, Personal Conduct
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible
for clearance because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment,
an unwillingness to follow rules and regulations, lack of candor, and dishonesty. The CAF
alleged that Applicant falsified his answers to the question in Section 23 of the 2014 e-
QIP  about  prior  illegal  drug  use.  (SOR  ¶  2.a.)  The  SOR  also  cross-alleged  under  this
guideline the Guideline H allegations described above. (SOR ¶ 2.b.)
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations in subparagraph 2.b and did not
respond  to  the  falsification  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  2.a.  Accordingly,  I  regard  his  lack  of
response to the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a as a denial of the allegation. (Answer at 2.)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted that he deliberately provided a false answer to
the question in Section 23 of the 2014 e-QIP. He testified that he was scared at the time
to admit his prior limited use of marijuana because it could make him ineligible to work for
the Government contractor that had offered him his first serious job after his completion
of college. He was 24 years old. (Tr. at 23-24.)
Applicant explained that when he prepared his 2022 e-QIP, he knew that he had
made a serious mistake in failing to disclose his drug use prior to November 2014 in his
2014 e-QIP. He decided that he should fully disclose his past use of marijuana, including
his post-college drug use and his recent use of marijuana after the death of his wife about
three months earlier. He  reasoned that he had matured since 2014 when he was  very
young and that working at a DoD contractor had taught him the importance of personal
integrity. He also believes that being fully candid with the Government was an important
step  in  his  healing  process  following  the  loss  of  his  wife.  He  is  determined  “to  better
himself”  so that he is the best person he can be. He decided he needed to accept the
consequences of his past mistakes using marijuana and not disclosing his prior use in his
2014 e-QIP. (Tr. at 32-33, 36, 41.)
Applicant understands that the purpose of his 2022 e-QIP is to seek eligibility for
a  Top  Secret  clearance.  He  fully  appreciates  the  responsibilities  that  such  eligibility
carries with it and the level of personal integrity that accompanies such a clearance. He
intends to live a healthy and honest lifestyle going forward. He is proud of his hard work
throughout  his  college  years  and  post-graduate  education.  He  has  been  successful
working at his employer since 2014 and has been rewarded with several promotions. He
hopes to continue his stellar career working for a DoD contractor. (Tr. at 32-33, 36, 41.)
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence
After the hearing, Applicant submitted his performance evaluations since 2017. He
has been  rated  in  each  year as  a  “excellent  performer”  or  a  “successful performer. He
has earned promotions since his first year at the company in 2014 with increasing levels
of responsibility. (AE B – AE H, AE N.) Applicant also submitted four character reference
letters  from  work  colleagues,  including  a  former  supervisor,  and  a  neighbor.  They  all
praise Applicant’s dedication to his work and his reliable and trustworthy character. (AE I
through AE L.)
In a written statement submitted after the hearing, Applicant wrote that he does not
intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  and  acknowledges  that  any  such  use  would  be
grounds for the revocation of his national security eligibility. He also wrote  that he has
volunteered to receive random drug testing by his employer. He noted that his illegal drug
use, both before he worked for this contractor and held a clearance, and after, occurred
when he was quite young and was very infrequent. His usage of marijuana after the death
of his wife was also quite limited and occurred during a brief period when the crisis of his
wife’s  sudden  death  dramatically  changed  his  life.  He  was  traumatized.  He  has  since
worked hard to rebuild his life and commit himself to living a healthy, drug-free lifestyle.
He believes that his therapy, his stress-reducing exercises, and time with his young child
have all dramatically improved his life since the low point he experienced in March 2022.
(AE O.)
