Applicant  is  a  25-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  June  2019.  He  received  a  high  school  diploma  in  2015.  He  has  never
been  married  and  has  no  children.  He  served  on  active  duty  with  the  Army  from  April
2016  until  May  2019  when  he  received  a  general  discharge  for  misconduct.  (Items  3,
10)
Within the last five years, Applicant began having issues with alcohol. When he
returned from Army deployments, he was finishing a bottle of tequila in one or two days
to deal with stress. In June or July 2018, after speaking about his alcohol use with his
non-commissioned  officer  (NCO),  he  enrolled  in  the  Army’s  Substance  Use  Disorder
Clinical Care (SUDCC). His NCO gave him the choice of self-enrolling in SUDCC, or his
NCO  would  refer  him.  While  he  was  enrolled  in  SUDCC,  he  was  required  to  abstain
from consuming alcohol. He met with his SUDCC counselor once every two weeks from
June  or  July  2018  until  he  stopped  his  SUDCC  treatment  in  May  2019  when  he  was
discharged  from  the  Army.  He  provided  no  evidence  that  he  has  undergone  any
alcohol-related  treatment  since  May  2019.  He  did  not  complete  the  SUDCC  treatment
program, but in October 2018, he completed a portion of that treatment called Prime for
Life. There is no evidence as to what treatment or counseling the Prime for Life portion
of the SUDCC entailed. (Items 2, 3, 6, 9, 10)
In  about  November  2018,  while  he  was  attending  SUDCC  treatment  and  was
required to abstain from alcohol, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving under
the influence of alcohol (DUI) in State A. He had been consuming wine, tequila, and rum
at  a  social  gathering  until  he  blacked  out.  While  he  was  blacked  out  from  being
intoxicated, he drove his car and “wrecked the car between a tree and a boat dock near
a lake.”  Police gave him a breathalyzer test some hours after he had stopped drinking
and he had a .13 blood alcohol content (BAC) percentage. He spent two days in jail. As
part  of  a  plea  agreement,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  a  lesser  charge  of  reckless  driving.
Applicant  paid  fines  and  attended  a  court-ordered  Mothers  Against  Drunk  Driving
(MADD) meeting. He also received an official memorandum of reprimand from his Army
command.  He  continued  to  attend  treatment  with  SUDCC  after  his  November  2018
arrest, when he was again required to abstain from alcohol. (Items 2-6, 9, 10)
In  about  March  2019,  while  Applicant  was  undergoing  SUDCC  treatment  and
required to abstain from alcohol, he was arrested and charged with DUI in State B. He
had  been  drinking  alcohol  at  a  cookout  the  day  before  his  arrest.  He  claimed  that  he
initially did not know the punch he was drinking at the cookout was laced with alcohol,
but  he  acknowledged  that  he  realized  it  had  alcohol  in  it  that  night  when  he  became
intoxicated.  The  next morning,  he  drove  to work  on  base  and  was  stopped  by  military
police  for  swerving.  He  claimed  that  he  was  trying  to  avoid  potholes  because  he  was
driving a friend’s car. He failed field sobriety tests and was issued a breathalyzer test at
about 9:00 a.m., the results of which were a .13 BAC percentage. He pleaded guilty to
DUI. The court sentenced him to 12 months of probation, suspended his driver’s license
in State B, and ordered him to perform 24 hours of community service. Because he was
intoxicated while on duty, the Army charged him under Article 112 of the Uniform Code
of Military Justice (UCMJ). On April 9, 2019, he was found guilty of that UCMJ charge.
As  a  result  of  his  failure  to  follow  SUDCC  requirements,  his  DUIs,  and  his  UCMJ
charges, he was administratively separated from the Army in May 2019 for misconduct.
Despite being alleged in the SOR, there is no evidence that Applicant’s March 2019 DUI
involved personal injury. (Items 2, 3, 7-10)
(alcohol)
from  his
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  diagnosed  with
alcohol  use  disorder  (moderate)  and  that  the  treatment  providers  at  SUDCC  advised
him  to  abstain  from  alcohol.  In  February  2020,  he  stated  that  he  planned  to  remove
drinking
the  SUDCC
life.  Notwithstanding
recommendation,  and  his  earlier  plans  to  abstain  from  alcohol,  in  his  response  to  the
SOR, he stated that he believes that he can continue consuming alcohol in a modified
manner  because  quitting  “cold  turkey”  is  not  the  best  option  for  everyone.  Applicant
claimed  that  he  drinks  beer  about  two  to  three  times  per  month.  He  has  also  claimed
that he drinks about one or two beers two to three times every two weeks. He claimed
that he tries to stay away from liquor. He cites to his three years of not having alcohol-
related legal issues as evidence that his modified consumption plan is working. He also
claimed that he was named employee of the month at his job, he has been able to buy a
house, and he has no financial problems. (Items 2, 9, 10)
this  diagnosis,
In  about  August  2018,  Applicant  was  charged  with  larceny  in  State  B  when  he
took an audio cable from a store without paying for it. He claimed he attached the cable
to see if it fit his phone while he was in the store, accidentally put the cable in his pocket
when he was done using it, forgot that the cable was in his pocket, and then walked out
of  the  store  without  paying  for  it.  The  charges  against  him  were  ultimately  dropped.
Applicant
larceny  charge  on  his  July  2019  Electronic
Questionnaires  for  Investigations  Processing  (e-QIP),  despite  being  required  to  do  so.
He  claimed  that  he  did  not  think  he  needed  to  include  it  on  his  e-QIP  because  the
charges  were  dismissed.  He divulged other derogatory information on his e-QIP,  such
as his two DUIs. (Items 2, 10)
to  disclose
failed
this
