Applicant is a 37-year-old Pre-Sales Solution Architect with a defense contractor.
He  has  worked  for  the  company  since  2015.  He  is  recently  married.  Applicant  has
received a bachelor of science degree and a master’s degree. He is seeking to retain a
security  clearance  granted  in  approximately 2011  in  connection  with  his  work  with  the
DoD. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 25; Tr. 43-45, 52.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has used illegal drugs. Applicant admitted allegation1.a under this paragraph
with explanations. He denied 1.b.
Applicant began using marijuana in edible form sometime between April 2017 and
mid-2018. (Tr. 17-20.)
He stated in his e-QIP of March 8, 2021:
Shortly after [State  A] legalized  recreational marijuana  I tried  it. I was always
scared  of illegal drugs. I have  experimented  with  it numerous times while in
states where it has been  legalized. I typically take  edibles that are created
for specific  uses  to  support better sleep, creative  thinking, stress  relief and
social anxiety. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 23.)
Concerning his statements on the questionnaire Applicant testified, “I wanted to be
truthful, and frank and open and honest. All of those things in this Questionnaire. I felt the
most important thing was honesty.” (Tr. 19.)
Applicant would use marijuana about once or twice a week until August 2018. At
that  time, he moved  to  State  B,  where  it  was  still illegal to  purchase  or use marijuana
under state law. Applicant abstained from any marijuana use during the period he lived in
State B. Instead of marijuana he used legal supplements to help him sleep. (Government
Exhibit 1 at Section 11; Government Exhibit 2 at 4, 8-9; Tr. 20-21.)
Applicant  returned  to  State  A  in  November  2020.  He  once  again  purchased
marijuana in pill form from state-approved stores and used it two to three times a week
until approximately June 2021, when he stopped all marijuana use. Altogether Applicant
used marijuana in pill or edible form about 50 times. Applicant has abstained from any
marijuana use since that time and evinced a credible intent not to use  marijuana in the
future. He has returned to using legal supplements as a sleep aid and finds them effective.
(Tr. 18-22, 26-29, 49-51.)
As  stated,  Applicant  received  a  security  clearance  in  2011.  That clearance  was
active during the time Applicant was using marijuana. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section
25; Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 43-45.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness,  or
unreliability. Applicant denied the single allegation under this paragraph because he felt
it was too vague.
2.a. The  Government alleges in  this subparagraph  that the  Applicant’s drug  use
history, as set forth under Paragraph 1, above, is also cognizable under Guideline E.
Mitigation
Applicant  is  viewed  as  a  solid  performer  by  his  employer.  He  has  repeatedly
received recognition for his job performance. Applicant is respected by his coworkers and
supervisors. (Applicant Exhibits B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K; Tr. 33-36, 38-40.)
Applicant has been singled out to be part of a special program by his employer.
This  program  is  limited  to  a  small  percentage  of  people  throughout  the  company.
(Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 36-37.)
