Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  explanations.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36  years old. He married  in 2005  and  divorced  in 2007. There were  no
children  from  the  marriage. He remarried  in 2015  and  divorced  in 2019. He has an  eight-
year-old  child   from   the   marriage.   He  has  custody   of   the   child.  He   is  in  a   cohabitation
relationship. He  served  in  the military from 2004  to  2011  and  was honorably discharged.
Applicant was employed  from  September 2019  until  June  2021. He  has been  employed
by a federal contractor since July  2021.  (Tr. 43-46, 70-71,74;  GE 1)
In July 2016, Applicant was charged with possession of a controlled substance,
Oxycodone. Applicant held a security clearance at the time. He testified that he did not
have access to classified information, and there is no evidence to the contrary. (Tr. 165;
GE 2)
In  February  2017,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  In
October  2019,  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA).  He  was
reinterviewed in November 2019. Applicant was issued government interrogatories and
he  was  advised  to  make  corrections  or  additions  to  the  summary  of  interviews.  He
reported  updated  information  about  criminal  charges  and  an  updated  credit  report.  In
December 2020, he swore to the accuracy of the interviews. (GE 2)
During  his initial interview,  Applicant  was questioned about his  July  2016  arrest
and told the investigator that on July 2, 2016, he had traveled to Mexico for the day. While
in Mexico, he filled a prescription he had for Oxycodone and then returned home to the
United States. Upon entry into the U.S., he was questioned by Border Protection Agents
about the nature of his trip, and he informed them that it had been to refill a prescription
for Oxycodone, and he showed the agent the handwritten prescription and the pill bottle
which contained 15-20 pills. He was then met by a deputy sheriff of the local county. The
drug  was  seized,  and  Applicant  was  issued  a  citation  for  possession  of  a  controlled
substance. He showed the deputy sheriff the prescription that was obtained from a U.S.
doctor. Applicant was advised that it did not matter and was informed he would have to
appear in court. He was then released. (GE 2)
Applicant told the investigator that in August 2016 he went to the appropriate court
and was told by the clerk that no action had been taken on his citation, and he would be
contacted at a later date. He further told the investigator that as of the date of his interview
(February 2017) he had no contact with the court and did not know the status of his case.
He  said  he  did  not  report  the  misdemeanor  citation  for  possession  of  a  controlled
substance on his SCA because he did not believe he did anything wrong, was not arrested
and  had  not  had  his  day  in  court  to  prove  his  innocence.  He  did  not  believe  he  was
required to disclose it on his SCA.1 (GE 2)
During his February 2017 interview, Applicant told the investigator that he had a
prescription for Oxycodone for pain, which at the time he took lawfully and in compliance
with the prescription. He began using it sometime in January 2014, and he never abused
it.  Beginning  in  December  2016,  he  felt  like  he  was  becoming  addicted  and  sought
treatment  from a different doctor than the  one  who prescribed  it. He  was prescribed a
new  medication  for  pain  and  weaned  from  Oxycodone.  He  said  he  had  not  used
Oxycodone since January 2017. He did not believe he was addicted to it but believed he
was headed in that direction. He has not participated in drug counseling and did not have
a diagnosis of opioid addiction. (Tr. 136; GE 2)
Applicant  testified  that  he  had  a  valid  prescription  for  Oxycodone  and  took  it
according  to  the  prescription.  He  said  he  went  to  Mexico  to  have  dental  work.  Upon
returning through customs, he declared his medicine, which he said he was not taking at
the time. He showed the Border Control agent the bottle of  Oxycodone pills. It was an
older bottle and not the most current. It was confiscated, his car was searched, and he
received a citation for possession of a controlled substance. He said that he went to the
wrong courthouse and the hearing was rescheduled. (Tr. 110-115, 167-169)
In October 2017, Applicant was charged with felony importation of cocaine. During
his  November  2019  interview  by  a  government  investigator,  he  explained  that  he  had
gone to Mexico to a veterinarian to obtain vaccines for his dogs. He rented a car because
his  vehicle  had  been  recently  totaled  in  an  accident.  In  Mexico,  while  he  was  at  the
veterinarian, the vehicle was out of his sight for about three hours. After he finished at the
veterinarian, he crossed the Mexico-U.S. border on his return to the United States. His
vehicle  was  searched  and  inside  the  spare  tire  rim  16  kilos  of  cocaine  were  found.
Applicant  was arrested  and  charged  with  felony  importation of  cocaine.  He  denied the
drugs belonged to him and denied he was aware they were in the vehicle. (Tr. 115-117,
150-156; GE 3)
1  Applicant was referring to a previous SCA which was not offered into evidence.
During his November 2019 interview,  Applicant told the government investigator
that an investigation concluded that the drugs did not belong to  him, but because they
were in his vehicle, he was ultimately responsible. No investigative report was provided
that concluded the drugs did not belong to Applicant. He told the investigator that he pled
guilty to the charge to fast track his case, and it would allow him to qualify for Veteran’s
Court. In December 2017, he entered a plea of guilty to the felony importation of cocaine.
He said he believed he would have been convicted of the charge had it gone to trial. He
was incarcerated from October 2017 until approximately January or February 2018 and
then  immediately  participated  in  the  Community  Resource  and  Self-Help  Program
(CRASH)  where  he  resided  for  90  days.  This  program  is  apparently  a  prerequisite  for
participation in Veteran’s Court. (Tr. 67-69, 86-90, 115-118, 150-156)
After release from the CRASH program, while waiting to be accepted to Veteran’s
Court, Applicant was restricted from leaving the county. He violated that restriction to go
visit his son in another state. He was returned to custody in approximately October 2018.
He was in a holding facility and then federal prison from October 2018 until April 2019.
He was accepted into the  Veteran’s Court program.  In April 2019, he filed a motion to
withdraw his original plea of guilty, so he could participate in Veteran’s Court. As part of
the agreement to allow him to withdraw his plea and participate in Veteran’s Court he had
to plead guilty to the importation of cocaine charge. It was also learned that he had an
outstanding  charge  for  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  from  2016.  During  his
November 2019 interview,  he told the government  investigator that  in  August 2016  he
went to the wrong court for this charge and then he assumed the sheriff’s office chose not
to pursue the charge since no record could be found. He did not follow up on the citation.
A failure to appear warrant was issued  that he was unaware of until his October 2017
arrest. At his security clearance hearing, he said after he went to the wrong court, he was
given a new date to appear, but he failed to do so because he had been arrested and
was incarcerated at that time. He testified that the state agreed to resolve the possession
of  a  controlled  substance  citation  while  he  was  a  participant  in  Veteran’s  Court.  The
charge  was  adjudicated  by  a  different  court  through  a  diversion  program,  which  he
completed, and was dismissed in January 2021. (Tr. 118-127, 139-147-150, 159-164; GE
2)
The Veteran’s Court required that Applicant plead guilty to the charge; complete
inpatient  residence;  complete  three  urinalyses  a  week;  attend  counseling;  complete
community service; find employment; and participate in therapy. Applicant successfully
completed the program in July 2020. He testified that after three years, he can request to
have the charge expunged. Applicant provided the court document that the  importation
charge was dismissed with prejudice in July 2020. He provided a certificate of completion
for the Veterans Village Recovery Program (February 2020) and received alumni status.
This  program  is  a  one-year  inpatient  resident  program.  He  was  required  to  attend  the
required classes during the day and then he was able to get a job. Applicant completed it
in 10 months. He also provided a certificate of completion of the Veteran’s Court treatment
program from July 2020. (Tr. 127-135, 159-164; GE 2; AE C, D)
In  Applicant’s  October  2019  SCA,  he  did  not  disclose  under  Section  22  (Police
Record) or Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) that he received a citation in
July  2016  for  possession  of  a  controlled  substance.  Under  these  two  sections,  he
disclosed  the  following  regarding  his  October  2017  felony  arrest  and  charge  for
importation of cocaine: “I was traveling from Mexico into the United States on October 3,
2017. An illegal substance was found in the rental vehicle I was driving. I have not been
convicted and the charges are due to be dismissed.” (GE 1) Under Section 23 he wrote:
“I was not aware of what was in my vehicle while coming back into the United States. All
matters have been settled and I was never convicted of any crime, nor did I ever have to
pay an[y]  fines concerning  this matter.”  He said under the  reasons sections, “I used  to
live close to the border while working in [State]. I would to (sic) go down to Mexico for
better priced dental treatments.” (GE 1) He responded “yes” to the questions that asked
if  in  the  last  seven  years  he  had  been  involved  in  the  illegal  purchase,  manufacture,
cultivation,  trafficking,  production,  transfer,  shipping,  receiving,  handling  or  sale  of  any
drug or controlled substance.” (Tr 156-159; GE 1)
During  Applicant’s  November 2019  interview with  a  government investigator,  he
discussed  his October  2017  felony offense  of importation  of cocaine.  He was asked  by
the  investigator if he  had  any  other offenses to  report and  he  said “no”. He was confronted
with  his  July  2016  possession  of  a  controlled  substance   citation.  He then  explained  he
did not  know  why it  was not on  his SCA because  he  recalled  reporting  it,  but  he  could
possibly not have  saved  it correctly. He said he  had  traveled  to  Mexico to  purchase  over-
the-counter diabetes medication  for his aunt and  Oxycodone  for himself  that had  been
prescribed   and   upon  his return  to   the   United   States  he   received   the   above-mentioned
citation.   At   his  hearing,  Applicant  testified   that  he   went   to   Mexico   on   this  occasion   to
obtain  dental care.  He  was not sure why he failed to  disclose his drug offense citation on
his SCA.  He  then  said  he  did not  disclose  it because  he  did not  go  to  court and  did  not
think it  was anything serious. (Tr. 136, 138; GE 2)
In Applicant’s SCA under Section 11, which asked where he had lived, he did not
disclose  his  incarceration  from  October  2017  to  January  or  February  2018  or  his
residence in the CRASH program for 90 days. When the investigator asked him why he
failed  to  disclose  where  he  was  living,  he  explained  that  he  considered  these  to  be
transitional, or he did not consider them “residences,” and he was not required to disclose
them. He said he was not intentionally attempting to conceal this information. When asked
at his hearing why he failed to disclose the information, he testified that he did not know
why he did not disclose it. He was not the same person mentally as he is now. (Tr. 89-92;
GE 1)
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for disqualifying purposes. However, the information may be considered in the application
of  mitigating  conditions,  in  making  a  credibility  determination,  and in  the  whole-person
analysis.
Applicant provided a letter of intent which stated he would never misuse any illegal
substances in the future, including possession of any illegal drug or use any legal drug
without a prescription. If he violates the letter, he consented to automatic revocation of
his security clearance. He also agreed that if his charges were not dismissed in July 2023
due to his failure to meet all the requirements, he consented to automatic revocation of
his security clearance. (AE A)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  has  six  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately
$74,386. He testified these debts were incurred during his marriage, and the smaller ones
he lost track of due to life events. He disclosed on his October 2019 SCA a credit card
debt of approximately $5,000 (SOR ¶ 1.b - actual amount owed $14,923) that became
delinquent in May 2017 that he attributed to a divorce and the end of a contract that he
had been working on. He said he planned on contacting the creditor to resolve it once he
was back at work. He planned on taking the necessary steps to pay the debt in a timely
manner. He did not disclose any other delinquent debts. (Tr. 48-49, 95; GE 1)
During his November 2019 interview, Applicant acknowledged he underestimated
the amount of his credit card debt. He stated it became delinquent due to the loss of a
contract  and  because  he  was  unemployed  while  incarcerated  in  October  2017  for  the
above-mentioned drug charge. Applicant told the investigator  that he did not have any
other financial issues. He was then confronted with the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a ($57,793) with
the same creditor. He explained he had purchased a travel trailer with a loan from the
creditor. The original loan amount was $85,000. He was unable to pay the loan for the
same reasons stated above. He told the investigator that he contacted the creditor and
planned to make payments on the debt. He said he had started a new job and would pay
it when he was sure he was able to keep the job. He testified that he did not know why
he failed to disclose this debt on his SCA. (Tr. 96; GE 2)
In  November 2019  Applicant  acknowledged  to  the  investigator the  four remaining
debts that are alleged  in the  SOR (¶¶  1.c - $849, 1.d  - $641, 1.e  - $143, 1.f  - $37). He told
the  investigator that his finances  were  stable, he  was able and  willing  to  pay his debts,
and  he  would  not likely experience  future financial problems. In  his answer to  the  SOR,
he   provided   documents  to   show  he   paid   the   debts  in   SOR  ¶¶  1.c,   1.d,  1.e   and   1.f   in
February 2021.  He testified  that he paid  them  after he  received  the SOR. (Tr. 48-51, 79-
80; GE 2, 4, 5, 6, 7)
In  Applicant’s February 2021  answer to  the  SOR, he  said was  working  on  repaying
the  debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a  and  1.b,  and  he  was taking  all  actions required  to  restore his
credit. He testified  he  started  to  miss payments on  the  debt in  SOR ¶  1.a  in  2017.  He said
he  delayed  resolving  the  debt because  in approximately 2020  he  was  involved  in a  costly
child  custody  dispute.  At his  hearing,  he  provided  letters  dated  February 14,  2023,  from
the creditor confirming settlement offers of $26,006 for SOR ¶ 1.a  and $6,696 for SOR ¶
1.b  with  monthly  payments  of  $650  and  $270,  respectively,  for 40  months  until  June  2026.
He provided  copies of payments made  in February and  March 2023. (Tr. 52; Answer to
SOR; GE 4, 5, 6, 7;  AE B, E, F)
Applicant  testified  that  his  finances  and  job  are  stable.  After  living  in  rental
residences, he and his girlfriend were concerned about the housing market and decided
to  purchase  a  home. In  July 2022, they  purchased  a  home  together  with  both  using  partial
eligibility for a Department of Veterans Affairs loan. They each  contributed  about $5,000-
6,000 toward the  down payment.  (Tr. 75-77)
Character witnesses  testified  on  Applicant’s behalf. His cohabitant has been  his
girlfriend for three years. She believes he is the most honest and trustworthy person she
ever met. She has not observed him using illegal drugs and he takes his valid medication
as prescribed. He pays his bills and is very responsible. She holds a security clearance
and believes he possesses the good judgment necessary to hold a clearance. (Tr. 20-27)
A  coworker testified  on  his behalf. They have  worked  together since  July 2022. He
testified  that Applicant’s work performance  is  outstanding. He  believes Applicant  is very
truthful and honest. He trusts  him to safeguard classified information. (Tr. 28-33)
Applicant’s  former  supervisor  testified  on  his  behalf.  Applicant  worked  for  him
starting in August 2021  and they are friends.  He testified  that  Applicant’s  performance
was reliable and trustworthy. He would trust Applicant to handle classified information.
(Tr. 34-40)
