Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR except for ¶ 1.f, which he denied. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 37 years old. He served in the National Guard from 2008 to 2014 and
was  honorably  discharged.  He  attended  community  college  from  2010  to  2011  and
another college  for one  semester in  2017.  He  married  in 2015.  His wife  is a  citizen  of
Kyrgyzstan  and  is  pending  naturalization  as  a  U.S.  citizen.  She  does  not  yet  have  a
permanent resident card. Applicant  has a stepchild and two children. All three children
were  born  in  Kyrgyzstan.  His  two  biological  children  are  citizens  of  the  United  States.
Applicant is employed overseas, and he and his family live with him there. (Item 3; AE A)
Applicant  has  been  employed  by  a  federal  contractor  since  July  2018.  On  his
September 2018 security clearance application (SCA), he disclosed he was unemployed
from May 2014 to November 2014 and November 2014 to February 2015. (Item 3)
In his 2018 SCA, Applicant disclosed the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d,
1.e, and 1.f. The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a ($462) and 1.b ($878) are to the same creditor.
Applicant  said  he  was  in  the  process  of  repaying  both  of  these  debts.  During  his
December 2018 interview with a government investigator, he said he intended to address
his financial issues aggressively with excess pay he was earning. He acknowledged the
debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 1.e and 1.f. In Applicant’s March 2022 answer to the SOR,
he admitted the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e and denied the debt in 1.f. Regarding
the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b,  he  said  once  he  contacts  the  creditor  to  get  the
necessary information to access pay options, he will pay the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a and make
a partial payment for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b. In his response to the FORM, Applicant did
not provide any evidence that he has taken action to resolve these debts. SOR ¶¶ 1.a
and 1.b are unresolved. (Items 2, 3, 4)
The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.d ($6,719) and 1.e ($9,595) are to the same creditor. SOR
¶¶ 1.d is a credit card debt. It appears that SOR ¶ 1.e is a loan. In his SCA, Applicant
stated for SOR ¶ 1.d that he was unable to make the payments on the account. He said,
“repayment is ongoing to correct this debt.” (Item 3) The delinquency began in 2017. He
stated the action he was taking was as follows: “I am  working  with  [creditor] to  resolve
this issue and hopefully have the card reinstated.” (Item 3) For SOR ¶ 1.e he said, “I am
planning  to  make  payments  for  this  after  repaying  the  credit  card  debt.”  (Item  3)  He
acknowledged the debts with the government investigator and said he was aggressively
addressing them with his excess pay. In his SOR answer, he said he will work with the
creditor to resolve both debts as soon as possible after he completes paying the debts in
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. He said it may take time, but he will bring the accounts into good
standing. In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he said he had contacted the creditor and
made  payment  arrangements  whereby  monthly  payments  would  be  automatically
deducted  from  his  account.  No  evidence  was  provided  to  show  the  payment
arrangements or other actions to resolve the debts. SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e are unresolved.
(Items 2, 3, 4, 5; AE A)
In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c ($1,720) and said he
will pay it off after he has paid the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. No evidence was provided
to show he has been paying any of his delinquent debts.
Applicant reported the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f ($13,047) in his SCA. This debt was for a
repossessed car in 2014 during a time when he was laid off from his job, and unable to
make payments on the car and then his son was born. He said the car was sold and the
debt resolved. During his December 2018 background interview, he acknowledged the
debt. In his answer to the SOR, he said the debt should not be on his credit report because
the  creditor  recouped  the  money  owed.  He  said,  “I  am  opening  a  dispute  to  have  it
removed.”  The  debt  is  reported  on  his  April  2021  credit  report  as  “charged  off”  and
“account  paid  for less than  full  balance.”  He said he received a  letter that the car was
sold, and the debt recovered. He assumed he did not have to repay any amount.  This
debt is resolved. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5; AE A)
In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  said  “I  am  working  to  resolve  my  debt
issues  but  right  now I am trying  to get my wife  a green  card  so that  we  can have two
incomes which will help with repayments as well.” (AE A)
Applicant’s mother-in-law, two sisters-in-law and a brother-in-law are all citizens
and residents of Kyrgyzstan. His wife speaks to her mother and sisters almost daily and
her brother often. Applicant provides monthly financial support to his wife’s mother  and
sisters. His mother-in-law is not employed. In his SCA, he reported his sisters-in-law were
not employed. He reported his brother-in-law has a logistics company. In his answer to
the SOR, he said his sisters-in-law own and operate a restaurant. In his response to the
FORM,  he  acknowledged  that  Kyrgyzstan  is  a  hostile  place  to  him  and  his  children
because  of  their  race.  He  said  his  wife’s family  is not  affiliated  with the government  of
Kyrgyzstan. (Items 2, 3, 4; AE A)
