In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.c without further comment. His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  31  years  old.  Record  evidence  reflects  that  he  was  engaged  to  be
married  in  late  2021  and  has  no  children.  He  graduated  college  in  2014.  Shortly
afterwards,  he  obtained  employment  as  a  software  engineer  and  has  since  been
consistently employed. He has been with his current employer as a  software engineer
since 2021. (GX 3-4)
In  his  June  2021  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  began  using  marijuana  in
2010, during his first year in college. The frequency of his marijuana use varied from as
little as four times per year to as often as four times per week. He stopped using for a
period  in  2016  when  he  experienced  “bad  anxiety  and  paranoia”  after  consuming  a
marijuana edible. However, he later resumed using marijuana and disclosed that his last
use was in May 2021, a month before submitting his SCA. He stated he would not use
marijuana for the period he held a security clearance. (GX 3)
During  his  September  2021  background  interview,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he
purchased  marijuana  from  2010  through  2014.  He  further  disclosed  that  he  had
consumed,  smoked,  and  vaped  a  variety  of  marijuana  products  from  2010  into  2021,
including  after  he  submitted  his  SCA.  Although  Applicant  resides  in  a  state  where
marijuana  is  legal,  he  acknowledged  his  awareness  that  marijuana  was  illegal  under
federal  law.  Still,  Applicant  stated  that  he  intends  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the
future because  he  “enjoys the autonomy to smoke” even though he claimed to not like
marijuana. (GX 4)
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he used marijuana from about
October  2010  through  July  2021,  a  month  after  he  submitted  his  SCA  and  that  he
purchased  marijuana  from  2010  through  2014.  He  further  admitted  his  intention  to
continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  did  not  provide  any  additional  information
beyond his admissions. (GX 2)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  Government’s  FORM  or  otherwise  offer  any
mitigating evidence beyond what he had previously stated.
