Applicant admitted the two SOR allegations contained in SOR Paragraph 1, with
explanations; she denied the allegation contained in SOR Paragraph 2, with explanations;
and she admitted the SOR allegation contained in SOR Paragraph 3, with explanations.
(Item 2) Her admissions are incorporated into these findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. She was married in 2007, but is currently separated. She
has four children, ranging in age from 9 to 28 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree
in 2002, and has taken additional college credits. She has worked for federal contractors
since April 2015, with a brief period of unemployment in mid-2021. She started her current
position with a federal contractor in October 2021. (Item 3)
Applicant completed her Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing
(e-QIP) on October 21, 2021. In response to questions in Section 22 inquiring about a
police record, she disclosed that  in July 2021,  she was charged with  driving under the
influence (DUI), a misdemeanor, and was awaiting a trial scheduled for November 2021.
In Section 24 inquiring about her use of alcohol, she explained that on July 22, 2021, she
had been consuming alcohol prior to work and was later terminated from her former job.
(Item 3)
According to a disciplinary report from her employer, Applicant was terminated on
July 27, 2021, for failing to uphold the company’s personal conduct and work performance
standards; engaging in conduct which could impair relationships between employees and
customers; reporting to work intoxicated; and engaging in physical behaviors that caused
disruptions and created unsafe work conditions. (Item 5)
In February 2022, Applicant  was interviewed by an  investigator for the Office of
Personnel Management  (OPM).  She  confirmed  that  she was  working the third  shift on
July 22, 2021, and came to work with alcohol on her breath. She stated that she had been
consuming alcohol with another colleague. She acknowledged that she was intoxicated.
She  explained  that  her  employer  did  not  object  to  employees  drinking  alcohol  prior  to
work, but they were not permitted to come to work intoxicated or smelling like alcohol.
(Item 4)
When Applicant arrived at work, she was displaying inebriated behaviors and was
offered a ride home by a coworker. Instead of taking that ride, she decided to drive home.
She was stopped by the police. She failed a sobriety test. She was taken to the police
station  and  failed  a  blood  test.  She  remained  at  the  police  station  overnight  and  was
charged with DUI. She was later terminated from her job. She told the investigator that
the  COVID-19  lockdown  contributed  to her  consumption of  alcohol as  she was  feeling
stressed and isolated during the pandemic. (Item 4)
On January 15, 2022, Applicant pleaded guilty to the DUI charge and was ordered
to pay a $1,200 fine. She was placed on probation for one year and required to undergo
alcohol/drug testing  twice  a month. She  was  also  required  to  attend  alcohol education
courses  and  participate  in  an  alcohol  evaluation.  In  her  October  11,  2022  answer  to
interrogatories, she disclosed that she attended Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) during the
weeks following her arrest, but was not attending  as of the date of the interrogatories.
She said her friends and family are aware of her DUI. (Item 4)
Applicant’s  interrogatories  also  inquired  about  her  history  of  alcohol  use  since
January 2010. She disclosed  that she drank “vodka/bourbon/whiskey many dates over
twelve and a half years.  . . 1-2 times a week and on holiday/1-6oz.” (Item 4) She drank
“wine  multiple  dates  over twelve  and  a  half years .  .  .  daily/glass.”  (Item  4)  She  drank
“beer . . . multiple dates over twelve and a half years . . . daily/12-14 oz.” (Item 4). The
last time she used hard liquor was on October 10, 2022, the day before she responded
to  the  interrogatories.  She  noted  that  she  intended  to  consume  hard  liquor,  wine,  and
beer in the future for recreational purposes. (Item 4) She stated that she had not been
diagnosed with an alcohol-related disorder as of the date of these interrogatories. (Item
4)
In her Answer, Applicant acknowledged that she made a bad decision when she
decided to drink before going to work. She said this was an isolated incident, and in the
future, she would not consume alcohol and drive, or go to work after consuming alcohol.
(Item 2)
