Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.c.  He  neither  admitted  nor  denied
SOR  ¶  2.a,  and  I  have  construed  his  silence  as  a  denial  of  that  allegation.  His
admissions  are  incorporated  in  my  findings  of  fact.  He  is  36  years  old,  he  married  in
2009, and he divorced in 2015. He has a 12-year-old child from his previous marriage,
and he  and  his ex-spouse  were expecting another child as  of  the  date  of  the hearing.
(Answer; Tr. at 7, 9-10, 12-15, 41-45; GE 1, 2; AE A)
Applicant  obtained   his   general  educational  development   certificate   in  January
2006.  He   attended   college   from   January  2006   to   May   2007   and   February   2013   to
August 2013  but  did  not earn a  degree. He was unemployed  from  September 2005  to
January   2006,  September 2007   to   January   2008,   and   January  2017   to   January   2018.
He  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  military  in  January 2008  and  received  a  general discharge  under
honorable   conditions   in   approximately  February  2016,   as  further  discussed   below.   He
worked  for a  previous  DOD contractor from   January 2018  until  November 2018.  Since
then,  and  as of the  date  of  the  hearing,  he has worked  for his current employer,  another
DOD   contractor,  in   information   technology   and   cybersecurity.   He   was   first  granted   a
security clearance  in 2009,  while  serving  in the  U.S. military.  (Tr. at  5-7, 25-27, 42, 52-
54; GE  1, 2, 3; AE A)
In  approximately  August  2004,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
misdemeanor  harassment  (physical  contact)  no  injury.  He  was  18  years  old.  He  was
with friends at a gas station convenience store, and he put the palm of his hand in front
of  a  girl’s  forehead  as  she  walked  past  him.  He  testified,  “I  was  just  being  dumb.”  He
pled guilty and was credited for one day served and fined. He disclosed this incident on
his 2009 security clearance application (SCA). (SOR ¶ 1.c; Answer; Tr. at 25, 40-41, 44,
46; GE 2, 5; AE A)
In  approximately  February  2015,  Applicant  received  a  general  discharge  under
honorable  conditions  for  misconduct  (serious  offense)  from  the  U.S.  military,  after
receiving  a  non-judicial  punishment  (NJP)  for  adultery  and  communicating  a  threat.
After  his  then-spouse  discovered  that  he  had  been  having  an  affair,  she  repeatedly
telephoned him to provoke an admission while secretly recording their conversation. He
threatened  her  during  one  such  telephone  conversation,  after  she  told  him  that  she
would leave with all his possessions and he would never again see their daughter. She
reported  him  and  provided  the  recording  to  his  command.  He  admitted  guilt.  He  was
ordered  to  and  received  anger  management  counseling.  He  disclosed  this  information
on  his  2018  SCA.  He  expressed  remorse  for  his  actions  and  pledged  to  never  again
engage in such conduct in the future. He and his ex-spouse have become friends since
their  divorce.  They  communicate  effectively  with  one  another  to  raise  their  daughter,
and they visit each other and take trips together. She wrote a letter of support attesting
to  his  personal  growth  and  commitment  to  her,  their  daughter,  and  their  unborn  child.
(SOR ¶ 1.a; Answer; Tr. at 23-27, 42-47; GE 1, 3; AE A)
In  approximately  May  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  felony
wanton  endangerment,  first  degree,  police  officer,  after  a  handgun  was  pointed  at  a
police officer. This incident occurred while Applicant was visiting his mother, who lived
with  his  brother,  in  a  different  state  than  his  state  of  residence.  One  night,  after  his
brother  returned  from  socializing  with  friends,  Applicant  and  his  brother  consumed
alcohol together at his brother’s home. They then went to a bar, where they continued to
consume  alcohol,  and  then  they  went  to  eat  at  a  restaurant.  Applicant’s  brother drove
them to the bar and restaurant in Applicant’s brother’s car. (SOR ¶ 1.b; Answer; Tr. at
24-25, 27-40, 44-51, 53-54; GE 3, 4, 5; AE A)
Applicant’s  then-girlfriend  and  her  friend  arrived  at  the  same  restaurant  shortly
after Applicant and his brother. His brother and then-girlfriend began arguing with each
other. She and Applicant exited the restaurant to sit in her car, and Applicant’s brother
continued  to  argue  with  her.  Applicant’s  brother  learned  that  she  was  cheating  on
Applicant while Applicant was away. Applicant broke his then-girlfriend’s passenger side
window  and  then  went  to  sit  inside  his  brother’s  car.  Applicant’s  brother  continued  to
argue with Applicant’s then-girlfriend and her friend, and a bystander allegedly pulled a
knife out on Applicant’s brother in defense of Applicant’s then-girlfriend and her friend.
Applicant’s brother then came to his car and retrieved a handgun that, unbeknownst to
Applicant, was inside the car. When Applicant’s brother walked  towards the restaurant
with  the  handgun,  Applicant  immediately  began  running  to  his  brother’s  house.  He
heard someone say they were calling the police, so he used the back streets  to avoid
the police. He knew he was intoxicated. (SOR ¶ 1.b; Answer; Tr. at 24-25, 27-40, 44-51,
53-54; GE 3, 4, 5; AE A)
When  Applicant  arrived  at  his  brother’s  home,  he  knocked  on  the  doors  and
windows to  wake up his mother  so that  she could  let him  in.  He  then  went  inside  and
locked  the  door  behind  him.  Soon  after, there  was  a  knock  on  the  door. Applicant  did
not open the door. He asked who it was and attempted to look through a window at the
top of the door to  see who  was  there. The knocking continued  and  Applicant knocked
back. Applicant testified:
They  kept  doing  whatever  I  -- whatever  I  did.  They  wouldn’t  answer,
wouldn’t tell me who they were. They weren’t saying anything. They would
just  knock and they  wouldn’t stop. I  told them  to go away. They  wouldn’t
go away.
(Tr. at 33-36)
Applicant  then  cracked  the  door  open  while  pointing  his  vaping  device  and
sweeping it back and forth, from left to right, so that it looked like a gun. At the hearing,
he  denied  it  was  a  gun  and  maintained  he  did  not  possess  a  gun.  He  then  heard,
“police,  drop  the  gun  or  we’ll  shoot,”  so  he  threw  the  vape  on  the  ground  outside  the
door  and  slammed  it  shut.  Applicant’s  brother  arrived  and  informed  the  police  officers
that Applicant had pointed a vape out the door. Applicant obeyed the officers’ orders to
come out of the home and he was arrested. The police swept his brother’s home, and
with his brother’s assistance, found a handgun in the cabinet beneath the kitchen sink.
The  police  report  noted  that  this  handgun  belonged  to  Applicant’s  brother,  and  it
matched  the  handgun  that  was  pointed  out  the  door.  Unbeknownst  to  Applicant,
Applicant’s  brother  had  driven  home  while  Applicant  was  running  from  the  restaurant
and put his handgun underneath the kitchen sink then left. Applicant’s brother returned
to the home when Applicant’s mother telephoned him to tell him that the police were at
the home looking for him. (SOR ¶ 1.b; Answer; Tr. at 24-25, 27-40, 44-51, 53-54; GE 3,
4, 5; AE A)
In  October  2019,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  misdemeanor  disorderly  conduct,  2nd
degree.  He  was  credited  with  five  days  served.  He  did  not  want  to  fight  the  case
because  he  lived  and  worked  in  a  different  state,  and  he  already  missed  work  for  his
time spent in jail. He was prohibited from owning or possessing a firearm for two years.
He complied with the terms of his plea. He reported this incident to his supervisor and
security  manager,  and  he  discussed  it  during  his  2019  background  interview.  His
brother  was  charged  with  and  pled  guilty  to  felony  wanton  endangerment.  He  was
prohibited  from  possessing  a  firearm  and  remained  on  probation as  of  the  date  of  the
hearing. (SOR ¶ 1.b; Answer; Tr. at 24-25, 27-40, 44-51, 53-54; GE 3, 4, 5; AE A)
Applicant  testified  that  he  would  not  again  put  himself  in  a  similar  position
because “I can’t get in trouble. . . . I don’t want to get in trouble.” He still sees his brother
on the occasions when he visits his mother, and he stated that his brother is on a better
path. Applicant stated that he takes care to not put himself in similar situations, he does
not frequent bars, and he does not associate with people who exhibit reckless behavior.
If he were to find himself in a risky situation, he stated that he would endeavor to find a
safe way out of it and recognized that he should have taken an Uber or taxi to a safe
friend  or  family’s  residence.  He  testified  that  he  received  favorable  performance
evaluations  from  his  previous  and  current  employers  who  are  DOD  contractors.  He
stated  that  he  has  received  performance-based  promotions  yearly  from  his  current
employer,  and  he  earned  $93,000  annually  as  of  the  date  of  the hearing,  an  increase
from $85,000 annually in 2018. (Tr. at 51-55; AE A)
Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  since  approximately  2019  wrote  a  letter  of  support
for  Applicant  and  described  Applicant  as  a  stellar  performer  who  has  demonstrated
“notable  personal  growth  and  maturity.”  Applicant’s  colleague  and  close  friend  of  four
years also attested to Applicant’s strong work ethic and professionalism. This individual
also noted Applicant’s remorse for his past mistakes and strength of character. Another
colleague,  who  previously  served  with  Applicant  in  the  U.S.  military,  also  attested  to
Applicant’s reliability, dedication, and maturity. (AE A)
