Applicant is 23 years old. He was finishing his college requirements at the time he
completed his SCA in March 2022. He is unmarried and has no children. (Item 2 at 5, 13,
and 14.)
SOR ¶  1.a  -- using marijuana. In his Answer, Applicant admits he used marijuana
with  varying  frequency  from  about  2017  to  about  April  2022.  He  told  the  investigator
during  the  hiring  process  in  2022  he  stopped  using  marijuana  for  a  two-month  period
because he wanted to pass a drug test. (Item 3 at 8, 9.) He states he stopped using five
days prior to his security clearance interview. He had vowed to never use marijuana again
and said that he  had  “thrown away the drugs and paraphernalia. (Item 3  at 6.)  His last
use  was  on  April  23,  2022.  (Item  3  at  5.)  He  states  in  his  Answer and  in  response  to
interrogatories he does not intend to continue using marijuana  and that he has moved
away from  where he went to college and no longer associates with people involved in
“criminal activity.” (Item 3 at 6.)
SOR  ¶   1.b  --  purchasing  marijuana.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admits  to
purchasing marijuana from about 2017 to about April 2022. He would buy the marijuana
in one state, at a recreational dispensary, and transport it back to his state because he
understood it to be against the law in his state to purchase and possess marijuana. (Item
3 at 5 and 8.) He states in his Answer that he does not intend to possess marijuana in the
future. He specified in his interrogatory response he did not sell or manufacture the drug
during  this  time  period.  (Item  3  at  5.)  He  also  stated  he  no  longer  possesses  unused
drugs,  substances,  or  paraphernalia,  and  no  longer  associates  with  persons  who  use
illegal substances (to include marijuana and derivative products) or frequent places where
he may believe illegal substances are being used. (Item 3 at 6-7.)
SOR ¶  1.c  -- using Psilocybin Mushrooms.  In his Answer, Applicant admits he
used  psilocybin  mushrooms  in  about  July  2019.  Under  further  questioning  during  his
security  clearance  interview  he  admitted  to  using  mushrooms  at  the  beach  with  his
girlfriend. (Item 3 at 9.) He states this was an “eye opening experience and this was the
only time he used mushrooms. (Item 3 at 9.)
SOR ¶  2.a  -- falsifying  material facts.  Applicant admits he falsified his answer
to Question 23 of his SCA, which asked whether he had used or otherwise been illegally
involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance.  He  answered  “Yes”  but  disclosed  the
marijuana  use  as  limited  to  a  one-year  period,  from  January  2021  through  December
2021. He stated in his SCA that he used “it only on special occasions.” (Item 2 at 28.) He
failed  to  disclose  the  full  extent  of  his  marijuana  use  until  his  April  28,  2022  security
clearance interview. (Item 3 at 8.) He told the investigator he did not want to admit to his
employer that he had been smoking marijuana for an extended period of time. (Item 3 at
8.)
SOR ¶  2.b  –  falsifying  material facts. Applicant admitted he deliberately falsified
his answer to Question 23 of his SCA, which asked whether he had any additional illegal
use of a drug or controlled substance to disclose . He answered “No” and failed to disclose
his use of psilocybin mushrooms in July 2019.
Applicant  explained  in  his  April  2022  security  clearance  interview  that  after
completing his SCA in March 2022 he researched marijuana use and learned he could
not use marijuana while holding a security clearance. (Item 3 at 8-9.) He continued to use
and  possess  marijuana  up  until  his  security  clearance  interview.  (Item  3  at  9.)  In  the
November 2022 interrogatory responses, he affirms he no longer uses or possesses any
marijuana, and he no longer associates with people who do. (Item 3 at 6-7.)
