Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  civilian  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married  in  June  2003  and  has  six  children  (ages 17, 15,  14, 12,  9, and
8) from  this  marriage. (Item  4) Applicant earned  a  bachelors  degree  in December 1997
and a master’s degree  in May 2006. (Item  4) He enlisted  in the  Marine  Corps  in January
1980   and   served   six   years   in  the   Inactive   Reserve  before  receiving   an   honorable
discharge in June  1986. (Item  4)
Since March 2016, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a computer
systems technologist. (Item 4) Between November 2003 and March 2016, he worked for
other  employers  in  various  systems  administrator  positions.  (Item  4)  He  has  held  a
security clearance since April 2004. (Item 4)
Applicant’s  security infractions
Between  October  2019  and  November  2020,  Applicant  received  multiple  verbal
warnings  for  security  infractions,  and  more  recently,  in  March  2021,  a  written  warning
for failing to properly  secure a classified hard  drive while in a closed area.  (Items 4-6)
Records  document  that  in  October  2019,  Applicant  self-reported  to  his  information
security systems officer (ISSO) that he downloaded classified information on a compact
disc (CD) without authorization in September 2019 and left it unsecured on his desk in
his cubicle until October 2019. (Item 6)
Further  investigation  by  his  ISSO  confirmed  that  Applicant  had  downloaded  12
files to a CD without authorization, failed to document the trusted downloads (TD) in e-
Binder, and failed to properly label and secure the CD.  His ISSO administrators  found
no loss or compromise of classified information and advised him of the need to properly
download  classified  information  in  the  future  to  ensure  his  understanding  of  proper
downloading procedures. (Item 6)
In  April  2020,  Applicant  (while  employed  by  his  current  employer)  received  a
security  infraction  notification  with  a  verbal  warning  for  allowing  access  and  use  of
unauthorized  software  (Skype)  on  a  classified  information  system  without  following
required  cybersecurity  procedures.  (Item  3)  Applicant  denied  parts  of  the  substantive
allegation,  claiming  the  software  had  been  approved  by  his  ISSO  administrator.
However, he admitted that his further testing of the software was unauthorized. (Item 3)
In
their  own
investigation  of
the  April  2020
ISSO
administrators confirmed that  another employee of the company was in the process of
getting the Skype for business software certified for use on the  company’s information
system  (inclusive  of  ensuring  that  certain  security  controls  were  on  the  system  and
certified  for  use)  when  the  employee  discovered  that  Applicant  had  been  allowing
employees  to  use  the  program  before  the  full  certification  could  be  finalized.  (Item  6)
While  no  loss  or  compromise  of  classified  information  was  detected,  Applicant  was
issued a verbal warning. (Item 6)
incident,  Applicant’s
In May 2020, while still employed by his current employer, Applicant committed a
company  policy  infraction  when  he  inadvertently  brought  a  cell  phone  into  a  closed
area. (Items 3 and 6) Employer records affirm that Applicant self-reported the incident,
and  his  employer’s  ISSO  administrators  confirmed  the  absence  of  any  compromise  of
classified information.
Upon concluding their investigation, his ISSO administrators verbally warned him
of his violation without the issuance of a security infraction. ISSO administrators, in turn,
referred  their  findings  to  Applicant’s  supervisor  for  any  further  consideration  of  the
incident. (Item 6) Company records confirmed that Applicant received a company policy
infraction  with  corrective  actions  deferred  to  management  for  inadvertently  bringing  a
cell phone into a closed area, in violation of established procedures. (Item 6)
Applicant’s  employment  records   document   that   in  November   2020,   he   self-
reported  his failure to  secure a  classified  hard  drive  while in a  closed  area. (Items 3  and
6)  Admitting  the  infraction, Applicant told  his company’s ISSO administrator that he  had
found   the   classified   hard  drive   in  his   desk  drawer,   but   could   not   recall   how   the   drive
arrived  in his cubical.  (Item  6) He  told  the  ISSO administrator  investigating  the  incident
that   he   last   used   similar  drives  in   2016   upon   his   new   arrival  to   the   company.   (Item   6)
ISSO   administrators, in   turn  took   possession   of  the   hard   drive   and   found  no   nefarious
activities or anomalies  in their audit. (Item 6)
ISSO administrators based their findings on the absence of any exhibited activity
with the hard drive since 2016. (Item 6) Although, Applicant’s actions were confirmed to
be inadvertent, he was considered to be responsible for violating established safeguard
procedures  for  storing  materials  bearing  secret  labels  (as  was  the  case  with  the  hard
drive found in his cubicle drawer), and was issued a verbal warning. Applicant’s claims
that  there  was  no  formal  process  to  inventory  their  cubes  when  he  first  entered  his
employment  with  his  employer  were  neither  acknowledged  nor  accepted  by  ISSO
administrators. (Items 3 and 6)
More recently (in March 2021), Applicant received a written warning for failing to
properly secure a classified hard drive while in a closed area. (Items 3 and 6) Claiming
he  inherited  the  hard-drive  from  a  person  who  occupied  the  cubicle  before  him,  he
acknowledged  the  incident  and  claimed  he  was  told  to  accept  the  hard  drive  “as-is”
when he assumed possession of the hard-drive as a new employee. (Item 3) Applicant’s
employer’s records reflect that Applicant acquired his hard drive in 2018, and the drive
was  found  when  an  employee  of  the  company  was  moving  into  Applicant’s  cubical.
(item  6)  When  asked  by  ISSO  administrators  about  the  hard  drive,  Applicant
acknowledged his acquiring the drive when he joined the company in 2018 (believing at
the time that the drive was unclassified).
ISSO  administrators  in their investigation  of  the  2021  incident  found  Applicant’s
acquired hard drive to bear a classified label (albeit in a clear case with an unclassified
sticker  on  the  exterior),  and,  as  such,  was  a  classified  hard  drive  that  was  improperly
stored  by  Applicant  for  approximately  two  years  without  any  evidence  of  a  suspected
loss  or  compromise  of  classified  information.  (Item  6)  Based  on  the  investigation’s
findings, Applicant received a written warning.
Since the investigated March 2021 incident, Applicant has been transferred to a
new  position  where  he  is  no  longer  responsible  for  classified  assets.  (Item  5)  He
assured in his personal subject interview (PSI), conducted in February 2022, that should
he be assigned to another position in the chain of assets, he will be sure to check the
inventory and ensure that all items are properly labeled. (Item 5)
In  his  defense,  Applicant  expressed  his  belief  that  he  had  proved  his
trustworthiness  through  his  work  as  a  system  administrator  entrusted  with  the
responsibility  for  handling  “thousands  of  classified  hard  drives/tapes,  performed
hundreds software installations, and ensured the classified information systems that he
was responsible for were compliant with DoD requirements for over 5 years.” (Item 3)
