After a  thorough  and  careful review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted, I   make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  41
old,  married  (December  2017),  and  has  three  sons,  ages
21, 15, and  7.  He  is a  high  school graduate  and  completed  one  year of college.   Since
December 2018, he  has worked for a  defense contractor. (Item  2.)
years
The  SOR alleged  six delinquent  debts totaling  approximately $25,000.  (Item  1S.)
Applicant admitted  those allegations, without comments or explanations. (Item 1A.)
During  his July 20,  2021  Personal Subject Interview (PSI), he  was asked  about the
SOR debts.  For each  debt,  he  explained  that  he  just  “got  behind.” Similarly, for each  debt,
he  intended  to  contact the  creditor and  set up  a  payment  plan  by  late  2021. As  of the  PSI,
however,  he  had  not yet contacted  his  creditors. He  attributed  his  financial  difficulties to
living  and  working  in  State  A, that has  a  very  high  cost-of-living. To  reduce  his expenses,
after living  in State  A  since  2001, in June  2019  he  moved  to  State  B, which  he  believed
would  reduce   his  living   expenses.  (Items   2   and   3.)   He  submitted   no   documents
evidencing any contacts with  his creditors or payment plans.
Applicant  has  14   accounts  that  are  reported   PAYS  AS   AGREED.  The   six  SOR
debts  were  assigned   to   collections between   2013    and   2016, and    they  remain   in
collections today.  (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of  the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate   poor  self-control,
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and   meet  financial
judgment,   or
obligations  may
unwillingness   to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of   which   can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive  information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially  overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise  questionable acts to  generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security  concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following condition is applicable in this case:
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit  report.   Although   the   record  has  only  one   credit  report  (July  2021),  the   six  SOR
debts  were  assigned   to   collections  between   2013   and   2016,  and   they  remain   in
collections  today.  Notwithstanding  Applicant’s  14  accounts  that  are  current,  the  record
shows a history of not meeting financial obligations. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are
potentially applicable:
(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,   trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment; and
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering  to a good-faith effort to repay
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(a). The six SOR debts were
assigned to collections between 2013 and 2016, which is quite some time ago. But
they remain in collections today. They are recurring debts. Applicant’s SOR debts
are not mitigated by AG ¶ 20(a).
I  have  also  considered  mitigating  condition  AG  ¶  20(d).  Applicant  has
expressed his intention to contact his SOR creditors and establish payment plans.
He has not, however, shown any evidence of such contacts or payment plans. The
Appeals  Board  has  routinely  held  that  it  is  reasonable  to  expect  applicants  to
produce documentation supporting their efforts to resolve debts. See, e.g., ISCR
Case  No.  20-00615  at  2  (Jun.  7,  2021).  Applicant  has  not  satisfied  that  basic
requirement. His debts are not mitigated by AG ¶ 20(d).
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and factors).  In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  did  not  mitigate  the  security
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  f.:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
