Applicant is 45 years old. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in August 2001. He served
on  active  duty  until  he  received  an  honorable  discharge  in  December  2006.  In  March
2007,  he  joined  the  Army  National  Guard,  and  he  continues  his military  service  to  the
present time. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2010. He married in March 2011 and his
divorce was finalized in August 2019. He has a daughter, age 12. Since October 2014,
he  has  been  employed  by  a  federal  contractor  as  a  systems  technician.  He  has
possessed a DOD security clearance since approximately 2014. (Item 3)
Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant is indebted to 14 creditors for
delinquent  accounts  totaling  approximately  $64,400.  Applicant’s  admissions  and  the
credit bureau reports in evidence support the SOR Guideline F allegations.
Applicant  completed  his security  clearance application  (SCA) in  February 2020,
and he disclosed one delinquent personal loan in the amount of $5,000. During his April
2020  background  interview,  Applicant  told  the  authorized  DOD  investigator  that  his
security clearance was administratively suspended in February 2020 because he had not
turned  in  a  completed  SCA,  as  requested.  Once  he  turned  in  the  SCA,  his  security
clearance was reinstated in March 2020. He also told the investigator that his wages were
being garnished by another creditor in the amount of about $900 monthly. When asked
about  any  other  delinquent  accounts,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  unable  to  collect
enough information on his delinquent debts due to the limited amount of time he had to
turn in his SCA. (Item 4)
The  investigator confronted  Applicant  with  several outstanding accounts  obtained
from  a  credit  report.  Applicant  stated  that  beginning  in  2015, he  traveled  frequently out-
of-state  to  care for his elderly parents.  The  traveling  and  medical expenses over the  years
contributed   to   his  financial  problems.  In   2018,  he   attempted   to   use   a   consumer  credit
counseling   service   to   consolidate   his   debts,  but  he   soon   learned   the   service   used
negotiated  settlements  to  resolve delinquent debts. He withdrew from  the  program,  and
he was unable to make payments on his delinquent accounts. He currently works full time
and has the financial means to make payments on these accounts.  (Items 3 and 4)
Based on the credit reports in evidence, Applicant has experienced financial issues
for at least two decades. In January 2005, the Army made a preliminary decision to deny
his security clearance. His security clearance was ultimately granted on appeal, and he
was  issued  a  warning  that  subsequent  unfavorable  information  may  result  in  the
suspension of his security clearance. (Items 3, 4, 10, 11 and 12)
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct
Applicant has been arrested five times since 1998. At least three of these arrests
involved  alcohol.  In  November  1998,  he  was  arrested  for  Driving  Under  the  Influence
(DUI) after he drove his car into another vehicle. He entered into a diversion program with
conditions, to include alcohol education, 90-day license suspension, and a $1,029 fine.
(SOR ¶ 2.a.)
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant was arrested for his second DUI in May 2005. He
admitted at the time of his arrest he had consumed about six or seven beers and failed a
sobriety test. His blood alcohol content tested three times over the legal limit. Applicant
pleaded guilty, and he was sentenced to three days in the workhouse, fined, and placed
on probation for one year.
In  June  2011,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  domestic  assault.  During  a  2014
interview, he admitted having grabbed his then-spouse during an argument. During his
current investigation, he denied any physical violence related to the incident. The charge
against  Applicant  was  dismissed  after  he  completed  an  anger  management  program.
(SOR ¶ 3.a.)
SOR ¶ 2.c alleges that Applicant was arrested for his third DUI in June 2017. He
admitted drinking one shot of whiskey and four or five beers before driving home. This
arrest occurred despite Applicant’s previous declaration following his second DUI that he
would never drink and drive again.
SOR ¶ 3.b alleges that Applicant was arrested in the early morning hours of March
22, 2020, for fleeing the scene of an auto collision. He initially stated that he had struck
an  unknown  co-worker’s  car  while  leaving  the  office.  In  response  to  a  government
interrogatory, Applicant stated that he was following his friend “back from my house to my
girlfriend’s  house”  when  at  approximately  2:30  a.m.  he  struck  his  friend’s  car  while
attempting to pass him. Rather than speak to his friend about the accident at the scene,
he stated:
I  tried   to   call   [my   friend]  hoping   we  could   talk  on   the   phone   about  the
damages. I didn’t  receive  [an]  answer so  I  headed  home.  On  my way home
I received  a  call  from  the  [local] police  department saying  I fled  the  scene  of
an   accident.   I  explain[ed]   I  didn’t   [and]   I   would  give   my  statement   in  the
morning. I  kept driving  to  my house  under the  impression  everything  was
OK. When  I got to  [my] house  there were  two  sheriff’s deputies waiting  for
me  at  my house.  I  sat  in the  vehicle  for quite  some  time;  they  let  me  go  to
the  bathroom  in my house  and  I sat and  waited. Around  3:00  [a.m.]  the[y]
told me I was being arrested for leaving  the scene  of an  accident. (Item  4)
Applicant denied alcohol was a factor in the incident but admitted he continues to
regularly  consume  alcohol.  There  was  no  explanation  given  for  his  inconsistent
statement concerning the accident. (Item 4)
