Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-d  in  his  Answer  to  the  SOR.  He  did  not
specifically admit or deny ¶ 2.a, which referenced SOR ¶ 1.d under Guideline J.  I will
interpret his omission as a denial. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2010. He married his
wife  in  2012,  and  they  have  twins,  age  10.  Since  September  2014,  he  has  been
employed  by  a  federal  contractor  as  a  quality  assurance  analyst.  Applicant  currently
possesses a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 14-17; GE 1)
In  his  August  2020 SCA,  Applicant disclosed  that  he  used marijuana  daily  from
June 2019 to November 2019, while he possessed a DOD security clearance. He listed
that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  because  it  is  unhealthy.  He
purchased  marijuana  on  a  monthly  basis  from  June  2019  to  November  2019.  He also
listed that he was arrested in November 2019 for felonious possession of marijuana and
felonious  distribution  of  marijuana.  He  was  still  awaiting  trial  for  these  charges  at  the
time he completed his SCA. (Tr. 18-21; GE 1)
In  December  2020,  Applicant  participated  in  a  background  interview  with  an
authorized DOD investigator. Applicant provided details about his use of marijuana and
stated that he would smoke about one or two puffs a day, approximately half of a gram
of  marijuana.  He  used  marijuana  to  relieve  his  stress.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he
would purchase marijuana from “pop up” parties near his residence. These events were
held  in  a  market  setting  where  customers  could  purchase  an  item  and  then  the
individual  was  “gifted”  with  free  marijuana.  Applicant  estimated  that  he  spent  $200  a
month for marijuana, and he had no intention of using marijuana again in the future. He
researched other ways to relieve stress, and he currently uses meditation and binaural
beats, that have significantly reduced his tension. (GE 2; Tr. 23-25, 41)
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that,  when  he  was  stopped  by  police  in
November  2019,  he  had  about  one-and-a-half  ounces  of  individually  packaged
marijuana  and  several  smoking  devices  in  his  backpack.  The  police  also  found
concentrated tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in a wax form. He had recently purchased the
marijuana  and  believed  the  amount  would  satisfy  his  marijuana  needs  for  about  one
month.  He  admitted  that  he  smoked  marijuana more frequently on the  weekends, and
sometimes he added the concentrated THC to his marijuana. The police also found that
Applicant  possessed  a  large  amount  of  cash  in  large  denominations,  approximately
$900.  Applicant  stated  that  his  parents  taught  him  to  always  carry  a  large  amount  of
money. He normally carries around $200 to $300 cash on him, but he had extra money
in  his  possession because he  had  just  won approximately  $500  from  a  sports bet.  He
denied  that  he  was  selling  marijuana.  He  admitted  that  he  was  aware  marijuana  was
illegal  under  federal  and  state  law  and  violated  the  requirements  for  individuals
possessing security clearances. He reported his arrest to his employer’s security officer.
He attended Narcotics Anonymous for six months, participated in drug screenings, and
he  completed  over  180  hours  of  community  service.  The  court  dismissed  the  charges
against him. (Tr. 26-37, 39-42; GE 3, GE 4, GE 5)
Applicant testified that he stopped using marijuana in November 2019 only after
he  had  been  arrested.  He  admitted  that  if  he  had  not  been  arrested,  he  most  likely
would  have  continued  using  marijuana.  The  arrest  was  a  wake-up  call.  Although  he
possessed  a  DOD  security  clearance,  he  did  not  report  his  previous  use  and
possession of marijuana to his security officer until after his arrest. (Tr. 36-37; GE 1)
Applicant  provided  a  character  reference  letter  from  his  team  manager,  who
described  Applicant  as  an  effective  leader  of  the  team.  He  has  no  reservations  about
Applicant’s  character,  responsibility,  or  patriotism.  The  team  manager  did  not  state  in
his letter whether he was aware of Applicant’s illegal drug use. Applicant also submitted
an April 20, 2023, drug screen certificate which showed no drugs were detected in his
urine. (AE A and AE B)
