Applicant  is  a  28-year-old,  married  man  with  one  child.  He  has  a  high  school
education and has been working for the past seven years as a sheet metal worker for a
ship building company. (Tr. 26) He was recently promoted to foreman. (Tr. 21) He has held
a security clearance since 2015. (Tr. 16)
Applicant used marijuana up to four days per week from about 2011 to 2018. (GE 2
at  6)  During  the  last  three  years  of  his  marijuana  use,  he  held  a  security  clearance.
Applicant’s use of marijuana led to two arrests. Specifically, in June 2014, he was arrested
and charged with misdemeanor possession of marijuana. Subsequently, he pleaded guilty
and was placed on probation for six months and ordered to perform 24 hours of community
service. (GE 2 at 7) As part of his probation, his driver’s license was suspended for six
months. Applicant successfully completed the probation.
In 2016, a police officer pulled over Applicant’s automobile when he noticed that his
inspection sticker had expired. When the officer spoke to Applicant, he noticed that the car
smelled like marijuana, prompting him to search it. After noticing a small mason jar filled
with  marijuana,  the  officer  arrested  Applicant  and  charged  him  with  misdemeanor
possession  of  marijuana.  (Item  2  at  8;  Tr.  23)  A  few  months  later,  the  court  deferred
judgment  for  six months  and  placed  Applicant  on  probation  during  that  time.  While  on
probation,  Applicant’s  driver’s  license  was  suspended,  he  was  to  perform  32  hours  of
community service, complete random drug tests, and his driver’s license was restricted.
(GE 4 at 2) Applicant did not complete the community services hours as ordered, and he
failed two random drug tests. His non-compliance with the terms of probation prompted the
court to find him guilty of the charge. (GE 2 at 8)
One evening in March 2017, while driving home from a party where he had been
drinking alcohol, Applicant fell asleep at the wheel after stopping at a red light. The driver of
the car behind Applicant’s car exited his vehicle and knocked on Applicant’s driver-side
window.  When  Applicant  did  not  awaken,  the  driver  of  the  other  car  called  the  fire
department. When a fire truck arrived, the firefighters knocked on the window, then broke it
after Applicant did not respond. Applicant still did not wake up. By the time Applicant woke
up, a police officer had arrived and administered a breathalyzer, which he failed. Applicant
was arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI). (GE 2 at 9)
After pleading guilty to the offense, Applicant was fined $500, ordered to complete alcohol
and drug counseling, attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings, required to install an
ignition interlock device for a period of six months, and sentenced to 30 days’ incarceration
(suspended). (Answer at 2) Applicant complied with the requirements of the court order.
(Tr. 25)
Applicant reduced his alcohol consumption significantly after the DUI arrest. Now, he
drinks approximately three drinks per month. (Item 2 at 7) Applicant has not used marijuana
since December 2018, and no longer associates with his friends who use marijuana. (Item
2 at 6) He attributes his use to immaturity, acknowledged that he was “in the wrong,” and
testified that it “didn’t register that [he] would have future issues,” if he continued to use
marijuana.” (Tr. 28)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  November  2018.  He
underreported his use of marijuana, estimating that he had used it a few times between
August 2011 and December 2012, when in fact he was using it occasionally at the time he
completed the application. (Answer at 2; Tr. 30) Applicant also falsified his answer to the
question asking about drug use while possessing a security clearance by answering “No,”
and failed to disclose his marijuana use within that context. (Answer at 3) Applicant admits
these allegations, explaining that he was “scared and . . . overthinking” when he completed
the  application.  In  response  to  a  question  concerning  whether  he  would  ever  use  any
marijuana in the future, Applicant responded, “I don’t intend on using this substance EVER
[emphasis provided by Applicant] because I am an employee at the [company].” (Tr. 34) He
continued  to  use  marijuana  for  approximately  one  month  after  completing  the  security
clearance application.
