Applicant is 63 years old and single. She has a bachelor’s degree and a master’s
degree.  She  has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  2017  as  a  software
engineer and is attempting to retain a security clearance in relation to her employment.
She has worked in the defense industry since approximately 1987 and has held a security
clearance since approximately 1999. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and
25; Applicant Exhibits E and I.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions)
The DoD CAF alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is not eligible
for access because she has an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair
her judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. Applicant admitted both subparagraphs with
explanations.
As a preliminary matter, Applicant admits being under mental health treatment for
about 30  to 40 years, beginning when she was in college. This treatment consisted  of
both medication treatment and mental-health therapy. However, the record is sparse as
to the extent of any treatment before 2020. Applicant was very vague during her testimony
about her mental health condition and therapy. She admitted having a psychiatrist and
psychologist  treating  her  in  State  A  before  moving  to  State  B,  her  current  state  of
residence, in 2017. However, her testimony ended at that point. She also admitted that
she was getting prescribed medication from a medical provider in State B before the 2020
incident  described  below,  but  was  unable  to  tell  me  whether  this  person  was  a
psychiatrist. Much of the information about her prior mental health history was obtained
by a DoD mental health consultant  (MHC) and is contained in her report,  Government
Exhibit 2, further discussed under Paragraph 2, below. (Tr. 31-33, 43.)
1.a.  Applicant  was  involuntarily  hospitalized  for  mental-health  treatment  for  two
weeks starting January 22, 2020. She had been arrested by police on that day because
she  had  been  knocking  on  random  peoples’  doors  attempting  to  gain  entry.  She  was
threatening to “stomp” the wife of an ex-boyfriend of hers from 40 years before and teach
that person a  lesson. During  the  course of the hospitalization  she was  diagnosed with
Schizoaffective Disorder, Bipolar Type. After two weeks she was able to be discharged
in fair condition. (Government Exhibit 2 at 5-6, Exhibit 3; Tr. 30-31, 33-37.)
The intake notes stated the following:
During  the  interview  the  patient  [Applicant]  was  hyperverbal,  quite
disorganized with labile mood, laughing inappropriately, continued to make
threatening  remarks  to  others  and  at  this  point  is  too  unpredictable  and
confused  to  be  safely  managed  at  the  lower  level  of  care.  (Government
Exhibit 3 at 1.)
Applicant testified that she had little to no memory of the incidents that led to her
involuntary hospitalization. She testified that before those incidents she had been feeling
ill  and  believes  she  threw  up  her  medications.  She  also  did  not  describe  in  detail  the
course of hospitalization. (Tr. 26-27, 33, 38-42.)
1.b. Applicant received an evaluation from MHC in November 2021. The consultant
interviewed  Applicant,  conducted  a  screening  test,  and  reviewed  her  mental  health
records.  She  diagnosed  Applicant  as  suffering  from  a  Schizoaffective  Disorder.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
MHC’s
OBSERVATIONS:
report  stated
the
following  under
the  heading  BEHAVIORAL
Upon  initiation  of  the  interview,  [Applicant]  presented  with  an  upbeat,
chipper, and  playful  tone.  Her demeanor  was  highly  childlike,  particularly
apparent through her use of language. Her affect was incongruent with what
would  be  expected  given  the  circumstances  for  the  assessment.  She
appeared  disoriented  and  disconnected  at  various  points  throughout  the
interview,  and  her  thoughts  were  highly disorganized.  Her  thoughts  were
often difficult to follow, and many of her narratives required clarification.
While  [Applicant]  expressed  a  history  of  engagement  in  therapy,  self-
reflection,  and  healing,  she  appears  to  present  with  limited  insight
surrounding her mental health functioning. Though she spoke openly about
a trauma history, her awareness of her history of psychotic symptoms was
minimal. She has a history of impaired judgment, stemming from apparent
distortions in perception, information gathered through the clinical interview
was  disorganized  and  periodically  incoherent,  contributing  to  difficulty
establishing  a  clear  understanding  of  [Applicant’s]  mental  health  history.
(Government Exhibit 2 at 8.)
MHC stated the following under the heading DIAGNOSTIC IMPRESSIONS AND
PROGNOSIS:
The   assessment  sought  to   clarify  [Applicant’s]  current  level  of   emotional
functioning,  given   her  recent  inpatient  hospitalization   in  2020.   While
[Applicant’s]  mental  health   appeared   to   decompensate   in   response   to
increasing  stressors surrounding  the  COVID-19  pandemic, the  assessment
revealed   longstanding   patterns   of  instability  in  mood,   distortion   in
perception, and  interpersonal issues for [Applicant]. She  is currently actively
engaged   in   psychiatric  care   with   a   nurse   practitioner,   and   [Applicant]   is
taking   her  medications  as  prescribed   in  order  to   manage   her  mood   and
psychotic   symptoms.   It   is   noteworthy   that   she   presents   with   incredibly
limited   insight  around   her   history  of  psychosis,  which   is  common   for
individuals   with   delusional   ideation.   At  present,   [Applicant]   denied   any
current  symptoms   to   suggest  an   active   mood   episode,  such   as  a
depressive,  manic,  or  hypomanic  state.  As   psychotic  symptoms   were
evident in  the  absence  of a  mood  episode, the  current assessment supports
her previous   diagnosis   of   Schizoaffective   Disorder.  Though   she   does  not
appear to  be  at  an  acute  risk for acting  erratically or harming  herself,  she
continues to  present with  disorganized  thinking  and  distortions in perception
that warrant concern regarding  her current functioning. Her prognosis  is fair,
given the nature of her mental health issues.  (Government Exhibit 2  at 10.)
(Emphasis in original.)
MHC stated her CONSLUSIONS:
Based  on  information  gathered  through  the  assessment,  [Applicant]
presents with a  significant mental health history with active  indications  of
delusional ideation and disorganization in thinking. Due to her distortions in
perception, there are considerable concerns about her judgment, reliability,
and  trustworthiness  at  this  time,  as  well  as  her  long-term  prognosis.
(Government Exhibit 2 at 10.)
Applicant began seeing an Adult Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (NP)
after her discharge from the mental hospital in January 2020. NP’s CV is Applicant Exhibit
K. NP prescribes medication for Applicant to attempt to control her condition. NP sees
Applicant every one to two months for medication control and therapy. (Tr. 37, 43-44.)
NP submitted  a written statement dated  September 1, 2022. (Applicant Exhibit J.)
She  stated, “In  the  time  that I have  been  working  with  her [Applicant],  she  has  maintained
psychiatric stability on  the  current medication  regimen.” She  concludes  that her  working
diagnosis for Applicant  is: “Posttraumatic  Stress Disorder.”  (Emphasis in original.)
NP’s statement goes on:
Symptom  history  includes:  unwanted  persistent  memories,  emotional
distress after exposure to traumatic reminders, avoidance of trauma related
thoughts or feelings and external reminders, negative affect, exaggerated
blame  of  self  for  causing  the  trauma,  hypervigilance,  heightened  startle
reaction,  destructive  behavior,  and  dissociation.  These  symptoms  have
persisted since childhood in varying capacities.
She has been treated for these symptoms with  psychotropic medications
and individual therapy and has developed great insight over time. She has
learned  to  manage  her  symptoms,  many  of  which  have  completely
subsided, in a way that has allowed her to live a comfortable and successful
life with no known deficits in her employment or personal life to date.
NP  submitted  a  second  statement  after  the  hearing.  (Applicant  Exhibit  L.)  The
document stated in pertinent part:
After review of document Guideline I, it is in my assessment that [Applicant]
has  maintained  steady  medication  and  treatment  compliance  voluntarily
since  her  release  from  the  hospital  in  January  2020.  Her  psychiatric
symptoms have remained well controlled and in remission because of her
commitment to this treatment. She meets with me monthly and prognosis is
good.
Based on her presentation and treatment progress over the past 2½ years,
I  have  no  reason  to  believe  that  she  would  experience  a  relapse  of
symptoms similar to the episode experienced in January 2020 as long as
she maintains compliance with medications and mental health treatment.
Applicant testified  that the  incident in January 2020  was a  “Singular incident.  One-
time   thing.”  She   further  testified   that  nothing   like   that  had   occurred   before  or  after  the
incident. (Tr. 44.)
In  conclusion  Applicant  stated,  “I  believe  I  deserve a  Security Clearance.  I’ve  done
nothing   wrong,  and   I’m   a   credit  to   having   a   Security  Clearance.   And   I’m   safe   with
classified information. I’m trustworthy with classified information.” (Tr. 45.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted  documentation  showing  that she  is a  respected  and  effective
software   engineer.  Her  evaluations  show  ratings  of  “Successful  Performer.”   She   has
received  performance  awards from  her employer. (Applicant Exhibits A, B, C, D,  F, and
H.)
