Applicant,  43,  works  in  computer  maintenance  and  is  currently  employed  by  a
federal  contractor  since  January  2022.  She  previously  worked  for  the  same  federal
contractor from November 2019 until June 2021.  She married in 2003 and divorced in
2013. This is her first application for a security clearance. (GX 3; GX 4.)
The  SOR  alleges  four  debts  totaling  $63,562.  The  debts  are  comprised  of  a
personal loan and two credit cards owed to the same creditor and a $143 debt owed to a
cable company. In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admits the three debts owed to the
same creditor and denies the debt owed to the cable company stating that she has paid
it.  The  delinquent  debts  are  reflected  in  Applicant’s  March  2022  credit-bureau  report
(CBR). (GX 5.) She also discussed her delinquent debts during her April 2022 personal
subject interview (PSI). (GX 4.) Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my findings of
fact.
From  March  2007  until  March  2012,  Applicant  was  employed  by  a  federal
contractor  overseas.  When  she  returned  to  the  United  States  in  2012,  her  income
decreased  significantly.  Following  her divorce  in  2013,  Applicant’s minor children  lived
with her and she was primarily responsible for all of their care. This created even greater
financial strain. Applicant stated in her PSI that during the period between 2012 and 2019
she  struggled  financially  due  to  her  decreased  income,  her  increased  financial
responsibilities,  including  medical  bills  for  one  of  her  children,  who  suffered  from  an
illness. (GX 4.)
In  2011,  while  employed  overseas,  Applicant  opened  a  personal  credit-card
account. She routinely used this card and made on-time payments. After returning to the
United States, Applicant began using her credit  card for necessary  living expenses.  In
2013,  Applicant  opened  a  second  personal  credit-card  account  with  the  same  creditor
that she used in an effort to maintain her financial obligations in the wake of her divorce.
In  2014,  Applicant  obtained  a  personal  loan  through  the  same  creditor.  Because  she
required  a  vehicle  to  maintain  employment  and  care  for  her  children,  she  used  the
proceeds of this loan to pay off her vehicle loan as well as to maintain her other financial
obligations. (GX 4; GX 5; GX 6; Answer.)
Between March 2012 and December 2017, Applicant was employed in low-paying
positions outside of her professional field of expertise. By March 2016, she was no longer
able to maintain the payments on her two credit-card accounts and on her personal loan.
Applicant contacted the creditor and explained her circumstances, but was not in position
to resolve the accounts, and defaulted on each of the accounts. These are the delinquent
accounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. These accounts have been charged off. (GX
3; GX 4; GX 5; GX 6.)
Despite  her  efforts  to  find  employment,  the  job  market  was  difficult  in  the  area
where  Applicant  and  her  children  resided.  Applicant  was  unemployed  from  December
2017  until  August  2018.  From  August  2018  until  November  2019,  Applicant  was
employed part time in a low-paying job. In November 2019, she gained employment with
a federal contractor in an overseas position in her field of expertise. She discontinued her
cable service, paid her final bill, and returned the equipment to the company. The creditor
of  the  $134  debt alleged  in SOR  ¶ 1.d is this  cable  company.  Applicant  contacted the
creditor and disputed the debt as indicated on GX 5. In her answer to the SOR in her
response to the FORM, Applicant again stated that she had contacted this creditor. The
debt does not appear on her December 2022 CBR. This account has been resolved.
Between  November  2019  and  mid-2021,  Applicant  submitted  an  e-QIP  several
times.  However,  her  federal-contractor  employer  terminated  her  in  June  2021  without
the  DOD  Consolidated
termination,  Applicant  contacted
explanation.  After  her
Adjudications Facility (CAF) for information regarding the status of her security clearance
processing.  The  DOD  CAF  contacted  her  employer,  who  stated  that  the  reason  for
Applicant’s termination was that there was an internal administrative issue that resulted
in  her  e-QIP  not  being  properly  completed  or  submitted,  that  resulted  in  the
discontinuation of their sponsorship. (GX 3; GX 4.)
Following  her  termination,  Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States.  She  was
unemployed from June 2021 until January 2022 when she regained employment with her
prior federal contractor employer. She has returned to her overseas position. However,
she  is  experiencing  the  same  difficulties  as  she  previously  experienced  as  she  awaits
resolution of her security clearance status. In an effort to maintain her employment, she
has been using her vacation leave, approved administrative leave, and has taken a leave
of absence. (GX 3; Response.)
Despite  the  financial  difficulties  that  Applicant  experienced  between  2012  and
2019, she has not had any additional delinquent accounts since 2013. Her children are
now adults and she is no longer financially responsible for them. Applicant understands
that  she  is  responsible  for  repaying  these  accounts  and  considers  resolving  them  a
priority. (GX 5; GX 6; GX 4; Response.)
