In  Applicant's  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  2.b,  and  4.b.  He
admitted SOR ¶ 4.c, but with an explanation that I construe as a denial. He denied SOR
¶  1.b.  He  also  admitted  the  cross-allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  2.a,  3.a,  and  4.a,  also  with
explanations. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful  review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  49-year-old  aviation  mechanic  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since July 2005. (Item 2 at 7, 13.) He has held a security clearance since 2008. (Item 2
at 32.)  He married in October 1995 and divorced in May 1998. He has two adult children.
(Item 2 at 17 and 20-21.)
April  2017  arrest and charge  of  possession  of  marijuana  (SOR ¶¶  1.a, 2.a, 4.a
and 4.c). Applicant admitted in his Answer to being arrested and charged with possession
of  marijuana.  In  his  SCA  he  admitted  to  pleading  guilty  to  possession  of  a  controlled
substance and noted that the possession of marijuana charge was dropped. He stated in
his SCA that “there is a plea of guilty as I was not allowed to plead no contest.” (Item 2 at
27-28.) He was sentenced to 18 months of community supervision, to participate in 50
hours of community service, and pay a fine of $968. (Item 2 at 26, 27, 28, and  29.) He
stated in his background interview he did not know the entirety of what he was charged
with  possessing  but  then  admitted  he  pled  guilty  because  he  was  advised  he  was
fortunate to not have a felony charge. (Item 3 at 5-6.) He states in his SCA this charge
was false and the person who accused him of sexual assault could not recant this offense
because they could risk being charged with a crime. (Item 2 at 37.)
April   2017   use   and/or  possession  of   marijuana   with   vary   frequency   while
granted access   to   classified information   (SOR  ¶¶ 1.b, 4.a).
Applicant pled guilty  to
possession of marijuana in his residence. (Item 2 at 9.) The police recovered a bag of
marijuana  in  plain  view,  along  with  a  water  bong in  the  master  bedroom.  The  police
recovered a vaporizer bong hidden behind a closed master bathroom door. (Item 4 at 57.)
The police deployed a trained narcotics dog who alerted in several areas of the home and
Applicant’s  vehicle.  (Item  4  at  16,  57.)  The  police  recovered  marijuana  in  the  kitchen
refrigerator, kitchen freezer, and in a downstairs bedroom. The police also recovered drug
paraphernalia.  Applicant  states  in  an   interrogatory  response   that  “any  and   all
paraphernalia  was isolated  to  back room  where [his girlfriend] was allowed  to  smoke  only
and outside.” (Item  3  at 2.) He  said  he  was not aware  of the marijuana  in  the  refrigerator
until it was reported  to  him. (Item  3  at 2.)  He initially denied  knowledge  of any drugs in his
home  until the  interviewing  agent asked  about the  drugs found  in  plain  view. (Item  3  at
5.)  The  arrest complaint was for a  “State  Jail  Felony” in the  1st  degree  for the  marijuana
seized  in freezer. (Item  4  at 38.) A  second  arrest complaint,  for a  class A  misdemeanor.
was issued  for other forms of  marijuana  found  in the  house. (Item  4  at 40.)  Applicant  was
ordered  as part of his sentence  to  participate  in the  state’s  drug  offender program. (Item
2   at  28.)  During   his background   interview   he   told  the   investigator he   pled   guilty  to   the
misdemeanor charges  in 2018  to  avoid being  charged  with  felony offenses.  (Item  3  at 6.)
He stated  he  passed  his employer’s drug  tests. (Item  at 6.)  He was granted  a  clearance
in July 2011. (Item 2 at 32.)
April  2017  arrest and  charges of  aggravated assault with a  deadly  weapon
and sexual assault.  (SOR ¶  2.b, and, as  to  the  arrest and charge  of  sexual assault,
SOR  ¶   3.a)  Applicant  admitted  to  being  arrested  and  charged  for  the  offenses  of
aggravated assault with a deadly weapon and sexual assault. He denied the underlying
conduct,  noting  that  the  alleged  victim  recanted  her  statement  and  that  the  grand  jury
returned a “No Bill.” (Answer). The alleged victim reported the sexual assault in April 2017
and told the police the incident took place in March 2017. The police officer noted while
taking the statement the alleged victim described an assault with a pistol that had taken
place in January 2017. (Item 4 at 57.) Police recovered two firearms in an upstairs workout
room closet with various magazines as well as a 9mm pistol with one magazine loaded.
(Item 4 at 57-58.) The inventory description lists two locations where the 9mm pistol was
recovered, the vehicle’s side door pocket and the upstairs workout room. (Item 4 at 58.)
The grand jury returned a “No Bill” on both charges. (Item 2 at 28.)
SOR  ¶   4.b:   failed  to   report  [or]  failed  to   fully   disclose   to   Facility   Security
Officer.  Applicant admitted in his Answer and during his background interview he did not
fully  disclose  the  sexual assault  allegation  when  asked.  (Item  3  at 6.)  He  states  in  his
Answer he thought because the security officer was a woman, and by her demeanor, he
was being judged. In his Answer, he admits he did not fully disclose because he did not
know  how  to  explain  to  the  woman  “what  did  not  happen  versus  what  was  already
implied.” In his Answer he states he did call the same day because he knew he needed
to relay what he did not provide and explain why he felt intimidated. He requested a male
security officer be at next meeting. He adds he provided all the information he failed to
provide at the next meeting. During his background interview he told the investigator he
would have reported the additional charges at the correct time had the security official
been a male. (Item 3 at 6.)
SOR ¶  4.c: Failure  to  disclose  April  2017  drug arrest on his  SCA.  Applicant
denied  he  deliberately  falsified  his  answer  to  Question  23  of  his  SCA,  which  asked
whether  he  had  used  or  otherwise  been  illegally  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled
substance not previously listed, on the basis he had already addressed the April 2017
incident in the SCA. He addressed the conduct in his SCA responses. (Item 2 at 27-28.)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  he  did  not  provide  any  updated
evidence  to  be  considered  in  mitigation.  He  also  provided  no  character  evidence  for
consideration under the whole-person concept.
