The  two  allegations  in  the  SOR  concern  Applicant’s  family  members  in  Jordan
(SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  his  financial  support  for  them  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
largely  admitted  both  allegations,  with  explanations.  His  admissions  are  incorporated
into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  was  born  in  Kuwait  but  was  granted  Jordanian
citizenship  at  birth  as  both  of  his  parents  are  citizens  of  Jordan.  The  record  does  not
reflect when his family moved back to Jordan.  However, in 2005, Applicant earned his
undergraduate degree at a university in Jordan. He came to the United States in 2007,
at  the  age  of  25,  and  began  working  in  the  banking  industry.  In  2012,  he  became  a
naturalized  United  States  citizen,  based on his own  application.  He  earned  a  master’s
degree  in  2017  from  a  university  in  the  United  States.  He  has  worked  for  his  current
employer since 2019 and is a senior analytics consultant. (GX 2-3)
Applicant married in 2013. At the time, his wife was a citizen of Syria. In 2014, he
sponsored her immigration to the United States. She later became a naturalized United
States  citizen.  They  have  two  young  children,  both  native-born  United  States  citizens.
(GX 2-3; Answer)
On  his  January  2020  e-QIP  and  during  his  March  2020  background  interview,
Applicant  disclosed  several family  members who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Jordan.
He  described  his  family  as  “very  close”  and  that  he  maintained  regular  and  frequent
contact with them. He also provided some financial support to them when needed. None
of his family members is affiliated with a foreign government or foreign military. (GX 2-3)
Applicant also disclosed that he travelled to Jordan three times in 2013 and twice
in  2018.  He visited his family  on each of his trips.  There is no record  evidence of  any
more recent travel to Jordan. (GX 2)
Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Jordan.  They  are  in
their  late  70s  and  retired.  His  father  owned  a  small  business  and  his  mother  was  a
homemaker. Applicant has weekly contact with his parents, primarily by phone. He has
provided them financial support over the years, usually in $200 increments and totaling
about $3,000. (GX 2-3; Answer)
Applicant  also  has  two  sisters  (S1  and  S2)  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Jordan. Both are married, have children and are homemakers. Applicant communicates
with  them  daily,  primarily  through  a  digital  messaging  application.  He  estimated  that,
over  several  years,  he  provided  about  $600  in  financial  support  to  one  of  his  sisters.
(GX 2-3; Answer)
Applicant  has  one  brother  (B1)  who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Jordan.  This
brother  works  in  a  drugstore.  Applicant  communicates  with  B1  every  few  months,
primarily through a digital messaging application. (GX 2-3; Answer)
Another  of  Applicant’s  brothers  (B2)  is  a  Jordanian  citizen  who  lives  in  Saudi
Arabia (and not in Jordan, as alleged). B2 is married and has two children. He works in
a  trade  organization.  Applicant  communicates  with  B2  daily,  primarily through  a digital
messaging application. (GX 2-3; Answer)
Applicant  also  has  a  brother  (B3)  and  sister  (S3)  who  are  dual  U.S.-Jordanian
citizens  who  live  in  the  United  States.  B3  lives  near Applicant.  S3  is married,  has  five
children and lives in another state. (GX 2-3; Answer)
In his Answer, Applicant stated  he  maintained  a  “balanced  relationship” with  his
family  in  Jordan  and  was  committed  to  being  a  “model U.S.  citizen.”  He  described his
financial  support  to  his  family  in  Jordan  as  a  “gesture  of  love”  that  came  with  no
obligations or commitments. (Answer)
Applicant  also  included  in  his  Answer  two  reference  letters  from  character
witnesses  who  stated  that  he  is  a  reliable,  valued  and  trustworthy  associate.  In  his
FORM  Response,  Applicant  summarized  his  professional  achievements  and
responsibilities as  a  team  leader within  his company. He  cited  his conduct,  ethics and
dedication to the DOD mission he was working. (AX A; FORM Response)
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan)
Jordan  is  a  constitutional  monarchy  ruled  by  King  Abdullah  II  bin  Hussein.  The
king has ultimate executive and legislative authority. The multiparty parliament consists
of  a  popularly  elected  House  of  Representatives  and  a  Senate  appointed  by  the  king.
The Public Security Directorate has responsibility for law enforcement and reports to the
Ministry  of  Interior.  The  Public  Security  Directorate  and  the  General  Intelligence
internal  security.  The  General
for  maintaining
Directorate  share  responsibility
Intelligence  Directorate  reports  directly  to  the  king.  The  armed  forces  have  a  support
role for internal security.  Civilian authorities maintain effective control over the security
forces.  There  were  credible  reports  that  members  of  the  security  forces  committed
some abuses.
The  State  Department  updated  its  Country  Report  on  Terrorism  for  Jordan  in
February  2023.  The  information  is  substantially  similar  to  the  prior  report,  included  as
part  of  AN  I.  I  refer  to  the  more  recent  report  available  as  it  reflects  the  most  current
information  available.  Jordan  remained  a  committed  partner  on  counterterrorism  and
countering violent extremism. As a regional leader in the Defeat-ISIS Global Coalition,
Jordan played an important role in coalition successes in degrading the terrorist group’s
territorial  control  and  operational  reach.  Although  Jordan  did  not  experience  a
successful  terrorist  attack  in  2021,  the  country  faced  a  continued  threat  from  terrorist
(See  U.S.  State  Department,  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism  2021:
groups.
https://www.state.gov/reports/country-reports-on-terrorism-2021/ (February 27, 2023))
However, the U.S Department of State travel advisories for Jordan, last updated
in October 2022,  range from Level 2 (Exercise Increased Caution) due to terrorism, to
Level  4  (Do  Not  Travel),  depending  on  the  area  of  the  country  visited.  The  capital  of
Amman is currently assessed as being a high-threat location for terrorism directed at or
affecting  official  U.S.  Government  interests.  Transnational  and  indigenous  terrorist
groups  have  demonstrated  the  capability  to  plan  and  implement  attacks  in  Jordan.
Violent extremist groups in Syria and  Iraq, including the Islamic State of Iraq and ash-
Sham (ISIS), and al-Qaida, directly or indirectly have conducted or supported attacks in
Jordan  and  continue  to  plot  against  local  security  forces,  U.S.  Western  interests  and
“soft” targets, such as high-profile public events, hotels, places of worship, restaurants,
schools and malls. Jordan's prominent role in the Global Coalition to defeat ISIS and its
shared borders with Iraq and Syria increase the potential for future terrorist incidents.
The most recent State Department Human Rights Report for Jordan was issued
in  March  2023.  Significant  human  rights  issues  in  Jordan  included  credible  reports  of:
torture  and  other  cruel,  inhuman,  and  degrading  treatment  or  punishment  by
government  authorities;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  political  prisoners  or  detainees;
arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with  privacy;  serious  restrictions  on  freedom  of
expression  and  media,  including  harassment  and  intimidation  of  journalists,  unjustified
arrests  or  prosecutions  of  journalists,  censorship,  and  enforcement  of  and  threat  to
enforce  criminal  libel  laws;  serious  restrictions  on  internet  freedom;  substantial
interference  with  the  freedom  of  peaceful  assembly  and  freedom  of  association,
including  overly  restrictive
funding,  or  operation  of
nongovernmental  organizations  and  civil  society  organizations;  inability  of  citizens  to
elect  their  executive  branch  of  government  or  upper  house  of  parliament;  lack  of
investigation of and accountability for gender-based violence, including but not limited to
domestic  or  intimate  partner  violence,  sexual  violence,  and  other  harmful  practices;
violence  or  threats  of  violence  targeting  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  queer,  or
intersex  persons;  and  significant  restrictions  on  workers’  freedom  of  association,
including threats against labor activists. The government took some steps to investigate,
prosecute,  and  punish  officials  who  committed  human  rights  abuses;  however,
impunity  for  such  abuses  remained  widespread.  (See  U.S.  State
government
for  2022:  Jordan:
Department,  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices
https://www.state.gov/reports/2022-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/jordan/
(March 20, 2023))
the  organization,
laws  on
