Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  employee  of  a  government  contractor,  for  whom  he
has worked since May 2019. He earned a bachelor’s degree in December 2018. As of
August  2022,  he  is  enrolled  in  a  program  to  obtain  a  master’s  degree.  He  has  never
been married and has no children. He has yet to hold a security clearance. (Tr. 20-21,
90; Answer; GE 1 and 2; AE B, M)
In   April  2013,   on   his   18th   birthday,  police   arrested   Applicant   in   State   A   and
charged   him   with   driving   while  intoxicated   (DWI)   after  they   found   him   asleep   in  the
driver’s seat of his vehicle.  He  had  been drinking  at a  party that his friends threw for him
for his birthday. He drank beer and  had  at least four shots of whiskey. He blacked  out
because  of his alcohol  consumption.  The  last  thing  he  remembered  from  that night was
taking  shots of whiskey.  The next thing  he  remembered  was waking  up  in jail the  next
morning.  He pleaded  guilty to  misdemeanor  DWI.  The  court  sentenced  him  to  90  days
of   confinement   (all   suspended),   placed   him   on   probation   for  15   months,   and   ordered
him to  pay fines and costs.  He  did not undergo any alcohol counseling  or treatment  after
this  incident.   He  claimed   that  his  probation   officer  determined   that   he   did   not   need   to
take  any  alcohol counseling  after  going  over  his history with  alcohol.  (Tr.  25-32,  90-91;
Answer; GE  1-4; AE  B,  C)
In  May  2016,  police  in  State  A  arrested  Applicant  and  charged  him  with  DWI,
second and assault, causes bodily injury. He had been consuming beer all day, first on
a  boat,  and  later  with  his  stepbrother  at  the  house  where  his  stepbrother  lived.
Applicant’s  stepbrother  has  a  criminal  record  and,  at  the  time  of  the  hearing,  was  in
prison  for  selling  drugs.  At  some  point  during  the  evening,  he  and  his  stepbrother  got
into a verbal altercation that became physical. He and his stepbrother were intoxicated
when  they  fought.  It  is  unclear  from  the  record  whether  Applicant  or  his  stepbrother
started the physical portion of the fight. What is clear is that Applicant got the better of
the fight. As a result of the fight, Applicant drove his vehicle away from the house while
he was intoxicated, and his vehicle became stuck in the mud. He claimed that he drove
away  in  his  vehicle  because  his  stepbrother  would  not  stop  attacking  him.  Police
responded to his stepbrother’s house and to the location where Applicant’s vehicle was
stuck in the mud. (Tr. 32-67, 93-96, 102-104, 111-112; Answer; GE 1-3, 5; AE B, D, P)
Police  reported  that  while  they  were  investigating  the  incident,  they  had  to  tase
Applicant  multiple  times  because  he  was  combative  and  non-compliant.  Applicant
claimed that the police used unnecessary and excessive force. He refused a blood draw
and breathalyzer, but police obtained a warrant to draw his blood and test it for alcohol.
The  result of his blood test was that he had  a  .18% blood alcohol content (BAC).  The
prosecutor dropped the  assault charge. In October 2018,  Applicant pleaded guilty to a
lesser DWI charge. The court sentenced him to one day in jail and required him to pay a
$500 fine. He claimed that he has had no contact with his stepbrother in six years and
has  no  plans  to interact  with  him again.  (Tr. 32-67,  93-96, 102-104,  111-112;  Answer;
GE 1-3, 5; AE B, D, P)
In June 2020, Applicant was arrested and charged with a class c liquor violation.
He  had  been  drinking  alcohol  and  cooking  out  most  of  the  day  with  his  girlfriend.  By
about  11:00  p.m.,  he  had  consumed  about  nine  alcoholic  beverages  and  was
intoxicated. He claimed his girlfriend ordered food from a delivery service and then went
and sat in her car that was parked on the street outside his house. She was listening to
music at a high volume while she sat in the car. He claimed that he thought the music
was too loud, so he went to the car to ask her to turn it down. While he was in the public
street, he was met by the police, who had received a noise complaint. Applicant claimed
that  he  apologized  for  the  noise  and  said  that  he  told  the  police  that  he  was  heading
inside for the night. The police report indicated that Applicant initially told the police that
he had just gotten home after driving to a fast-food restaurant to get food. They claimed
that he later changed his story to having food delivered to his house after he admitted to
them that he had been drinking. The police asked him for his identification and gave him
and his girlfriend a field sobriety test, which they both failed. As they were intoxicated on
a public street, police arrested them. As a result of an error by his defense attorney, he
failed to appear at his arraignment and the court found him guilty for the liquor violation
in  his absence.  The  court fined  him,  and  he  paid  the  fine.  (Tr.  67-78,  97-98,  105-106,
116-117; Answer; GE 2, 3, 6; AE B, E)
In  March  2015,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  possession  of
marijuana after police found it in his car during a traffic stop.  He pleaded no contest to
the  charge  and  was  convicted.  He  paid  about  $900  in  court  costs  and  fines.  He  used
marijuana socially one to two times per week while he was in college from 2014 until his
March  2015  arrest.  He  stopped  using  marijuana  after  his  2015  arrest  because  he
realized  that  using  it  had  a  negative  impact  on  his  life.  He  has  not  used  illegal  drugs
since that arrest. He also transferred to a different college and stopped associating with
the  individuals  with  whom  he  used  marijuana.  The  Government  did  not  allege  this
marijuana possession arrest or use in the SOR. Any adverse information not alleged in
the SOR, such as his marijuana use or conviction for marijuana possession, will not be
considered for disqualification purposes; however, it may be considered in assessing an
applicant’s credibility; in evaluating an applicant’s evidence of extenuation, mitigation, or
changed  circumstances;  in  considering  whether  the  applicant  has  demonstrated
successful  rehabilitation;  and  in  applying  the  whole-person  concept.  (ISCR  Case  No.
15-07369 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017)). (Tr. 90-93, 104; GE 1-3)
Applicant admitted that he has a problem with alcohol, and he believes that he is
an  alcoholic.  Between  the  time  he  turned  18  until  about  May  2022,  Applicant  would
consume about three to four pints of beer one to three times per week while watching
football  with  friends  at  a  friend’s  house  or  a  sports  bar.  He  claimed  that  he  rarely
became  intoxicated  after  these  three  to  four  pints  because  of  his  larger  size  and
because he was eating food. He claimed that after his alcohol-related incidents, he has
decided to change his drinking habits and abstain from alcohol. He is more focused on
his career and realizes that alcohol has negative effects on his life.  From August 2022
until  December  2022,  he  attended  and  completed  an  outpatient  alcohol  counseling
program.  He  attended  group  therapy  twice  per  week  and  individual  counseling  with  a
psychiatrist  once  per  month.  In  June  2022,  while  attending  this  treatment  program,  a
licensed  chemical  dependency  counselor  diagnosed  him  as  having  an  alcohol  use
disorder.  Beginning  in  July  2022,  he  has  also  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings.  He  attended  AA  meetings  daily  for  43  days  straight  and  then  has  attended
them  weekly.  He  has  an  AA  sponsor  with  whom  he  also  meets  weekly.  His  sponsor,
who  has  been  sober  for  22  years,  believes  that  Applicant  can  successfully  remain
sober. He has completed the AA 12-step program. He acknowledged that the possibility
of not being awarded a  security clearance motivated him to  seek help with his alcohol
issues.  However,  he  claimed  that  his  alcohol  consumption’s  impact  on  his  security
clearance was only one of several factors that led him to seek professional assistance
and abstain from  alcohol.  He has  not  consumed alcohol since  May  2022  and  plans to
remain abstinent indefinitely. (Tr. 21-25, 79-87, 98-102, 104-105, 112, 120-124; Answer;
AE B, F-J, O)
Applicant’s  father  and   his  AA   sponsor  testified   that  they  are  there   as  a   support
system  for him  should   he  ever  have  issues with  his sobriety.  They  also attested  to  his
good   character,  as  well   as  his   sincerity   and  commitment   to  his sobriety.   He  submitted
letters   attesting   to   his   good   character,  reliability,  and   dedication.  His  employment
performance   reviews   are   positive,   and   he   has  earned   several  monetary  awards,
certificates   of   appreciation,   and   a  training   certificate.   He   volunteers  weekly  at   a   food
pantry  and  attends church with  his grandparents every week.  (Tr. 88-89,  110-115, 122-
124;  AE  K-O)
