In Applicant’s April 2022 SOR response, she denied both delinquent credit card
debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.) She acknowledged the two debts were under her name with
the credit bureaus, but she claimed that she did not initiate the debt nor authorized the
account to be taken out in her name. Her husband had a failing business and he made
poor financial decisions by financing the business with credit cards. In 2017, she became
aware of this debt and soon became the sole provider for the family  after her husband
moved in with his mother to care for her. She was actively disputing these debts with the
credit reporting agencies, and she referenced State A’s statute of limitations as additional
incentive to remove the accounts from her credit bureau reports. The combined total of
both debts is $53,143. (SOR response)
Applicant is 57 years old, and she has been employed by a federal contractor since
2010. She is an executive administrative assistant, and she currently possesses a DOD
security clearance. She has been married for 42 years and has four adult children. Her
annual salary is approximately $51,600. Her husband has not worked since late 2017,
when he became a fulltime caregiver for his disabled mother. He continues to reside with
his mother. (Tr. 25-27,53, 57; GE 1; AE G)
Financial Considerations
Applicant  testified  that  beginning  in  approximately  2006,  her  husband  stopped
working  as an aircraft electrician and started his own  business day  trading,  which  is a
form  of  speculation  in  securities.  He  registered  his  business  as  a  limited  liability
corporation (LLC). He conducted his business for about ten years, except for about a two-
year period when he returned to work as an aircraft electrician. In 2016, Applicant and
her husband began to experience financial problems due to borrowing lines of credit from
their credit cards to finance his business. (Tr. 28-31, 57-58; AE E)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant is indebted to a credit union for a credit card account
charged off as a bad debt in the approximate amount of $29,146. She has never made a
payment on this delinquent account. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 61-64; SOR response)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant is indebted to a bank for a credit card account charged
off as a bad debt in the amount of $23,997. She testified that she had used this credit
card  over  the  years.  After  it  became  delinquent,  she  never  made  a  payment  on  this
account. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 61-64; SOR response)
Both accounts are joint credit card accounts that were opened in 1986. Applicant
became aware that the accounts were delinquent in about April 2017. Her husband had
been  acting  extremely  stressed.  After  questioning  him  about  his  odd  behavior,  she
learned they were facing a large amount of delinquent debt due to him trying to cover the
losses from his unsuccessful day trading. (Tr. 34-37, 44-45; GE 2, GE 3 page 29 and 40;
AE E)
Applicant  completed  her  SCA  in  February  2021,  but  she  did  not  disclose  any
adverse financial information under Section 26 – Financial Record. In March 2021, during
her background interview with a DOD authorized investigator, she was confronted about
several delinquent financial accounts. She admitted that she and her husband had settled
one delinquent account with a credit card creditor before appearing in court. The other
overdue accounts were related to her husband’s failed business, and she had thought the
accounts were closed and had “dropped  off” the  credit reports. She disclosed that she
and her husband were currently involved in negotiations with the credit union creditor, as
set forth in SOR subparagraph 1.a, above. (GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 39)
In  September  2021,  Applicant  responded  to  financial  interrogatories.  She  listed
that she and her husband were currently working with the credit bureaus to dispute any
adverse financial information reported. In accordance with the Fair Credit Reporting Act,
the credit bureaus had 30 days to respond after receiving notice of the dispute. She listed
that when these delinquent accounts were successfully removed from their credit reports,
she would provide an updated statement of her credit standing. (GE 3 page 9; Tr. 37-38)
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  writing  to  the  credit  bureaus  on  multiple
occasions.  She  provided  a  copy  of a  December 2021  letter she  had  sent  to  the  credit
reporting  agencies  with  a  total  of  13  “unverified  accounts,”  that  she  demanded  be
removed from her credit report. The two SOR debts are listed on this letter, but there is
no explanation for the other 11 disputed accounts that were also listed. They may have
been dropped off Applicant’s credit bureau report. Applicant stated during the hearing that
both  SOR  accounts  should  no  longer  appear  on  her  credit  report beginning  in  August
2023, which marked the end of the seven-year credit reporting period. She did not intend
to initiate communication with these creditors because that would restart the seven-year
period. She was unaware if a creditor had ever sent them a 1099-C, a cancellation of debt
form, but she offered to check with her husband while the record was held open. She did
not submit documentation post-hearing as to whether they had received a 1099-C form
from any of their delinquent creditors. (Tr. 41-43, 45-47; GE 3; AE H)
Applicant provided a Personal Financial Statement (PFS) dated August 2021. After
deducting  her  monthly  expenses  and  an  additional  $480  401(k)  contribution  from  her
monthly pay, she had a net remainder of approximately $705. The PFS did not reflect any
payment to her delinquent accounts.  The PFS noted  over $210,000 in a bank savings
account;  money  received  from  the  sale  of  their  house.  She  testified  that  she  had  not
sought  the  assistance  of  a  financial  counseling  program  to  resolve  her  indebtedness.
After  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  a  new  PFS  that  showed  her  total  expenses
exceeded her monthly income by $706, which did include monthly payments of $1,560 to
the two SOR debts. She also submitted documentation that showed if she paid a total of
$1,300 monthly to these creditors through a consumer debt management program, she
still would not have enough income to make the payments in full. (GE 3 page 8; Tr. 43,
49-53; AE B, AE F)
During  cross  examination,  Applicant  admitted  that  possibly  six  other  delinquent
credit  accounts  had  dropped  off  their  credit  bureau  report  without  being  paid.  She
estimated that the amounts of these dropped-off debts were similar to the current debts
of concern in this case, possibly a little lower than approximately $30,000 each. The only
two charged-off accounts remaining on her credit report were the accounts referenced in
the  SOR  totaling  approximately  $53,000.  She  admitted  that  she  had  also  received
documentation from the credit bureaus in response to her letters of dispute. I asked her
if she had any evidence to show that she was not legally responsible for the unpaid joint
accounts with her spouse. She agreed she would provide a copy of her correspondence
from the credit bureau(s) while the record was held open; however, this documentation
was not submitted. (Tr. 61-67)
Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  several  letters  of  appreciation  from  her  employer,  and  two
character  reference  letters  from  her  supervisor  and  the  chief  executive  officer  of  the
company.  Both  references  reported  that  Applicant  is  regarded  as  an  exceptional
employee,  and  she  is  eager  to  take  on  any  challenge.  “She  approaches  tasks  with  a
positive attitude and has received favorable feedback from her customers, co-workers,
and business associates.” Both references endorsed Applicant’s continued eligibility for
a DOD security clearance. (AE A, AE L)
