Applicant  is  37  years  old.  He  has  never  been  married  and  does  not  have  any
children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2008. Since October 2009, he has worked for
a federal contractor as a lead automation engineer. This is his first application for a DOD
security clearance. (Item 2)
Drug  Involvement and Substance  Misuse
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant has used marijuana from about
January 2004 to June 2021. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He has also purchased marijuana from about
January  2004  to  June  2021.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  He  listed  this  information  on  his  June  2021
security clearance application (SCA) and admitted these allegations in his Answer. (Item
2; Answer)
In  August  2021,  Applicant  participated  in  a  background  interview  with  an
authorized DOD investigator. He stated that he first used marijuana in college,  and he
used marijuana on  a weekly basis from  approximately 2004  to  2008.  After college, he
stopped  all  use  of  marijuana  when  he  became  involved  in  the  hiring  process  with  his
current employer. He was aware that he  would be required to pass a pre-employment
drug test. He passed the drug screen and was hired in October 2009; at which time he
resumed his use of marijuana, but on a monthly basis. He used marijuana with friends
and the effects from the marijuana made him feel relaxed. His purchases of marijuana
did  not  cause  him  to  experience  financial  problems.  His  monthly  use  of  marijuana
remained consistent until June 2021. He told the investigator that he stopped marijuana
use  at  that  time  because  he  learned  that  his  employer had  sponsored  him  for  a  DOD
security  clearance.  He  is  aware  that  using  illegal  drugs  violates  federal  law  and  it  is
inconsistent with his employer’s drug policy. He has no intention of using marijuana in the
future. (Item 3)
Applicant told the investigator that he believed he had enough will power to reject
marijuana if it were offered to him because his job is more important to him than using
marijuana. He also stated that if he was not in the process of obtaining a DOD security
clearance, he would continue using marijuana, despite knowing such use violated federal
law and his employer’s drug policy. (Item 3)
Criminal Conduct
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  J  (criminal  conduct)  that  Applicant  used  and
purchased marijuana from about January 2004 to about June 2021. (SOR ¶ 2.a.)
