In  his  answer, Applicant admitted  SOR allegations  ¶¶  1.a-1.g, and  denied  SOR ¶
1.h.  His  admissions are incorporated  into  the  findings of  fact. Based  on my review of the
pleadings, evidence  submitted, and testimony, I make the following additional findings of
fact:
Applicant   is  40   years  old.   He   has  never  been   married   and   has  no   children.  He
earned   a   bachelor’s  degree   in  2005.   Since   2021   he   has   worked   overseas   as   a   civil
engineer and  functional manager for a  government contractor. (Tr. 13-15; GE 1)
Applicant was born in Iraq and lived there until he was about 30 years old.  After
completing college in Iraq in 2005, he worked for an Iraqi company in the construction
industry. In 2008, he started working for a construction company that serviced coalition
military bases in Iraq. In 2010, he was threatened twice by unknown persons for working
on coalition bases, and had to take safety precautions. In 2012, he was granted a special
immigrant  visa  (SIV)  for  his  work  on  coalition  bases,  and  he  immigrated  to  the  United
States. He was granted U.S. citizenship in 2019. (Tr. 15-77; Answer; GE 1)
From 2012 – 2018, Applicant worked for construction companies that sent him on
assignments in various overseas locations, including Iraq, for varying amounts of time.
He  reported  that  these  assignments  usually  lasted  less  than  six months  at  a  time.  He
worked in the U.S. from about 2018 – 2021, and then took a job overseas in the Middle
East, where he continues to live and work. (Tr. 15-77; Answer; GE 1)
Applicant does not own a home or have a lease for a rental property in the United
States. He asserted that he thinks of  U.S. State A as home and has a driver’s license
from there. The license lists the address of a friend from whom Applicant claims to rent a
room  on  occasion,  when  visiting  the  United  States.  However,  in  his  testimony  at  the
hearing, Applicant did not know the last name of this friend. Applicant does not have many
persons in the United States with whom he maintains close and continuing contact. He
has a U.S. bank account and a 401K retirement account, neither of which contains more
than $20,000. (Tr. 15-77; Answer; GE 1)
Applicant’s mother and six siblings, and their immediate families, are citizens and
residents of Iraq. Four siblings have jobs that are connected to the Iraqi government. In
his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  regular  and  frequent  contact  with  almost  all  of  these
immediate family members. In his testimony, he stated that he limited his communications
with almost all of his family members after applying for a security clearance, because he
thought it would assist him in obtaining  one. He claimed not to know what jobs certain
family  members  had,  or  the  jobs  of  their  adult  children,  and  he  does  not  know  if  their
employers are affiliated with the Iraqi government or military services. (Tr. 15-77; GE 1,
2)
The SOR alleges the following foreign influence concerns:
SOR  ¶   1.a   alleges  that  Applicant’s  mother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq.  He
admitted this allegation. (Tr. 15-58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.b alleges that Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq, and is
employed by a company owned and operated by the Iraqi government. He admitted this
allegation. (Tr. 15-58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.c  alleges that Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq, and is
employed by a company owned and operated by the Iraqi government. He admitted this
allegation. (Tr. 15-58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.d  alleges that Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq. (Tr. 15-
58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.e  alleges that Applicant’s sister is a  citizen  and  resident of Iraq, and  is
employed  by  an  Iraqi  government  ministry.  He  admitted  this  allegation.  (Tr.  15-58;
Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶ 1.f
alleges that  Applicant’s sister is a  citizen  and  resident of Iraq, and  is
employed by a company owned and operated by the Iraqi government. He admitted this
allegation. (Tr. 15-58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR  ¶   1.g  alleges  that  Applicant’s  sister  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq.  He
admitted this allegation. (Tr. 15-58; Answer; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.h alleges that Applicant has a financial interest, along with his siblings, in
his  family  residence  in  Iraq,  valued  at  about  $200,000.  He  denied  this  allegation.  He
stated that his sister is living with their mother at the residence, and she will inherit the
home. (Tr. 15-58; Answer)
In his answer, Applicant included four character letters which state that he is a
valued employee, reliable, trustworthy, and fit to hold a security clearance. (Answer)
Iraq
In  AN  1,  the  Government  included  information  from  the  U.S. Department of State
as  of  September   2022,  about   the   United   States’   relations  with   Iraq   and   the   current
conditions in that country. I take  administrative notice of the  following facts:
The U.S. Department of State has assessed Iraq as being a high threat, “Level 4:
Do not travel” location due to terrorism, kidnapping, armed conflict, civil unrest, and limited
ability to assist U.S. citizens in country. U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk for violence
and kidnapping. Terrorist and insurgent groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces
and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias threaten U.S. citizens and Western companies
throughout Iraq. Attacks using improvised explosive devices (IEDs) occur in many areas
of the country, including Baghdad. Demonstrations, protests, and strikes occur frequently.
These  events  can  develop  quickly  without  prior  notification,  often  interrupting  traffic,
transportation,  and  other  services;  such  events  have  the  potential  to  turn  violent.  The
travel warning as of the date of this decision remains the same.
The  country  experienced  large-scale  protests  in  Baghdad  and  several  Shia-
majority provinces beginning in 2019 and lasting through mid-2020, with reports of more
than 500 civilians killed and 20,000 or more injured. During the year sporadic protests
continued amid a campaign of targeted violence against activists. The government took
minimal steps to bring to justice those responsible for the violence.
Terrorist groups  and  those  inspired  by such  organizations are  intent  on  attacking
U.S.  citizens abroad.  Primary terrorist  threats  within   Iraq   included  Islamic State   in Iraq
and   Syria   (ISIS)  and   Iran-aligned   militia  groups.  ISIS   is  a   designated   terrorist
organization, which is active  in Syria  and  near the  Iraq  border. ISIS  and  its  associated
terrorist  groups  indiscriminately   commit   attacks  and   violent   atrocities  in   Iraq   despite
improved  Iraqi government control. ISIS, militia groups, and  criminal gangs target U.S.
citizens for attacks and hostage-taking.
There have been significant human rights issues in Iraq, including: credible reports
of  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings;  extrajudicial  killings  and  forced  disappearances  by  the
government; torture and cruel, inhumane, and degrading treatment by the government;
and arbitrary arrest and detention.
