Applicant is a 49-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since about July 2019. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016. He
married in 1995 and divorced in 2016. He and his ex-wife reconciled about a year later
and  have  lived  together  since,  but  they  have  not  remarried.  They  have  four  children,
including  one  that  was  born  after  they  reconciled.  (Transcript  (Tr.)  at  17-19,  33-35;
Applicant’s response to SOR: GE 1, 2)
Applicant  indicated  that he  was battling  untreated  depression  for  about ten  years
before   2016.   He  started   receiving   counseling   in   about  August   2016.  His   marriage   was
extremely troubled  at the  time. He and  his then  wife  lived  in the  same house  but  were
essentially  separated   and   were  dating   other   people.  On   September  3,  2016,  he   came
home  and  had  sexual intercourse with  his then  wife  without  her  consent.  (Tr. at 16, 20-
23, 27-28; GE  2-5)  Applicant testified  about  the incident  at his hearing:
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: Do you recall it happening?
APPLICANT: I did. I do. All right. At the time, my recollection of it is that, like she
said, I got home late. I was sleeping on the couch at the time, and she came out
to the living room where I was. She had -- all she had on was her underwear and
a V-Neck T-shirt, a V-Neck shirt. And she had just gotten out of the shower, and
she sat down right next to me. And I realize that, yes if she was saying no -- that I
should  have  stopped  but  I  didn't.  But,  at  that  time,  I  believe  I  felt  like  she  was
giving me an invitation because of the way she was dressed.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL:  All right. I don't think I’m in a position where I need to
Mirandize you. But is it possible that she may have said no?
APPLICANT: Yes. I believe she did, yes. Yes. (Tr. at 28-29)
On  September  4,  2016,  Applicant’s  wife  at  the  time  went  to  a  hotel.  On
September  5,  2016,  she  went  to  their  house  to  pack  items  to  take  to  her  mother’s
house, Applicant helped her by carrying some items out to her car. She reported that he
suddenly  got  angry  and  broke  a  dresser.  He  stated  that  he  accidentally  dropped  the
dresser. (Tr. at 27-28; GE 2-5)
On September 6, 2016, Applicant was “in the middle of a mental break,” and he
was brought to a mental health clinic by a woman that he was dating and his then wife.
His conduct and words were bizarre. He told the APN (advanced practice nurse) that he
hated his then wife and thought about killing her. He thought about shooting her in the
face or stabbing her. The assessments were psychosis, rule out fixed delusions; major
depression,  recurrent;  and  other  sexual  dysfunction  not  due  to  a  substance  or  known
psychological condition. Applicant was transported to a hospital, and his then wife was
informed of his threats against her and issued a strong recommendation that she seek a
protection  order  for  herself  and  her  children.  She  received  a  temporary  order  of
protection from the court on September 6, 2016. (Tr. at 23-26; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 3-5)
Applicant admitted during his hearing testimony that when he was at the mental
health  clinic,  he  threatened  suicide,  and  he  threatened  to  kill  his  then  wife.  He  also
admitted that he was “hearing voices” for a short period. He stated that it sounded like
somebody  was  talking  in  the  next  room,  but  he  could  not  hear  specific  words  or  what
was being said. He has not heard voices since that period. (Tr. at 27, 32-33)
Applicant was hospitalized as an inpatient at a psychiatric facility from September
7,  2016,  through  September  14,  2016.  During  his  intake  evaluation,  he  admitted  that
before he was hospitalized, he wanted to kill himself and his then wife, but that was no
longer true. He was diagnosed with major depressive disorder, severe without psychotic
features. (Tr. at 26; GE 6, 7)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
July 2019. He reported his mental health treatment and hospitalization. He added, “My
wife  and  I  were  going  through  a  divorce.  I  was  at  my  counselor  and  indicated  that  I
wanted  to  kill  myself.  I  was  subsequently  diagnosed  with  major  depressive  disorder.”
(GE 1)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  November  2019.
They  discussed  his  mental  health  treatment.  He  stated  that  he  had  been  battling
depression for ten years. He admitted that he told a counselor in September 2016 that
he had thoughts of harming himself and his then spouse. He told the investigator that he
did not believe he forced his then wife to have sexual relations with him. He stated that
she told him that she did not want to have sex, but she did not stop him. He stated that
he made no threats and committed no acts of violence. He stated that he did not throw
a dresser; he accidentally dropped it. (GE 2)
A psychological evaluation was conducted at the DOD’s request on February 16,
2022,  by  a  licensed  clinical  psychologist  (hereinafter  referred  to  as  psychologist).  A
report  of  the  evaluation  was  prepared  on  February  24,  2022.  They  discussed  his
hospitalization  in  2016.  He  stated  that  he  told  the  provider  in  2016  that  he  was  not
having  thoughts  of  hurting  himself  or  someone  else.  He  stated  that  the  provider  then
asked him, if he could kill his spouse, how would he commit the act, to which he said, “I
guess  I’ll  stab  her.”  He  told  the  psychologist  that  he  did  not  have  any  intent  to  do  so.
Regarding  the  incident  with  his  then  wife,  he  told  the  psychologist  that  they  began
“touching each other”  and eventually had intercourse. He stated that he thought it was
consensual, and that he did not think it was rape because she never said “no.” (GE 8)
The psychologist diagnosed Applicant with major depressive disorder, severe, in
partial remission. She concluded:
Regardless  of  the  diagnosis, it  is clear that [Applicant] lacks  insight  into his
condition and his need for treatment. He expressed  multiple risk factors for
relapse   of  depressive   symptoms,  including   limited   hobbies  of  interest,
poor  sleep   quality,   relocation   from   his  “home   town”   of  approximately  40
years at the  request of his spouse, significant physical ailments, and  lack
of personal friendships  in the  area  that he  has lived  for over two  years. He
has  not  undergone   appropriate   mental  health   treatment,   to   date,  for  the
condition   that   [led]   to   legal  issues  and   psychiatric  hospitalization.
Therefore,  he  does  possess  a  mental health   condition   that  could  impede
his  reliability,  judgment,   stability,  and   trustworthiness.  His  prognosis  is
guarded.  (GE 8)
Applicant continued in counseling and therapy after his 2016 hospitalization until
about 2017. He has remained on anti-depressant medication. He stated that he has not
had  any  issues  since  the  events  leading  up  to  his  hospitalization.  He  stated  that  he
would seek help if he “ever felt like [he] was heading down that road again.” (Tr. at 17,
23, 29-31, 35-36)
Applicant’s employee evaluations for the last three years reflect outstanding job
performance.  His  supervisor  for  the  last  three  and  a  half  years  wrote  that  Applicant  is
“simply amazing.” He further stated that Applicant “handles himself with an exceedingly
high level of decorum and professionalism. I have absolute faith and trust in his integrity
and personal accountability.” (AE A, B)
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental  Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5)
Major Depressive Disorder
The  criterion  symptoms  for  major  depressive  disorder  must  be  present  nearly
every  day  to  be  considered  present,  with  the  exception  of  weight  change  and  suicidal
ideation. . . . Fatigue and sleep disturbance are  present in a high proportion of cases;
psychomotor disturbances  are much  less common but are  indicative  of greater overall
severity, as is the presence of delusional or near-delusional guilt.
The  essential  feature  of  a  major  depressive  episode  is  a  period  of  at  least  2
weeks during which there is either depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in
nearly  all  activities  .  .  .  .  Many  individuals  report  or  exhibit  increased  irritability  (e.g.,
persistent  anger,  a  tendency  to  respond  to  events  with  angry  outbursts  or  blaming
others, an exaggerated sense of frustration over minor events).
