In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a  with  a  brief  narrative
statement. He did not answer the cross-allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a. Applicant’s admission
is  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 47 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1997 and a master’s
degree  in  1999.  He  has  been  married  since  2003,  and  he  and  his  wife  have  two
teenage  children.  He  reported  on  his  SCA  that  he  had  a  clearance  granted  most
recently in about March 2017. (Item 3)
Applicant also disclosed on his June 2021 SCA that in March 2020, his clearance
was  denied,  suspended,  or  revoked  by  another  government  agency  (AGA)  due  to
“engagement in unlawful sexual services on a continuing basis.” (Item 3)
Applicant  gave  additional  details  in  a  subsequent  background  interview,  in
September 2021. He explained that in March 2020, he was preparing to take a security
clearance  polygraph  exam,  and  he  voluntarily  disclosed  that  beginning  in  2012,  he
sought out escort services online. He would make contact and meet the escorts in their
homes,  sometimes  for  massages  and  sometimes  for  sex.  He  said  he  did  this  with
varying frequency, to include weekly up to March 2020, the time of the polygraph. (Item
4 at 10)
(Note:  the  unauthenticated  interview  summary  notes  a  frequency  “varying  from
weekly to one or two  times per month.”  In the  Interrogatory response,  Applicant noted
that this should be “varying from weekly to as long as six months or more.”) (Item 4 at 4)
I interpret this to mean that there were at times gaps of “as long as six months or more”
between his uses of escort services, although Applicant’s wording is not entirely clear).
In the interview summary, Applicant attributed his actions to a lack of intimacy in
his  marriage.  He  said  his  wife  was  unaware  of  his actions  until  March  2020,  when  he
disclosed  it  to  her.  He  said  he  has  not  engaged  in  the  activity  since  March  2020.  He
said  in  the  interview  summary  that  as  a  result,  his  clearance  was  suspended  for  one
year, and was reinstated in March 2021. (Item 4 at 10)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges (and SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleges) that Applicant “solicited escorts
for sexual services with varying frequency from approximately 2012 to at least 2020.” In
his SOR response, Applicant crossed out the words “at least” and wrote:
I admit  to  the  Statement of Reasons as Amended  with  the  retraction  of the
phrase   ‘at  least.”   Since   the   revocation   of  my  clearance   in  March   2020,  I
have   discontinued   the   solicitation   of  escorts  for  sexual  services  as
promised  in  a  previous  telephone  conversation. I  will  not further engage  in
said illegal activities. (Item  2)
Applicant did not elaborate. He did not submit any other statement or evidence with his
answer to the SOR and he did not respond to the Government’s FORM, so he provided
no additional information in mitigation.
