In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a (using
marijuana  with  varying frequency  from about November 2016  to about May  2022). He
also admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b (intending to continue to use marijuana in the
future), but with an explanation. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
explanation:
Applicant is a 24-year-old test engineer employed by a defense contractor since
March  2022.  At  the  time  he  submitted  his  SCA,  he  was  unmarried  and  lived  with  his
parents.  He  graduated  from  college  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  December  2021  and
worked in various non-federal jobs until he was hired for his current position.
When  Applicant submitted  his SCA, he  answered  “Yes” to  the  question  whether
he had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances within the last seven years. He
estimated  that  he  used  marijuana  from  November  2016  through  May  2022.  He  stated
that  his  use  was  “recreational  not  too  often  from  time  to  time.”  He  stated  that  he
intended to use marijuana in the future, explaining,  “I have  friends who  will  be  living  in
states where the drug is legal for recreational use and will possibly use it while visiting.”
(FORM Item 3 at 35-36)
During  a  PSI  on  August  2,  2022,  Applicant  told  an  investigator  that  he  uses
marijuana about once a month with his brother or with friends. He told the investigator
that he does not illegally purchase marijuana but that he obtains it from dispensaries in
adjoining states where it is legal. He also told the investigator that he has not had any
drug counseling or treatment. (FORM Item 4 at 4)
When  Applicant  responded  to  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.b,  he  admitted  the
allegation with the following explanation:
I admit  to  1.b  of claiming  to  continue  use  of marijuana  in  the  future  during
initial interviews for security clearance. I  would like  to  add  that as of now I
do   intend   to   stop   the   use   of  marijuana   consumption.  After  speaking   with
someone   more   knowledgeable   of  the   process  for  [obtaining   a]   security
clearance  I am  aware  that use  of marijuana  will  affect  me  being  granted  a
security  clearance.  Not   being   granted   clearance   will   affect  my  livelihood
and  the  use  of marijuana  is not worth  the  overall  problems it may cause  in
my life.
In   the   FORM,  Department  Counsel  argued,  “In   his  SOR  Response,  Applicant
admits his marijuana  use  and  states that he  intends to  stop  using  marijuana. It does not
appear as  though  Applicant has in fact ceased  marijuana  use, which is not compatible
with   holding   a   clearance.”  Applicant  responded   to   Department  Counsel’s  argument  as
follows:
This letter is  to  make  a  correction  to  the  argument that I  have  not stopped
use  of marijuana. My early statement of intention  to  stop  was to  never use
marijuana   again.  I   have   not  had   any   association   with   marijuana   since
October  2022   and   will   not   have   any  association   again.   If   needed   I  can
take  and provide a  drug screening to show proof that I have ceased  use.
