Applicant is 41 years old.  He has never married and has no children.  He has a
high  school  diploma,  military  training,  and  an  Electrical  Technician  Certificate  he
obtained  in  the  military.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Master
Tradesperson  3.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.  Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  2000  to  2004,  for  which  he
received  an  honorable  discharge.  Applicant’s  currently  holds  a  security  clearance  he
was granted in 2007.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to timely file his Federal income tax returns
for tax years 2012 through 2020.  Applicant admits each of the  allegations set forth in
the SOR.
Applicant began working for his current employer in May 2015.  He provided no
real excuse  for failing to  file  his Federal income tax  returns, except that  he  lacked  the
knowledge.  He explained that while in the military, on the Naval base in Japan, up until
2010,  he  had  access  to  a  volunteer  service  that  prepared  his  income  tax  returns.  In
2010,  they  left, and  he  filed  on his  own.  There  were  problems  and  it  was  returned  to
him  to  be  corrected  and  sent  back  to  the  IRS.  He  lost  confidence  in  doing  it  himself,
things  snowballed,  and  he  stopped  filing  his  returns.  Applicant  stated  that  all  of  his
unfiled  income  tax  returns  are  in  the  process  of  being  filed.
(Applicant’s  Answer  to
SOR.)
Not  relevant  to  this  issue,  but  noted  by  the  Applicant,  is  the  fact  that  as  an
American  living  abroad  he  is  entitled  to  special  benefits  such  as  the  Foreign  Earned
Income Exclusion and Foreign Tax Credit.  However, these benefits are only allowed by
filing a Federal income tax return, which Applicant has not done.  (Government Exhibit
5.)
