Applicant  is  70  years  old  and  married  and  has  two  step-children,  one  is
deceased.  He  has  a  Master’s  degree.  He  is  employed  part-time  by  a  defense
contractor  as  a  Business  Financial  Manager.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleges that Applicant is indebted for three charged-off private student
loan  accounts  totaling  over  $158,000.  Applicant  admits  two  of  the  debts,  specifically
1.a., and 1.b., and denies responsibility for 1.b., and 1.c., explaining that 1.b., may have
been paid by his grandson; but he is not sure, and 1.c., is not a debt, but the name of
the  loan  servicing  company  for  the  debt  listed  in  1.a.  Accordingly,  Allegation  1.c.,  is
found  for  the  Applicant.  Applicant’s  credit  report  dated  October  5,  2021,  and  his
enhanced  summary  interview  dated  October  13,  2021,  confirm  the  indebtedness  set
forth in Allegations 1.a. and 1.b.  (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  co-signed  on  two  student  loan  accounts  for  the  benefit  of  his
grandson about ten years ago.  The first student loan Applicant co-signed for is set forth
in 1.b. of the SOR.  The second loan  Applicant co-signed for is set forth in 1.a.  of the
SOR.  Applicant’s grandson failed to pay the student loan accounts when they became
due.  Applicant stated that he made a few payments toward the loans before they were
charged off, and he has made no further payments since then.
Applicant  currently  lives  comfortably  with  his  pension  and  active  income.  He
wants his grandson to re-pay the student loans, however, he stated that he understands
that he is responsible to pay them if his grandson does not pay them.  Applicant retired
from working for a Federal Civil Service in December 2011.  He remained retired from
January  2012  until  May  2012.  He  re-entered  the  workforce  as  a  part-time  contract
employee in about May 2012.  He has worked for his current employer since 2018.  He
currently holds a security clearance which he was granted in August 2011.  Applicant is
an  avid  international  traveler  in  his  free  time.  He  has  sufficient  money  to  pay  his
grandson’s delinquent student loan debt.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $64,324.  Applicant admitted that he co-signed on the loan with
this  creditor.  Applicant  learned  that  the  debt  became  delinquent  in  January  2017.
Applicant stated that he made a few payments  on the account until it was charged off.
Applicant understands that as co-borrower on the loan, he is guaranteeing repayment of
the loan.  In Applicant’s June 13 response to the SOR, Applicant stated that he has just
received a letter from the collection  agency regarding the loan.  On or about June 10,
2022, Applicant wrote back to the creditor requesting specific information as to whether
they  had  standing  regarding  loan  payment  and  settlement.  Applicant  stated  that  since
then, they have provided a partial but not complete response.  There is no evidence in
the record to prove that Applicant’s grandson has paid the debt.  Applicant has not paid
off the debt, despite his clear ability to pay it.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $36,796.  Applicant admitted that he co-signed on the loan with
this  creditor.  Applicant  learned  that  the  debt  became  delinquent  in  June  2018.
Applicant stated that he made a few payments  on the account until it was charged off.
Applicant understands that as co-borrower on the loan, he is guaranteeing repayment of
the  loan.  In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  in  April  2022,  a  change
was noted on his credit report stating that the lender or creditor reported that  the loan
was  no  longer  in  derogatory  status,  and  in  the  remarks  section  stated  that  there  was
“payment  after  charge  off/collection  and  settled  for  less  than  full  balance”.  Applicant
stated  that  he  has  tried  to  contact  his  grandson  to  find  out  if  he  has  paid  anything
towards  the debt,  but he has not been successful.  There is no  convincing  evidence in
the record to prove that Applicant’s grandson has paid the debt.  Applicant has not paid
the debt, despite his clear ability to pay.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.  Discussed  above,  the  SOR  stated  that  Applicant  owed  a  delinquent  debt  to  a
creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $57,183.
Applicant contends that this is the same debt owed to the creditor set forth in allegation
1.a.  There  is  no  evidence  to  the  contrary.
It  appears  that  this  entity  was  the  loan
servicing company for the loan set forth in allegation 1.a.  Accordingly, there is nothing
owed to this entity, and this allegation is found for the Applicant.
Overall, Applicant has failed to provide sufficient evidence in total mitigation.  He
has  not made  a  good faith  effort  to  address  the  delinquent  student  loan  debts  that  he
co-signed for, nor has he taken any meaningful step to resolve these delinquencies.  He
has submitted no documentary evidence to show that he has established an acceptable
payment arrangement or that he is complying with a payment arrangement.  There is no
meaningful  track  record  of  repayment.  He  stated  that  he  understands  that  he  is
responsible  to  pay  the  debts,  but  he  continues  to  ignore  his  legal  obligations  as  co-
signor to pay them.
