Applicant, 45, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company since
February  2019.  He  previously  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  September  1997  to
November  2018.  He  was  first  granted  access  to  classified  information  in  2014.  He
completed his most recent security clearance application in August 2019 and disclosed
that  he  retired  from  military  service  as  a  senior  chief  petty  officer  (E-8)  following
allegations  of  misconduct.  The  incidents  prompting  his  retirement  are  alleged  in  the
SOR.
Between  June  2016  and  November  2018,  Applicant  served  onboard  an  aircraft
carrier. In June 2017, the command investigated allegations that Applicant violated the
Navy’s  sexual  harassment  and
inappropriate
comments  to  an  unidentified  junior  sailor  and  engaging  in  an  inappropriate  text
message conversation with another unidentified junior sailor. While the investigation did
not  substantiate  some  of  the  more  egregious  allegations,  the  carrier’s  commanding
officer (CO) determined the nature of the substantiated allegations warranted Applicant
receiving  a  non-punitive  letter  of  caution  in  July  2017.  (GE  1;  GE  3,  pp.  30-31)  In  the
letter, the CO admonished Applicant:
fraternization  policies  by  making
I have determined the substantiated statements are sufficiently concerning
and  your  failure  to  maintain  a  proper  and  professional  relationship  with
another  of  your  junior  sailor  must  be  affirmatively  addressed  to  ensure
your future conduct complies with the Navy’s established policies and my
expectations….
Your  text  message  exchange  with  a  junior  sailor  was  inappropriate  and
undermined  your  status  as  a  senior  chief  petty  officer  especially  when
other  junior  sailors  learned  of  the  exchange.  You  must  work  further  to
develop your military bearing and professionalism to ensure it rises to the
level  of  what   is  expected   of   a   Senior   Chief   Petty   Officer  with   nearly  20
years of experience…
I  demand  far  greater  judgment  and  performance  from  leaders  serving
onboard  [this  air-craft  carrier].  Accordingly,  you  are  being  counseled  on
your  expected  conduct.  This  letter  is  addressed  to  you  as  a  corrective
measure and does not become a part of your official record…. (GE 3, pp
30-31)
Although the letter was considered non-punitive, it constituted a lawful order from
his CO that Applicant was required to obey. (Tr. 34)
In  October  2017,  the  carrier’s  executive  officer  and  the  command  master  chief
received  an  anonymous  complaint  that  Applicant  was  having  an  inappropriate
relationship  with  a  junior  sailor  (JS1).  The  deputy  command  judge  advocate  (DCJA)
launched  a  second
investigation
substantiated that Applicant had an unduly familiar relationship with JS1, in violation of
the  Navy’s  fraternization  policy  and  the  July  2017  letter  of  caution.  The  investigation
also  determined  that  he  sexually  harassed,  a  second  sailor,  JS2,  by  making
inappropriate  comments
inappropriately  on  multiple
occasions,  and  making  inappropriate  comments  about  her  to  other  sailors.  (GE  3,  pp.
46, 69-73)
into  Applicant’s  conduct.  The
towards  her,
touching  her
investigation
The DCJA also investigated allegations that Applicant sexually harassed  a third
sailor, JS3. JS3 separated from the Navy before the investigation began and she could
not be contacted. However, the DCJA considered the allegations regarding JS3 another
“data  point  in  Applicant’s  pattern  of  inappropriate  and  unprofessional  behavior.”  The
DCJA  recommended  that  Applicant  be  taken  to  Captain’s  Mast;  that  he  be  removed
from  any  supervisory  role  and  that  he  be  detached  from  for  cause.  The  DCJA  also
recommended  the  CO  take  any  “additional  actions  as  necessary  to  end  Applicant’s
career in the Navy.” (GE 3, pp 45-73)
In  December  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  six  specifications  of  violating
Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  Article  92:  failure  to  obey  an  order.  He  pled
guilty  to  five  specifications:  (1)  having  an  unduly  familiar  relationship  with  JS1;  (2)
violating  the  Navy’s  sexual  harassment  policy  by  wrongfully  touching  and  making
unwanted comments of a sexual nature regarding the appearance of JS2; (3) violating
the  July  2017  letter  of  caution  by  continuing  to  engage  in  an  unduly  familiar  and
unprofessional  relationship  with  JS1;  (4)  violating  the  July  2017  letter  of  caution  by
continuing to engage in an unduly familiar and unprofessional relationship with JS2; and
(5)  violating  the  Navy’s  sexual  harassment  policy  by  wrongfully  making  unwanted
sexual advances, and making inappropriate comments to JS3. He was found not guilty
of a sixth charge of making offensive or racial comments in violation of the Navy’s equal
opportunity program. He was sentenced to 45 days restriction (25 days suspended for
six months). Applicant appealed the sentence, specifically requesting reconsideration of
his  detachment  for  cause  as  a  separate  administrative  action  as  being  unjust  and
disproportionate. (GE 3, pp 3-9)
The  CO  recommended  denial  of  the appeal.  In  support of  his  recommendation,
the CO noted that Applicant admitted to engaging in the conduct for which he was found
guilty  at  Captain’s Mast.  The  CO also believed  that the punishment  was both  just and
proportional
for
reconsideration of being detached for cause, the CO noted that detachment for cause is
not a punishment issued at Captain’s Mast but explained that detachment for cause was
appropriate in Applicant’s case. (GE 3, pp 10-12)
to  Applicant’s  misconduct.
to  Applicant’s  request
In  response
The CO explained that Applicant’s conduct had  been an ongoing issue since he
was  a  second-class  petty  officer  (E-5).  He  described  Applicant’s  behavior  as  being
particularly  egregious  given  that  he  received  the  July  2017  letter  of  caution  months
before  the  October  2017  investigation.  The  CO  further  described  Applicant’s  behavior
as  “so  wholly  toxic, unprofessional, and  not  in  keeping  with  Navy Core  Values that  he
cannot continue to act in a senior leadership role in any capacity onboard the carrier.”
The  CO  commented  that  Applicant  demonstrated  a  complete  misunderstanding  of  the
Navy’s  expectations  and  standards  for  leadership  and  professional  behavior.  The
command denied Applicant’s appeal. (GE 3, pp 10-12)
In May 2018, Applicant requested permission to retire in lieu of an administrative
separation
termination.  His  command  supported  the  request,  recommending  a
discharge  classification  as  general  under  honorable  conditions.  The  request  was
approved, and he retired in November 2018 with 21 years of service. (GE 3, 15-17)
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to obey the order in the July 2017 letter of
caution to discontinue his inappropriate relationships with junior sailors, resulting in the
December 2017 investigation into additional allegations of misconduct. (SOR ¶ 1.a) The
SOR also alleges that the December 2017 investigation resulted in a Captain’s Mast in
which  Applicant  was  charged  with  and  pleaded  guilty  to  failure  to  obey  a  lawful  order
regarding  the  Navy’s  fraternization  policy  (SOR  ¶  1.b);  two  violations  of  the  Navy’s
sexual  harassment  policy  (SOR  ¶  1.c.  and  1.e);  failure  to  maintain  proper  and
professional  relationships  with  junior  sailors  (SOR  ¶  1.d);  and  that  he  was  ultimately
granted  permission  to  retire  from  the  Navy  with  a  general  discharge  under  honorable
conditions in lieu of appearing before an administrative separation board (SOR 1.f).
In his answer to the SOR  and at hearing, Applicant admitted to engaging in the
underlying conduct, which is why he decided to plead guilty to the charges at Captain’s
Mast.  He  continues  to  deny  that  his  actions  constituted  sexual  harassment.  Applicant
argued that if the Navy truly deemed his conduct to be sexual harassment that he would
have  been  criminally  charged,  reduced  in  rank,  and  detached  for  cause.  He  further
explained  that  he  requested  permission  to  retire  because  he  was  tired  of  having  to
prove his innocence and did not have the data necessary to prove his case. He felt as if
he had no way of winning. (Tr. 46-48; Answer)
Applicant claims that he has not engaged in any similar behaviors at his current
job, and that he will not engage in similar behavior in the future.
