Applicant  is  58  years  old  and  has  been  employed  since  November  2022  as  a
network  engineer  by  her  current  security  clearance  sponsor,  a  DoD  contractor.  She
earned an associate degree in 1996 and has taken additional college-level courses. She
has been married and divorced three times and has two adult children. (Tr. at 20-22, 40-
41; GE 1 at 7, 14-15, 24-27, 29-30; GE 2 at 7, 14-15, 24-27.)
Applicant  was  first granted a  security  clearance  in 2006,  which  was  renewed  in
2016  following  her  submission  of  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations
Processing on September 8, 2016 (2016 e-QIP). Applicant’s submission of her 2019 e-
QIP  was  in  connection  with  her  employer’s  request  that  she  receive  a  Top  Secret
clearance,  which  was  granted  in  2020.  A  subsequent  investigation  was  undertaken  in
response to her employer’s request that Applicant receive eligibility for access to sensitive
compartmented information (SCI). The SOR is based upon new facts about Applicant’s
past  involvement  with  drugs  uncovered  during  the  SCI  investigation  and  her  failure  to
disclose her more recent use of marijuana on her 2016 e-QIP and her 2019 e-QIP. (Tr.
at 9, 42; GE 1 at 47-48, 49-50; GE 2 at 36-37; GE 5.)
Paragraph 1  - Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because of her past drug involvement. Specifically, the SOR alleged that Applicant used
marijuana on two occasions, December 2013 and May 2016, after having been granted
access  to  classified  information  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  In  her  Answer  Applicant  admitted  the
allegation  under this guideline  and wrote  that,  “I  chose  to use marijuana on  these  two
occasions  knowing  that  I  was  behaving  in  sharp  contrast  to  my  promise  to  the  United
States.”  She  added,  “There  have  been  no  other  times  I  have  used  any  controlled
substance during any time while holding a clearance from 2006 until this day.” (Answer.)
Applicant  testified  that  prior  to  1995  she  had  a  13-year  history  of  being  a  drug
abuser who smoked marijuana and used methamphetamine, almost daily. She also drank
alcohol excessively. In 1988, she was involuntarily hospitalized due an incident involving
excessive  drinking of alcohol.  In  1995  Applicant’s  co-habitant  forced  her to  leave  their
residence  because  of  her  addictions.  She  went  to  live  with  her  sister,  who  assisted
Applicant in becoming sober. Applicant was successful and maintained sobriety  for 17
years through her participation in Narcotics Anonymous (NA) and the help of her family.
(Tr. at 24; GE 1 at 45-46; GE 3 at 6; GE 4 at 2.)
In  2012  Applicant  started  drinking  alcohol  again  when  she  was  working  as  a
defense contractor on a remote location of a U.S territory. She testified that there was
little  or  no  support  systems  for  someone  with  Applicant’s  history  of  addictions.  She
thought  that  there  was  no  reason  she  could  not  drink  alcohol  like  a  “grown-up.”  Her
consumption of alcohol developed into daily drinking to the point of intoxication. She also
smoked marijuana on two occasions  while granted access to classified information, as
alleged in the SOR (see below). After four years, she left her job in the remote location
and relocated to State 1. She wanted to stop drinking alcohol, but she found it was more
difficult to do that in 2017 than it was the first time. She also started attending NA meetings
again. In 2019, she found employment at a U.S. military base in State 2 and relocated to
State  2  for  her  new  job.  Her  drinking  continued  until  May  2019.  She  finally  found  the
support she needed to control her alcohol consumption. (Tr. at 23-27, 36-38; GE 3 at 6-
7; GE 4 at 3.)
Applicant testified that the sister of her former boyfriend urged Applicant to smoke
marijuana with her on two occasions, once in 2013 and again in 2016. Applicant made
the  choice  of  smoking  marijuana  on  both  occasions.  Both  instances  occurred  while
Applicant was visiting her boyfriend on the mainland of the United States. She has not
used any illegal drugs since 2016. (Answer; Tr. at 26-28, 39; GE 3 at 7, 9; GE 4 at 3.)
Paragraph 2  - Guideline  E, Personal Conduct
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible
for a security clearance because she has engaged in conduct that involves questionable
judgment,  an  unwillingness  to  follow  rules  and  regulations,  a  lack  of  candor,  and
dishonesty. The DoD CAF alleged that Applicant falsified her answer to the question in
Section 23 of the 2016 e-QIP about prior illegal drug use by failing to disclose her use of
marijuana in 2013 (SOR ¶ 2.a). The SOR also alleged under this guideline that Applicant
falsified her answer to the same question in Section 23 of the 2019 e-QIP by failing to
disclose her uses of marijuana in 2013 and 2016 (SOR ¶ 2.b).
In her Answer Applicant admitted both allegations in paragraph 2 of the SOR. She
wrote, “There is no justification I can give for these decisions to falsify my investigations.
It was bad judgment, and I can expect nothing less than having my clearance revoked.”
She added:
I am proud to have the privilege of working for our military. I understand the
responsibility that comes with that privilege and that I have broken the trust
that the U.S. government had in me by making these false statements. I can
assure you that I understand the consequences that our military personnel
and our country could face due to questionable judgment. I can promise you
that my judgment regarding any information that I have been privy to has
never been in question. (Answer at 1.)
Applicant concluded  her comments in  her Answer by writing, “I  want to assure the US
Government of my sincere desire to repair the trust that has been given to me and that I
will continue to be a good steward of that trust.” (Answer at 1.)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted that she deliberately provided a false answer to
the question in Section 23 of the 2016 e-QIP. She testified that she was scared to admit
her  use  of  marijuana  in  2013  because  it  might  make  her  ineligible  to  work  for  her
government contractor. In addition, she was drinking alcohol to excess at the time and
that  clouded  her  judgment.  At  the  time  she  completed  her  2019  e-QIP,  Applicant  had
stopped drinking alcohol. She again did not report her marijuana uses in 2013 and 2016
because she was again afraid of losing her job. At her initial background interview, she
did  not  disclose  her  marijuana  use  in  2013  and  2016.  An  investigator  interviewed
Applicant’s sister in January 2020, and the sister told the investigator about Applicant’s
difficult history with drugs and alcohol and her active participation in NA. (Tr. at 28-31; GE
3 at 4-6; GE 5.)
Applicant’s  sister  advised  Applicant  that  evening  about  the  interview.  Applicant
realized that she had to tell the investigator the truth about her drug history and her use
of marijuana in 2013 and 2016. She wrote the investigator an email the next morning and
admitted to the investigator that she had lied in her interview by not disclosing her past
drug use and her current involvement in NA. The SOR does not contain an allegation that
she provided false information to the investigator. At the hearing, she insisted that she
would  never  again  place  her  own  self-interest  ahead  of  her  national  security
responsibilities. She feels a particularly strong duty to be honest for the sake of our military
members. (Tr. at 31-34; GE 5.)
Psychological Evaluation
The DoD CAF requested that Applicant submit to a psychological evaluation. The
evaluation  was  conducted  by  a  DoD  psychologist  in  May  2021.  He  provided  a  report,
dated June 8, 2021. In his report, the psychologist provided an even-handed prognosis
in  which  he  credited  Applicant  “for  utilizing  her  resources  and  reportedly  maintaining
sobriety  for  17  years.”  He  also  noted  that  “with  the  right  combination  of  support,  she
appears to be able to successfully manage her addiction.” He commented, however, “that
an absence or removal of some of her supports can cause her to fall back into using drugs
or alcohol again, even after long periods of sobriety.” He believes that it cannot be known
if  [Applicant’s  current]  stability  will  be  maintained  or  follow  the  patterns  of  the  past.
Significantly, he wrote that “the disclosure of [Applicant’s] marijuana use in 2013 and 2016
was  not  forthright  and  [was]  only  discovered  by  [an]  offhand  comment  which  raises
concerns  as  to  whether future reportable  events  will  be  brought  forward with  integrity.”
The  Psychologist believes that Applicant “has a  condition  which  impairs her judgment,
reliability, and trustworthiness and should be carefully considered.” (GE 4 at 5.)
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant has worked for the U.S. military for the past 19 years and considers this
work as the best experience of her career. She is a member of NA and attends meetings
regularly. She believes she has a large support system that has helped her maintain her
sobriety.  (Tr. at 17, 34-35.)
Applicant sincerely expressed remorse for lying to the Government about her past.
She admits she lied on her applications out of fear for losing her job. She recognizes that
her  skills  are  transferrable  to  the  private  sector,  but  she  does  not  want  to  lose  the
opportunity to serve the U.S. military. (Tr. at 18-19.)
Prior  to  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  17  character-reference  letters.  Eight
reference  letters  from  professional  contacts  praised  Applicant’s  responsibility  and
dependability.  She  maintains  excellent  security  practices  and  can  be  relied  upon  to
protect classified information. The writers also praise her personal qualities, particularly
her work ethic, honesty, and interpersonal skills. (AE A through H.)
Applicant  also  submitted  seven  reference  letters  from  personal  contacts,  who
praised her reliability, integrity, and authenticity. Friends who know Applicant through their
involvement with her in NA write that Applicant is deeply committed to maintaining her
sobriety.  (AE I through O.)
The  last  two  reference  letters  were  written  by  Applicant’s  sister  and  Applicant’s
adult daughter. Her sister praised Applicant for the progress she has made in her life after
many difficult years struggling with drug addiction while raising a child on her own. She
believes that Applicant today is a strong and trustworthy person. Applicant’s daughter has
witnessed  Applicant’s  struggles  in  life  firsthand  since  she  was  born  in  1984,  and  she
believes that Applicant has grown into a mature and trustworthy person. (AE P and Q.)
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  national  security  eligibility,  the
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief
