Applicant admitted all but one of the allegations, to the extent that the accounts
were his, but not that they were delinquent. The remaining account, he was unaware of,
which will be treated as a denial. His admissions are incorporated into these findings of
fact. After a review of the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant is a  57-year-old employee  of a  federal  contractor. He  has worked  for his
current  employer   as   a   senior  field   engineer   since   December   2018.   He   has   worked   for
federal contractors since  retiring  from  the  U.S. Army  in 2007. He is  married  for the  third
time  (1986-1999; 2003-2011; 2012-present).  He has four children, ages 35, 33, 10,  and
8. He holds a  bachelor’s degree  and  is a  few hours  away  from  earning  his masters. (Tr.
5-6, 20, 24; GE 1-2)
Applicant retired from the Army in 2007, at the rank of sergeant major (paygrade
E-9). During his 21 years of service, he served in overseas locations over nine years. He
first deployed for Desert Storm in 1990-1991. Over the years, he deployed six more times
to the Southwest Asia region. His last deployment was in 2005. He received numerous
decorations for his service as reflected on his discharge certificate (DD-214), including:
the  Meritorious  Service  Medal  (third  device);  the  Army  Commendation  Medal  (fourth
device); and the Army Achievement Medal (fifth device). (Tr. 19-20, 45; AE A)
The SOR alleged that Applicant had a mortgage account that went to foreclosure
and 10 past due, collection, or charged-off debts. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.k) With the exception of
SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.h, the debts are established by entries on credit reports  from November
2019,  July  2022,  and  February  2023.  I  gave  no  weight  to  GE  5  because  it  offered  no
probative information about Applicant’s alleged specific debts, and it referred to a credit
report that was not included in the exhibit. Regarding SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.h, the record contains
no evidence that those specific debts were in a past due, charged off, or collection status.
In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer,  he  only  admitted  to  having  those  accounts,  not  to  any
delinquencies. I find that the Government failed to establish those debts as delinquent.
(GE 1-6; Answer to SOR)
Applicant  explained  that  his  financial  difficulties  started  in  2019  when  his  rental
property became vacant after a long-term tenant left. He was unable to secure another
tenant and the expenses of maintaining that property, along with his residential property
caused increased financial distress. Additionally, he and his current spouse separated for
a time, requiring him to support two separate households. They are back together now.
During  this  time,  he  used  credit  cards  to  make  repairs  to  the  rental  property  and  his
residence. He admitted going through a bankruptcy in 1995, where he had approximately
$74,000 in debts discharged (this was not alleged in the SOR and will not be used by me
as a basis for disqualification, but I may consider this information as it could relate to his
credibility,  the  applicability  of  any  mitigating  conditions,  and  in  assessing  the  whole-
person factors). He provided a copy of his written budget that shows his current financial
position  is  much  improved.  His  latest  credit  reports  show  that  he  had  several  large-
balance accounts that he is making timely payment on and he has reduced or eliminated
the balances on several of these accounts. (Tr. 21-22, 48; AE B)
The status of Applicant’s delinquent debts is as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a-$1,344. Applicant admitted this credit-card debt. He thought he used it
to purchase a television and other consumer goods. There is a discrepancy among the
credit reports as to the last activity date. One stated that the last activity was in October
2019, and two others stated it was September 2017. He testified that he has attempted
to resolve this account by contacting the creditor, only to find out the account was sold to
some other creditor or collection service. He is still attempting to resolve this debt.  (Tr.
26-27; GE 3-4, 6, Answer to SOR)
SOR  ¶   1.b-$146,000   (Mortgage   Foreclosure).  Applicant  admitted  this  debt  as
described above concerning his rental property. His efforts to address this debt included
trying  to  secure  tenants  for  this  rental  property,  continuing  to  make  the  mortgage
payments  for  several  months  while  he  was  able  to  do  so,  and  attempting  to  sell  the
property. The bank foreclosed before he could sell it. Applicant has never been contacted
about a deficiency after the foreclosure. (Tr. 28-29; GE 3-4, 6; Answer to SOR)
SOR  ¶   1.c-$19,145   (Second  Mortgage   Foreclosure).  Applicant  admitted  this
debt as described above concerning his rental property. His efforts to address this debt
included trying to secure tenants for this rental property, continuing to make the mortgage
payments  for  several  months  while  he  was  able  to  do  so,  and  attempting  to  sell  the
property.  The  bank  foreclosed  before  he  could  sell  it.  Applicant  contacted  the  bank  in
2019 and was told there was nothing to be done with this debt because of the foreclosure.
His most recent credit report contained this entry regarding this debt: “Account Previously
In Dispute - Now Resolved By Data Furnisher, Collateral Released By Creditor/balance
Owing.” (Tr. 29-30; GE 3-4, 6; Answer to SOR)
SOR ¶  1.d-(Current  Mortgage  Account). The Government failed to establish that
this debt was delinquent. (Tr. 30-31; GE 1-6; Answer to SOR)
SOR ¶  1.e-(Credit Card). The Government failed to establish that this debt was
delinquent. (Tr. 31; GE 1-6; Answer to SOR)
SOR  ¶¶   1.f-1.h-(Bank   Loans).  The  Government  failed  to  establish  that  these
debts were delinquent. (Tr. 33-36; GE 1-6; Answer to SOR)
SOR ¶  1.i-$653.  Applicant admitted this credit-card debt. He testified that he has
attempted to resolve this account by contacting the creditor, only to find out the account
was sold to some other creditor or collection service. He is still attempting to resolve this
debt and is awaiting a settlement offer from the current debt holder. (Tr. 37; GE 3-4, 6,
Answer to SOR)
SOR ¶  1.j-$3,889. Applicant admitted this credit-card debt. He testified that he has
attempted to resolve this account by contacting the creditor, only to find out the account
was sold to some other creditor or collection service. He is still attempting to resolve this
debt and is awaiting a settlement offer from the current debt holder. (Tr. 38; GE 3-4, 6)
SOR ¶  1.k-$738.  Applicant explained that this is an education debt for which he
was erroneously charged. He initially took a class, but he dropped the class within the
timeframe allowed. He was still charged for the class. He  has disputed this debt. It no
longer appears on his two most recent credit reports. (Tr. 39; GE 4, 6)
Applicant’s  monthly income, from all sources, is approximately $13,700, and his
monthly expenses are approximately $6,200, leaving a monthly remainder of $7,500 to
address his remaining debts. He testified that he put his life in harm’s way for this country
numerous times and that he would never do anything to jeopardize the United States. (Tr.
56-57; AE B)
