In Applicant’s answer, he denied the sole SOR  allegation. After a thorough and
careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 63 years old. He is single, has never married and he has no children.
He has worked for a federal contractor since 2015 as an electronics technician. He was
granted a  security  clearance in 2016.  He  served  in the  U.S. Marine  Corps  (active and
reserve) from 1978-1983. He also served in the U.S. Army reserve from 1990 to 1996.
He received honorable discharges for all this service. He holds two associate’s degrees
in computer science and networking. (Tr.2 at 5, 17-19, 59, 62; GE 1)
The SOR alleged that in December 2021, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed
psychologist who opined that Applicant’s history of delusional beliefs, persecutory ideas,
and limited insight may impair his judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
In March 2020, Applicant reported to his employer that while he was at a casino,
he  believed  his  truck  was  broken  into  and  his  backpack  containing  his  security
credentials  was  ransacked.  Nothing  was  taken,  but  he  was  concerned  that  his
credentials  had  been  compromised,  which  is  why  he  reported  it.  No  evidence  of  a
break-in  was  discovered  by  the  law  enforcement  agency  investigating  this  incident.
Because  Applicant  had  reported  other  break-ins  to  both  his  residence  and  his  truck
previously,  which  were  unsubstantiated,  his  employer  sent  him  for  a  fitness  for  duty
examination In May 2020. (GE 5)
Applicant’s  fitness  for  duty  examination  was  conducted  by  Dr.  K,  a  doctor  of
osteopath  (DO).  Ten  days  before  the  fitness  for  duty  physical  examination,  a
psychological  evaluation  was  conducted  that  apparently  did  not  detect  evidence  of  a
psychotic  disorder.  There  is  no  information  about  who  conducted  this  examination.
Applicant  described for Dr.  K  an  incident that  occurred  in 2016  where  he  had an IRS-
issued  refund  check  stolen  from  him  that  was  later  cashed.  The  check  was  replaced
and he cashed  it.  He claimed that the IRS told  him  they  would continue  to investigate
this  incident.  Since  then,  he  believed  that  his  truck  and  home  have  been  broken  into
several times, although he found nothing taken each time. (GE 5)
Dr. K listed the following clinical impressions he made about Applicant regarding
his mental health: Applicant suffered from minor post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD),
which Dr. K found to be stable with no effect on Applicant’s work environment. He also
thought  Applicant  suffered  from  mild  paranoid/compulsive  thought  process  without
psychiatric illness. He concluded that Applicant was fit for duty. (GE 5)
Applicant  also  sent  a  letter  to  his  employer  after  the  alleged  March  2020  truck
break-in  wherein  he  specifically  alleged  that  employees  of  a  local  security  company
were the ones that broke into his truck. He went on to allege that this security company
had  been  harassing  him  for  the  past  two  years.  He  wrote  that  the  company  has
“continued  harassing,  bullying,  tormenting,  threatening  and  terrorizing  me  on  a  daily
bases  [sic].”  He  also  accused  this  company  of  sending  someone  to  scare  his  elderly
mother  who  lives  in  another  state.  He  further  claimed  that  the  local  police  would  not
investigate his allegation without some proof of wrongdoing by the company. Applicant
provided  no  proof  of  the  security  company’s  involvement  in  any  of  these  allegations.
(Tr.2  at  72;  GE  3,  5  (Note:  in  Applicant’s  letter  to  his  employer,  he  described  that  the
March 2020, truck break-in occurred at a grocery store, but during his interview with Dr.
K, he described the same event as happening at a casino))
After receiving the letter from Applicant, his employer asked local enforcement to
conduct a health and welfare check of him at his residence. The check was conducted
and  Applicant  informed  the  officers  that  he  believed  his  neighbors  upstairs,  who  he
alleged  worked  for  the  security  company,  were  conducting  surveillance  on  him  and
breaking into his truck and apartment. The officers questioned the neighbors but found
nothing to connect them with Applicant’s allegations. (Tr.2 at 73-75; GE 2)
Applicant  testified  that  his  truck  was  broken  into  every  day  for  two  years,  or
approximately 700 times. He knew this because he noticed small differences when he
got into his truck like the mirrors’ different positions, the visor’s position, and the position
of  his  handicap  placard.  He  did  not  file  police  reports  about  these  break-ins.  He  also
believes his apartment was broken into in 2018, while he visited his mother. He testified
that  he  believes  his  mother  was  surveilled  and  harassed  in  2018.  He  believes  the
security company is behind all these incidents, but admitted he had no proof supporting
his beliefs. He admitted placing “posters” over all of his light switches in his apartment in
order to block any cameras that might be imbedded in them.  (Tr.2  at 80, 83, 123-124,
158-159)
In the processing of this security clearance adjudication, the DOD requested that
Applicant  participate  in  a  psychological  examination.  In  December  2021,  Dr.  S,  a
licensed  psychologist  with  a  doctor  of  psychology  degree  (PsyD),  and  who  is  board
certified  in  behavior  and  cognitive  psychology,  conducted  a  semi-structured  clinical
interview with Applicant, reviewed self-report questionnaires, reviewed medical records,
and  conducted  clinical  testing  (including  the  Minnesota  Multiphasic  Personality
Inventory-28  (MMPI)).  Dr.  S  prepared  a  report  of  the  evaluation  dated  December  20,
2021. ( GE 7)
Applicant  disclosed  to  Dr.  S  the  triggering  incident  leading  to  his  suspicions,
which  was  the  allegedly  stolen  IRS  check  in  2016,  and  which  led  to  his  belief  that  he
and his family was being investigated and harassed by the IRS or their agents through
2020. He related his concern about his truck break-in, his apartment break-in, concerns
about  his  upstairs  neighbors  who  he  believed  placed  sensors  in  his  carpet,  controlled
his television set (although Applicant testified that he did not own a television), and that
his water faucets were turned on randomly at night to disrupt his sleep. He also claimed
his mother was being harassed. In his hearing testimony, he denied that he told Dr. S
any of these things. He also claimed that his interview only lasted about 15 minutes. He
admitted during cross-examination that he did not file a complaint against Dr. S for lying
in her report about what comprised his clinical interview. (Tr.2 at 100-105, 143; GE 7)
Based upon Applicant’s clinical interview, his test results, and his medical history,
Dr. S opined the following:
1.  Review  of  Applicant’s  MMPI  results  revealed  a  pattern  of  underreporting
suggesting he answered the questions in such a way to put a positive light by denying
common faults or shortcomings;
2.  Based  upon  his  MMPI  results  and  other  self-report  measures,  Applicant
appears to exhibit a pattern of avoidance and denial of symptoms or limited insight into
the presence of symptoms; and
3.  Based  upon  Applicant’s  history  of  delusional  beliefs,  persecutory  ideas,  and
limited insight, his judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness are impaired.
Dr.  S  formally  diagnosed  Applicant,  under  the  Diagnostic  and  Statical  Manual-fifth
edition  (DSM-5)  with  Delusional  Disorder,  persecutory  type  (DSM-5  297.1).  She
recommended  that  Applicant  engage  in  a  thorough  personality  assessment  and/or
neuropsychological  evaluation  to  determine  the  specific  mental  health  condition  likely
contributing  to  his  paranoid  thinking  and  ongoing  fixed  belief  structure.  Since  the
evaluations by Dr. K, Dr. S, and Dr. T (see below), Applicant has not participated in any
counseling. (Tr.2 at 157; GE 7)
On  December 12, 2022,  Applicant’s  attorney referred him  to  Dr.  T for their own
psychological assessment. Dr. T has a Ph.D. in counseling and is a licensed marriage
and  family  therapist  (LMFT),  and  a  certified  employee  assistance  professional.  Dr.  T
conducted a two-hour interview with Applicant and reviewed Dr. K’s and Dr. S’s reports.
Dr.  T  did  not  review  any  of  Applicant’s  medical  records,  background  investigation
records,  or  conduct  any  psychological  testing.  Dr.  T  prepared  a  report  reflecting  her
findings and opinions. (Tr.2 at 23-24, 28, 40-48; GE 5, 7; AE A)
During Applicant’s interview with Dr. T, he reported several events to her that he
denied  telling  Dr.  S  about  during  her  clinical  interview.  These  events  included  his
assertion that he was the victim of a home break-in by the IRS or a security company
working for the IRS, that the security company people moved into an apartment above
his  apartment,  and  that  he  had  his  truck  broken  into  multiple  times.  (Tr.2  at  100-101,
104; GE 7; GE 7; AE A)
Based upon Applicant’s clinical interview, and a review of both Dr. K’s, fitness for
duty  evaluation,  Dr.  S’s  report,  and  her  training  and  experience,  Dr.  T  opined  the
following:
1. Applicant does not appear to present with psychological symptoms that would
impair his judgment at this time or working within his scope of practice and knowledge;
2.  Applicant  denied  a  history  of  delusional  or  psychotic  process,  and  none  is
currently evident;
3.  Applicant  demonstrated  no  “fixed  beliefs”  regarding  whether  the  IRS  had
surveilled  him,  rather,  he  posited  that  as  the  only  possibility  that  came  to  him,  which
could explain the events that transpired.
Dr.  T  opined  that  Applicant’s  mental  state  was  healthy,  although  he  appeared  naïve
concerning his beliefs about his view of the IRS surveilling him. She also did not believe
Applicant  fit  the  diagnosis  for  paranoia  because  he  only  expressed  his  paranoia
regarding his concern about the IRS and not everything else in his life. (Tr.2 at 27-28,
30-32, 34)
Character  Evidence.
Applicant presented a letter from his supervisor for the last five years, who stated
that  Applicant  “has  never  given  him  a  reason  to  believe  he  is  a  threat  to  national
security.”  He  does  not  state  whether  he  was  aware  of  the  reasons  why  Applicant’s
clearance was being reviewed. (AE B)
Applicant  presented  a  letter  from  a  coworker  who  has  worked  with  him  for  four
years and opines that he is a “most trustworthy individual, worthy of the highest security
clearances.”  He  also  views  Applicant  as  a  dependable  and  stable  man.  He  does  not
state  whether  he  was  aware  of  the  reasons  why  Applicant’s  clearance  was  being
reviewed. (AE C)
