After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  52  years  old,  married,  with  two  adult  children.  She  earned  her
associate degree in August 2019. Since June 2017, she has worked full time for a defense
contractor. In May 2019, she was approved for a security clearance. (Item 3.)
The SOR alleged eleven delinquent consumer accounts totaling $30,621. (Item 1.)
Applicant admitted the allegations and in some cases disputed the amount alleged. She
produced  no  documents  in  support  of  her  answers.  (Item  2.)  The  record  supports  the
Government’s  allegations,  and  she  confirmed  these  delinquencies  in  her December 8,
2021  Personal  Subject  Interview  (PSI).  The  delinquent  accounts  went  into  collections
between 2017 and 2019. (Items 4 and 5.)
In  her PSI,  Applicant  explained  that  in  2016 and  2017,  her nephews needed  to
come and live with her and her husband. To accommodate the new family members, they
had to move to a larger home. The extra expenses associated with her nephews lead to
her  debts.  She  was  spending  more  money  than  she  was  making.  She  was  trying  to
provide for her family with no other options. She is having conversations with creditors to
take care of her debts. She now lives with her daughter to save more money. She spends
less now, and she is working on paying all her debts on time. (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, then the applicant is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . ..” The applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An
individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security  concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit report. AG ¶¶  19(a) and  19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. Having reviewed all of the mitigating condition under AG ¶ 20,
I find only the following potentially applicable:
(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or  occurred
under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast
doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
(b)  the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond
the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business  downturn,
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear
victimization by  predatory lending practices, or identity  theft),  and  the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.
I  have  considered  condition  AG  ¶  20(a).  Applicant’s  SOR  debts  went  into
collections between 2017 and 2019. That is not that long ago. The debts are numerous
and remain in default today. Her debts are not mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a).
I have considered AG ¶ 20(b). The record shows that Applicant’s financial travails
were caused by the need for her nephews to come and live with her and her husband.
Applicant, therefore, moved to a larger home to accommodate her nephews. That move
and  related  costs  increased  her  expenses  and  caused  the  delinquent  debts  she  now
confronts.  To  ameliorate  her  financial  troubles,  she  moved  in  with  her  adult  daughter.
Although she claims she is now working with her creditors to resolve her debts, she has
not provided any documents to support this assertion. The Appeals Board has routinely
expected  applicants  to  submit  documents  supporting  their  explanations  and  that  their
indebtedness is being addressed concretely and  is on the way to being resolved. See,
e.g., ISCR Case No. 20-00615 at 2 (Jun. 7, 2021). On this record, I cannot find that AG ¶
20(b) applies.
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and its factors). In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about her eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  mitigated  the  security
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  k:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
