After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  33  years old  and  is  a  college  graduate  (June  2013).  He  has  never
married and has no children. Since August 2020, he has been employed by a defense
contractor. (Item 3.) He reported the following periods of unemployment: January 2010 to
July 2014; November 2018 to February 2019, and; March 2020 to August 2020. (Items 3
and 7.)
The August 3, 2022 SOR alleged three delinquent accounts, two federal student
loans totaling $60,090 and a delinquent auto loan for $8,840. (Item 1.) Applicant denied
those allegations. (Item 2.)
Applicant attached to his Answer an August 15, 2022 letter to him from the U.S.
Department of Education confirming a defaulted student loan rehabilitation agreement,
whereby  he  will  pay  $708  per  month  beginning  on  October  2,  2022.  His  signed
rehabilitation  agreement  was  included  with  his  Response.  Failure  to  make  those
payments  will  result  in  the  loans  becoming  delinquent.  He  did  not  submit  documents
showing any payments made under the rehabilitation agreement. (Item 2 and Response.)
The student loans were assigned for collection in December 2013. ((Items 4 and 5.)
Applicant attached to his Answer an August 23, 2022  letter to him from his auto
loan  creditor  confirming  a  settlement  agreement,  whereby  he  will  pay  35  monthly
payments of $185 to resolve the debt for less than the full balance. In his Response, he
submitted a cancelled check showing a December 11, 2022 payment of $185 under this
agreement.  If  all  required  payments  are  not  made,  the  account  will  not  be  considered
settled.  (Item  2  and  Response.)  The  auto  loan  was  assigned  for  collection  in  January
2014. (Item 4.)
Applicant attributed his three delinquent debts to periods of unemployment. (Item
7.)  He  did  not  specify  which  period  or  periods  of  unemployment  caused  his  financial
difficulties.  He  is  “currently  financially  stable”  and  “is  capable  of  meeting  obligations.”
There is “nobody that would question [his] ability to live within [his] means.” (Item 7.)
Law and Policies
It   is  well  established   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly  consistent  standard
that   security
determinations should err, if they must,  on  the  side  of denials.” Department of the  Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability  for  a   security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge   must  consider  the   adjudicative  guidelines.  These   guidelines  are
flexible  rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider all  available and  reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of  the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
judgment,  or
obligations  may
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An
individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security  concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a) inability to satisfy debts;
(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The SOR debts are established by Applicant’s admissions in his Personal Subject
Interview and the Government’s credit reports. AG ¶¶ 19(a) through 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are
potentially applicable:
(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,   trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment; and
(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to repay
overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(a). Applicant’s SOR debts
were assigned to collections  about 10 years ago. That is admittedly quite some
time  ago.  They  have,  however,  remained  in  collections  since  that  time,  even
though  he  claims  to  be  “financially  stable”  and  “capable  of  meeting  [his]
obligations.”  He  apparently  elected  not  to  meet  his  SOR  debt  obligations  over
those  10  years.  That  casts  doubt  on  his  current  reliability.  His  debts  are  not
mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a).
I  have  considered  mitigating  condition  AG  ¶  20(d).  Since  the  SOR  was
issued on August 3, 2022, Applicant has been quite busy. By August 15, 2022, he
had arranged to have his two delinquent student loans put into rehabilitation. And
just over a week later, on August 23, 2022, he arranged an installment settlement
agreement with his auto creditor and made one payment in December under that
agreement.
It  is  difficult  not  to  conclude  that  Applicant’s  sudden  attention  to  his
delinquent  student  loans  and  his  delinquent  auto  loan  was  prompted  by  the
issuance  of  the  SOR.  Timing  like  this  is  pertinent,  as  the  Appeals  Board  has
observed:  “Applicants  who  begin  to  resolve  their  debts  only  after  having  been
placed on notice that their clearances or trustworthiness . . . are in jeopardy may
be disinclined to follow rules and regulations when their personal interests are not
at stake.” ISCR Case No. 16-03122 at 3-4 (App. Bd. Aug. 17, 2018). His debts are
not mitigated under AG ¶ 20(d).
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and factors).  In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  did  not  mitigate  the  security
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  c.:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
