Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  October  2019.  He  received  a  high  school  diploma  in  2003.  He  has  not
been married and has no  children. He  served  on active  reserve duty  with  the  U.S.  Air
Force from 2005 to 2013 and received an honorable discharge. (Items 3, 8)
Applicant has a history of mental health issues and inpatient hospitalizations. He
has  been  diagnosed  with  schizophrenia  and  unspecified  psychotic  disorder  by  a  duly
qualified  mental  health  professional.  His  mental-health  disorders  cause  periods  of
psychosis where he suffers from delusions, hallucinations, paranoia, and memory loss.
He began experiencing these symptoms in about 2010. (Items 2, 3, 5, 7, 8)
In  late  November  2019,  Applicant  checked  himself  into  an  inpatient  hospital  for
mental  health  treatment  because  he  was  suffering  from  an  increase  in  audio-visual
hallucinations, high  anxiety,  and insomnia.  During  this inpatient  treatment, he  reported
that,  for  years,  he  had  been  misusing  prescription  Xanax  and  prescription  Ambien  by
taking  more  than  the  amount  he  was  prescribed.  He  also  reported  that  he  had  been
binge  drinking  about  a  pint  of  liquor  one  to  two  times  per  week  to  help  him  sleep.
According  to  his  medical  records  form  this  hospital,  combining  alcohol  with  several  of
the  prescription  drugs  he  was  taking  is  a  misuse  of  those  prescription  drugs.  This
inpatient treatment lasted for about a week. During this treatment, a certified psychiatric
nurse practitioner diagnosed him with an unspecified schizophrenic spectrum and other
psychotic disorder, and an unspecified stimulant use disorder (moderate). (Items 2, 3, 5,
7, 8)
In  January  2020,  Applicant  reported  that  he  voluntarily  checked  himself  in  to
another inpatient hospital because he was again suffering from psychosis. There is no
evidence  in  the  record  as  to  how  long  this  second  inpatient  hospitalization  lasted,  the
specific  treatment  he  received,  or  whether  he  was  diagnosed  with  a  mental  health
disorder. (Items 2, 3, 7)
Applicant was evaluated at the DOD’s request by a licensed psychiatrist, and the
report of the evaluation was issued on March 8, 2022. After meeting with him virtually,
reviewing the results of an online psychological inventory, and reviewing Items 3, 5, 6,
and  8,  the  DOD’s  licensed  psychiatrist  found  his  condition  to  be  “suspicious  for
schizophrenia,”  but  diagnosed  him  with  an  unspecified  psychotic  disorder  and
polysubstance  abuse  of  alcohol  and  prescription  medication.  She  opined  that  his
conditions are likely to impair his reliability, judgment, stability, and trustworthiness, and
that his prognosis was guarded. Her prognosis was partly based upon the premise that
he  was  not  receiving  psychiatric  treatment,  but  he  had  made  an  appointment  to  start
doing so. According to a letter from his treatment provider dated October 20, 2022, he
received  psychiatric  treatment  from  a  licensed  psychiatric  nurse  practitioner  since
March  28,  2022,  and  he  remained  stable  on  his  current  medication  and  treatment
regimen. This licensed psychiatric nurse practitioner diagnosed him with schizophrenia
and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). (Items 2, 3, 5, 7, 8)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  has  made  poor decisions  and  has  shown  poor
judgment  when  he  is suffering  from  psychosis.  For  example,  in  March  2020,  when  he
was  suffering  from  psychosis,  he  drove  while  he  was  intoxicated.  He  claimed  that  he
would not have driven while intoxicated if he had not been suffering from psychosis. He
also claimed that he has only abused his prescription medications and alcohol when he
was  in  a  period  of  psychosis  and  claimed  that  he  would  not  have  abused  those
substances otherwise. (Items 2-8)
Applicant claimed that he is feeling better mentally. He claimed that his treatment
with a licensed psychiatric nurse practitioner has helped, and that he plans to continue
that  treatment,  including  following  her  advice  regarding  prescription  medication.  He
claimed  he  has  had  no  episodes  of  psychosis  after  his  January  2020  inpatient
hospitalization. He claimed that he has learned better coping mechanisms. At the time
of his meeting with the DOD psychiatrist, he had recently moved in with his father and
lived  closer  to  his  siblings  and  one  of  his  good  friends.  He  noted  that  he  has  sought
inpatient treatment whenever he has a period of psychosis. He did not indicate whether
he  still  suffers  from  audio  or  visual  hallucinations  or  paranoia.  He  has  not  received
substance  abuse  counseling  other  than  detoxification.  The  DOD  licensed  psychiatrist
opined that he should be receiving treatment for substance abuse. She also noted that
he  had  a  lower-than-average  motivation  for  treatment  level  compared  to  others  with
mental  health  issues  and  that  he  sees  little  need  for  changes  in  his  behavior.  She
opined that these qualities are poor prognostic indicators. (Items 2, 3, 7, 8)
In  February  2008,  Applicant  drove  while  intoxicated.  He  was  stopped  by  police
and  arrested  for  aggravated  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  He  was
convicted of this crime. He spent four days in jail and had to pay fines. (Items 2-4, 7)
In  March  2020,  Applicant  was  consuming  alcohol  while  in  a  state  of  psychosis.
His dog got out of his house and went missing. Applicant drove his car while intoxicated
to attempt to find his dog. While he was driving while intoxicated, he struck a power line
pole  with  his  vehicle.  Police  arrested  him  and  charged  him  with  extreme  DUI  (.15  per
cent blood alcohol content (BAC) or higher). He spent the night in jail. In July 2021, he
pleaded guilty  to a  lesser charge of  reckless driving.  The court suspended  his  driver’s
license  for  90  days  and  ordered  him  to  pay  about  $1,300  in  fines.  The  court  also
ordered  him  to  undergo  an  online  drug  and  alcohol  screening.  As  of  his  June  2020
security  interview,  he  had  not  taken  this  online  screening  and  has  not  provided  any
evidence that he has since completed it. (Items 2-4, 6-8)
Applicant  provided  inconsistent  information  about  his  alcohol  consumption.
During  his  2019  inpatient  hospitalization,  Applicant  reported  his  aforementioned
consumption of a pint of liquor one to two times per week. During his June 2020 security
interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  he  drinks  four  beers  about  four  to  five  hours
before  he  takes  his prescription  medications.  He  told  the  DOD  licensed  psychiatrist  in
March 2022 that he had not consumed alcohol since his 2020 DUI arrest. He also told
her that he had not consumed alcohol in about eight months. He later told her that it had
been a year since he last had alcohol. In his response to the SOR, he claimed that  he
now rarely drinks alcohol and only has a couple of drinks when he does. He provided no
evidence  that  he  is  permitted  to  consume  alcohol  while  on  his  current  prescription
medication regimen. (Items 2, 5, 7, 8)
Beginning in about June 2013, for a little  over two years, Applicant misused his
employer-issued  company  credit  card  by  using  it  to  pay  about  $86,000  for  personal
expenses. In April 2016, his employer fired him for this credit card misuse. He claimed
that he thought there was an unwritten rule that he could use the company credit card
for personal expenses if he timely paid off his balance. However, he did not timely pay
off  the balance.  He claimed  that he  has  since  satisfied the account  after paying  about
$20,000 on it over two years. He provided no documentary evidence of this resolution.
He claimed that he now understands this misuse was wrong and he has not misused a
company credit card since 2015. (Items 2, 3, 7, 8)
