After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 33 years old, married (March 2017), and has no children. She earned
an  associate’s  degree  in May 2013  and  a  bachelor’s degree  in  May  2015. Since  March
2021, she has worked for a defense contractor. (Item 2.)
The SOR alleges ten delinquent federal student loans totaling $35,230 and two
delinquent consumer debts totaling $2,820. (Item 1S.) Applicant admitted the student loan
allegations,  stating:  “I  was  making  payments  to  my  loans  and  then  Covid-19  put
everything  on  hold  and  I  wasn’t  allowed  to  make  payments.  I  will  resume  making
payments when allowed.” She denied the two consumer debts, saying that they had been
paid  in  full.  She  produced  no  documents.  (Item  1A.)  In  her  October  5,  2021  Personal
Subject Interview (PSI), she explained further about her student loans:
She took about $25,000 to $30,000 per year in loans for a total of
$50,000. She started making payments monthly payments of $130 in 2015.
She  had  no  problems  making  those  payments  until  Covid-19  froze  all
payments in the spring of 2020. No payments were expected. She has not
been notified when payments will be starting again. She has heard nothing
from creditors, a collection agency, or a government agency. That was why
she did not list these loans on her [SCA]. She believed they were in good
standing. She said the current balance is about $35,000. (Item 3.)
Applicant  completed  a  Personal Financial  Statement  (PFS)  on  March  22,  2022.
She and her spouse earn $5,000 per month. Their monthly expenses and debt service
total $3,000. Thus, their net monthly remainder is $1,994. (Item 4.)
Each  of  Applicant’s  federal student loans  are  noted  as follows on  the  credit reports:
PLACED  FOR  COLLECTION,  STUDENT  LOAN  ASSIGNED  TO  GOVERNMENT,
CLOSED.  Otherwise,  her  credit  reports  show  no  defaults,  save  for  the  two  SOR  non-
student loan accounts she claims have been paid in full. (Items 5 and 6.)
The following is the latest on the status of the federal student loan program:
The  student  loan  payment  pause  began  in  March  2020.  The  student  loan
payment  pause  is  extended  until the  U.S.  Department  of Education  [DOE] is
permitted to implement the debt relief program or the litigation is resolved.
Payments will restart 60 days later.  If the debt  relief program has not  been
implemented  and  the  litigation  has  not  been  resolved  by  June  30,  2023  –
payments  will  resume  60  days  after  that.  We  [DOE]  will  notify  borrowers
before payments restart.
COVID-19 Emergency Relief and Federal Student Aid  https://studentaid.gov>covid-
19/public-service-loan-forgiveness.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that   security
Supreme   Court  held,  “the   clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must,  on  the  side  of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability  for  a   security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, then the applicant is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
judgment,  or
obligations  may
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An
lack  of
individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline F notes conditions that could raise security concerns under AG ¶ 19. I
have  considered  the  following  three  conditions,  because  they  are  the  ones  most
commonly implicated in financial cases:
(a) inability to satisfy debts;
(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
Applicant spent five years faithfully paying $130 per month to defray her student
loans. That track record was interrupted only by Covid-19 and the federal government’s
payment pause. She has stated her willingness to resume payments when notified. Her
PFS  shows  she  is  quite  capable  of  resuming  those  payments.  The  payment  pause
remains in effect, until further notice by the Government.  None of the three potentially
disqualifying  conditions  quoted  above  apply.  Nor  do  any  other  conditions  in  AG  ¶  19
apply. Therefore, it is not necessary to consider the mitigating conditions set forth in AG
¶ 20.
The amounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1i. and 1.l do not raise national security concerns.
I find for Applicant on SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.l.
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and factors).  In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant  leaves  me  with  no  questions  about  her  eligibility  and  suitability  for  a
security  clearance.  For  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  did  not  mitigate  the
security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  1.l.:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented,  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
