Applicant admitted all of the allegations in his Answer to the SOR. (¶¶1.a, 1.b 1.c,
2.a,  and  2.b.)  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  58  years old.  He  was  previously  married  from  about  1986  to  2004,
and he is currently single. He has one adult daughter. He graduated from high school in
1983. He has been employed by his present employer, a federal contractor, since May
2001.  His  job  title  is  machinist.  Applicant  was  granted  a  DOD  security  clearance  in
December  2001.  He  needs  to  maintain  his  security  clearance  to  perform  his
employment duties. (Tr. 22-25; GE 1)
Drug Involvement and Falsification
In  his  September  2021  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  Applicant
intentionally failed to disclose, as required, that he had used and purchased marijuana
from  May  2001  to  the  time  he  submitted  the  SCA  and  while  possessing  a  security
clearance.  (SOR  ¶  2.a.)  He  testified  at  the  hearing  that  he  did  not  disclose  this
information because he was worried that he would lose his DOD security clearance and
be fired by his employer. He also admitted that he deliberately failed to disclose his use
and  purchase  of  marijuana  to  an  authorized  DOD  investigator  during  his  November
2021  background  interview.  (SOR  ¶  2.b.)  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  had
stopped using marijuana ten years ago. The investigator was aware that Applicant had
not  disclosed  any  illegal  drug  use  during  his  previous  investigation  that  had  occurred
about  ten  years earlier.  The  investigator  interrogated  him  further, and  Applicant  stated
he realized the investigator caught him in a lie. He was tired of lying about his marijuana
use  and decided to disclose  the  full details about  his marijuana use.  (GE 1,  GE  2;  Tr.
17-21, 32-35)
Applicant stated that even though he possessed a DOD security clearance at the
time he submitted the September 2021 SCA, he never had the intention to abstain from
smoking  marijuana.  He  has  lied  about  his  illegal  drug  use  since  he  was  hired  by  his
employer  in  May  2001.  Despite  his  history  of  using  marijuana,  he  stated  that  he  has
consistently been a valued and hard-working employee. (Tr. 21)
Applicant  admitted  that  in  August  1986,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with
possession of a controlled substance. (SOR ¶ 1.a.) He testified that he actually had two
incidents of getting into trouble with the police for illegal drugs, but due to the age of the
arrest,  he  could not  specifically recall any details  about  the incident.  (Tr. 25-27;  GE  2,
GE 3)
According to an interrogatory completed by Applicant on May 18, 2022, he listed
that he had used marijuana daily from January 1980 to May 17, 2022, and he had future
intentions  of  using  marijuana.  Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  use  marijuana  daily
during that entire period. When he was first hired by his employer, he believed he may
have abstained from using marijuana for about a year. He admitted during the hearing
that he continues to use marijuana. (GE 2; Tr. 27-29)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  also  purchased  marijuana  while  holding  a  DOD
security  clearance.  (SOR  ¶ 1.c.) He disclosed during his background interview that he
spends  about  $100  every  two  months  to  purchase  marijuana  from  a  friend  who
possesses a medical marijuana card. He smokes marijuana in the evenings to relax and
it  also  helps  with  his arthritis  pain.  He testified  that  in  September 2022,  he obtained  a
medical  marijuana  card  and  he  has  recently  purchased  marijuana  from  a  dispensary.
He  provided  documentation  from  September 2022  that  his  application  to  participate  in
his  state’s  medical  marijuana  program  had  been  approved.  He  was  aware  the  use  of
marijuana  is  illegal  under  federal  law,  and  that  the  Federal  Government  and  his
employer  have  a  policy  against  people  holding  a  security  clearance  and  using  illegal
drugs. (GE 2; Tr. 29-32, 35-36; AE C, AE D)
Applicant submitted two character reference letters from his direct supervisor and
the  operations  manager  from  his  place  of  employment.  Both  references  praised
Applicant’s  outstanding  work  ethic  and  personal  commitment  to  the  mission.  They
believe Applicant is an asset for his employer and the DOD. (AE A, AE B)
