Applicant,  57,  has  worked  as  an  employee  of  multiple  federal  contracting
companies  since  at  least  December  1999.  He  has  spent  his  entire  career  working
overseas and is currently working on a federal contract in Europe. He served in the United
States Army from 1990 to 1997. He was initially granted access to classified information
during his military service. It is unclear from the record if he has held a security clearance
continuously since 1990. He also reported being granted access to classified information
in 2009.
Applicant  completed  his  most  recent  security  clearance  application  in  October
2018. He disclosed one delinquent debt, an $8,000 child support arrearage, which is now
resolved.  The  ensuing  investigation  revealed  that  in  2012,  the  Army  sought  to  debar
Applicant from Government employment for six years after an investigation substantiated
allegations that Applicant participated in a conspiracy to defraud the Government. The
investigation also revealed that Applicant owed over $37,000 on four delinquent debts.
(GE 1 – 9)
In November 2013, the Army Criminal Investigation Command (CID) Expeditionary
Fraud Resident Agency, issued a report of investigation in which Applicant and his federal
contractor  employer  were  among  several  subjects  investigated  as  participants  in  a
conspiracy between October 2004 and September 2009, to defraud the U.S. Government
to  obtain  a  contract  to  supply bottled  water  to  a  U.S.  military  installation  in  the  Middle
East. The investigation determined that Applicant, the operations manager for a federal
contracting company, acting on behalf of his employer, gave a junior Army officer $2,000.
In turn, the officer provided  procurement sensitive  information  to  Applicant’s employer.
The  investigation  determined  that  both  Applicant  and  his  employer  committed  the
offenses of conspiracy, bribery, and bid-rigging in violation of multiple federal statutes.
In  December  2012,  the  Army  took  administrative  action  against  Applicant,
imposing a civilian debarment against him for six years. In February 2013, a trial attorney
with  the  Department  of  Justice  Public  Integrity  Division  determined  that  there  was
insufficient  probable  cause  to  find  Applicant  committed  the  offenses  of  conspiracy,
bribery,  and  bid-rigging.  Other  than  the  Commander’s  Report  of  Disciplinary  or
Administrative Action, which notes the debarment without explanation, there is no other
documentation, as required by Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) § 9.406-3, about
the  details  of  the  debarment,  specifically  the  notice  of  proposal  to  debar,  the  written
findings of fact –  which are required whenever the decision to debar is not based on a
conviction  or  civil  judgment,  or  the  debarring  official’s  decision  –  which  would  have
specified the actual term of debarment imposed. (GE 5-6)
Applicant  offered  little  information  about  the  CID  investigation  or  his  eventual
debarment during the background investigation or in response to the SOR. He did not
disclose the debarment on his October 2018 security clearance application in response
to  Section  25:  Investigations  and  Clearance  Record:  “Have  you  EVER  been  debarred
from  government  employment?”  He  also  failed  to  disclose  his  employment  with  the
federal contracting company identified in the CID investigation.
During  the  October  2004  to  September  2009  period  covered  by  the  CID
investigation, Applicant reported on his security clearance application that he worked for
Company A as a production control clerk from December 1999 to February 2005. He also
reported that he worked for Company B as a production control lead from March 2005 to
December  2009.  Both  positions  for  Company  A  and  B  occurred  on  the  same  military
installation in the Middle East identified in the CID report. Applicant also reported that he
worked  for  Company  C  between  December  2008  and  December  2009,  as  a  supply
technician for a contract on a U.S. military installation in Asia. During the period when his
debarment was issued and in effect, Applicant disclosed employment with Company D,
also a federal contracting company on the same military installation in the Middle East
identified in the CID investigation. There is no explanation for why he failed to disclose
the employment identified in the CID investigation, or how he remained an employee of
a  federal  contracting  company,  or  on  a  U.S.  military  installation  after  receiving  the
debarment.
In an October 2019 interview with a background investigator, Applicant was asked
to explain why he did not disclose the debarment on his security clearance application.
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  forgot  about  that  period.  He  explained  his
involvement in the investigated conspiracy as involuntary. He explained that his friend, a
senior  Army  officer,  asked  him  to  give  an  envelope  to  a  junior  Army  officer.  Applicant
claimed that he was unaware of the contents of the envelope and did not suspect anything
was  amiss until  he  was  interviewed  by  Army  investigators  weeks  later.  The  Army  CID
investigation determined that the senior Army officer also had a financial interest company
that employed Applicant. Applicant claimed that he recalled receiving a letter about the
debarment.  He  reported  that  he  complied  with  the  letter  and  did  not  challenge  the
decision.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  was  not  sure  why  he  was  debarred  and
continued with his life. (GE 6, GE 9)
In  a  second  background  interview  in  April  2021,  Applicant  told  a  different
investigator that he was unaware of the debarment until his divorce proceedings in 2016.
When  asked  by  the  investigator  how  he  was  able  to  continue  to  work  on  the  military
installation in the Middle East, he stated that no one told him or his employer that he was
required to leave. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant reiterated that he did not learn of
the debarment until his 2016 divorce proceeding. He provided a Debarment Termination
Notice  from  the  Army,  dated  October  27,  2016,  which  indicated  that  Applicant’s
debarment was terminated effective October 25, 2016, and that he had been removed
from the award management system as an excluded party. (GE 2, GE 9)
The  investigation  also  revealed  that  Applicant  owed  four  creditors  $37,951  in
delinquent  debt.  Applicant  incurred  the  debts  on  four  credit  cards,  during  a  period  of
unemployment. He also used the credit cards  to pay the legal expenses related to his
2016 divorce. He enrolled the four debts in a debt consolidation service. The service, to
which he pays $574 each month, negotiates settlements with the creditors when possible
and pays off the accounts. At the time he enrolled in the program, the debts were in good
standing. He did not realize that the service would allow the debts to become delinquent
before resolving them. As of February 2022, the debt consolidation service resolved the
debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d ($9,462). He did not provide any documentation regarding the
current state of his finances.  (GE 2, GE 7-8)
