In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶ 1.b,  1.c, and
1.d. (HE 3)  He denied  the  allegations in SOR ¶¶  1.a  and  1.e.  He also  provided  mitigating
information.  His admissions  are  accepted as findings  of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  technician  for  various  training  devices  for  complex
aviation systems. (Tr. 6, 9) In 1999, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 6) In 2017, he
received an associate degree in programming and game design, and in 2001, he received
a bachelor’s degree in electronics engineering. (Tr. 6-7; GE 1) He served in the Air Force
from  2002  to  2014,  and  he  received  an  honorable  discharge.  (Tr.  7)  When  he  was
discharged,  he  was  a  staff  sergeant  (E-5).  (Tr.  7)  He  did  not  receive  any  nonjudicial
punishments while in the Air Force. (Tr. 7) He did not receive a medical discharge from
the  Air  Force.  (Tr. 8) The  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA) has  awarded  him  a  70
percent disability rating, which includes 50 percent for adjustment disorder and anxiety
disorder. (Tr. 8)
Psychological Conditions
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant has a history of being unable to control his anger and
having angry outbursts, including at work. Applicant disagreed with SOR ¶ 1.a because
he can control his anger and has never physically attacked anyone. (SOR response) His
angry  outbursts  are  not  random.  (Tr.  81)  The  angry  outbursts  were  caused  by  an
argument  with  someone.  (Tr.  81)  He  said  he  has  an  exaggerated  response  to  real
provocation. (Tr. 83) He believes he has the tools to enable him to respond appropriately
to provocations. (Tr. 83)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant experienced suicidal ideations on various occasions
between at least about 1998 and 2018. He said suicidal ideations are common, and he
has successfully overcome these issues. (SOR response) He was 17 years old in 1998,
and  he  had  some  issues  relating  to  being  verbally  bullied  in  high  school.  (Tr.  21)  His
symptoms of depression and suicidality dissipated when he left high school and entered
college. (Tr. 21)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in about 2004, Applicant received a letter of reprimand and was
referred for mental-health treatment after he told his Air Force supervisor that he thought
about killing him and that he should have killed him.
Applicant’s argument with his supervisor, a technical sergeant (E-7), began with a
discussion of the proper drill bit to use to remove rivets. (Tr. 25) After a brief discussion,
the technical sergeant told Applicant, who was a senior airman (E-4), to come into the
office. (Tr. 25) Applicant’s immediate supervisor, a staff sergeant (E-5) was in the office
as an observer. (Tr. 27) Once they were in the office, the argument became heated, and
Applicant threatened to “take his supervisor out now.” (Tr. 23-24, 27) Applicant said he
was inconsolable; however, he did not actually intend to kill his supervisor. (Tr. 28) His
supervisor suggested that he obtain counseling. (Tr. 30) He received counseling, and he
was  prescribed  Wellbutrin  for  anxiety.  (Tr.  33-34)  He  took  Wellbutrin  for  about  two
months.  (Tr.  33-34)  He  had  side  effects,  including  headaches,  and  he  had  another
outburst in the middle of a physical training session. (Tr. 34) He was advised to stop taking
it.  (Tr.  30,  34)  He  was  not  prescribed  anything  to  replace  the  Wellbutrin.  (Tr.  35)  He
attended counseling twice a month for about three months. (Tr. 33) During his follow-up
treatment, he was possibly diagnosed with Unspecified Anxiety Disorder. (Tr. 31)
In March 2010, Applicant was assigned to an Air Force base in the United States,
and he was scheduled to deploy overseas. (Tr. 37-38) He was worried that he might have
a nervous breakdown if he was around the wrong people, and he advised his command
that he may have problems if he is deployed. (Tr. 37-39) A March 2, 2010 medical note
states:
Pt stated his anxiety interferes with his everyday activities. He stated he is
social[ly]  isolated  from  everyday  activities.  Member  prefers  to  stay  at  his
residence for fear of anxiety of what others will think. Pt stated his anxiety
is so severe he cannot go into a store by himself. . . . Pt reported he was
taking psychotropic medications for his issues but felt they did not work and
gave him headaches. Pt reported he did not have a very close relationship
with his family. . . . Pt reported having severe anger issues to the point of
kick[ing] and throwing stuff. His last reported episode of getting angry was
a few weeks ago at a fellow co-worker. Pt reported sleeping 2-3 hrs a night
and eating only one meal a day. Pt stated he has passive [suicidal ideation]
(not  currently)  but  denies  any  suicidal  plan,  intent  or  urges.  Pt  denied
homicidal ideation/plan/intent/urges. (Tr. 44; GE 6 at 46)
Applicant said the March 2, 2010 medical note was accurate. (Tr. 45) In June 2010, his
treating  physician  prescribed  Zoloft;  however,  it  was  not  effective,  and  Applicant  had
headaches. (Tr. 45-46; GE 6 at 21) Applicant did not accept and comply with the medical
advice. (Tr. 45) He received a mental-health evaluation, and his command removed him
from the list of personnel being deployed because of anxiety. (Tr. 37-38, 41-42)
Applicant took Celexa for two years; however, he believed he did not remember
when he took Celexa. (Tr. 48-49; GE 6 at 22) He did not have any negative side effects
from Celexa; however, he did not believe he received any positive effects from it. (Tr. 50)
A September 15, 2010 medical note indicates he was prescribed Prozac; however, he
never picked up his Prozac because he does not like taking psychiatric medications. (Tr.
47;  GE  6  at  16)  He  did  not  take  any  medications  after  September  2010.  (Tr.  50)  He
stopped seeing a mental-health practitioner in October 2010. (Tr. 51)
On  October  17,  2010,  Applicant  called  the  mental-health  clinic  and  advised  his
anxiety symptoms were returning and he wanted an appointment. (GE 6 at 5) He received
an appointment on October 29, 2010, and an October 29, 2010 medical note states, “Pt
[states] he no longer wishes to continue mental health treatment, despite no change in
his poorly controlled social anxiety [signs and symptoms]. Strongly recommend to pt that
he reconsider his decision. Pt [states] he is sure about his current decision to terminate
treatment.” (Tr. 53; GE 6 at 7)
On  October  29,  2012,  Applicant  went  to  the  mental-health  clinic,  and  he  was
diagnosed with Social Anxiety. (GE 6 at 3) The treatment plan was for him to return to the
clinic on a weekly basis for 10 weeks. (Id.) The next medical note is Applicant was a “no
show” for an appointment on November 8, 2012. (Id. at 1) At his hearing, Applicant said
he did not remember why he sought treatment in October 2012. (Tr. 55)
Anger  management  was  suggested  for  Applicant;  however,  he  never  received
anger management counseling. (Tr. 59) He said, “My anger outbursts always coincided
with quite a bit of hostility towards me or pressure or something along those lines. I just
don’t get randomly angry.” (Tr. 59) He described his outbursts as a defensive response
or  mechanism  to  being  patronized  or  “ganged  up  on.”  (Tr.  76)  His  response  is  to
“randomly say stuff.” (Tr. 76) His responses are primarily verbal outbursts, and  he  has
never harmed anyone. (Tr. 77-78)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about November 2018, Applicant attempted suicide. During
his  follow-up  hospitalization,  he  was  diagnosed  with  Adjustment  Disorder,  Unspecified
Personality  Disorder  with  Borderline  Traits,  and  Social  Anxiety  Disorder.  In  his  SOR
response, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.d without any elaboration or explanation.
Applicant  has experienced  suicidal ideations  periodically from  high  school to  the
present  day. (Tr. 64-65) In  November 2018, Applicant’s long-term  girlfriend  (five  years)
texted   him   that  their   relationship   was  over,   and   he   went  home   and   discovered   her
belongings were  gone  as well as most of the  household items. (Tr. 60; GE  5  at 1)  He
videotaped a 10-minute will. (GE 4 at 5) He was overwhelmed  and triggered. (Tr. 60) He
went to  sleep, and  when  he  woke  up, he  took a  steak knife  and  superficially cut his wrists.
(Tr. 61;  GE  5  at  1) He  sent  a  message  on  the  Internet,  and  a  police  officer took him  to  the
hospital, where he  was  admitted  as an  inpatient  from  November 28  to  30, 2018.  (Tr. 61-
62; GE 5)  Medical records for November 2018  reflect the  diagnosis in SOR ¶  1.d. (GE 5
at 7)
On June 20, 2022, S, Ph.D., evaluated Applicant on behalf of the CAF. (GE 3) Dr.
S  diagnosed  him  with:  (1)  Social  Anxiety  Disorder,  (2)  Rule  Out  Major  Depressive
Disorder,  recurrent,  unspecified;  (3)  Personality  Disorder,  Unspecified  with  Borderline
Features (by history); and (4) Rule Out Psychotic Disorder (per MMPI-3 item responses).
(GE 3 at 5; SOR ¶ 1.e) Dr. S concluded his suicidal ideation, depression, and possible
personality disorder “could negatively impact his judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness
in safeguarding classified information or working in a cleared setting.” (GE 3 at 5) Dr. S
said he had “high confidence” in the accuracy of the information received from Applicant.
He summarized his report as follows:
[Applicant’s]  recurring  suicidal  ideation  depression,  poor  engagement  in,
and  follow  through  with  psychiatric  treatment,  and  his  endorsement  of
severe psychopathology on the MMPI-3 indicate the presence of significant
mental health concerns and the need for current, ongoing, engagement in
mental health services (i.e. therapy, medication management, etc.). (GE 3
at 5)
Applicant  disagreed  with  Rule  Out  Major  Depressive  Disorder  and  Rule  Out
Psychotic Disorder because those diagnoses were preliminary and not established. (SOR
response) He was dissatisfied with previous mental-health counseling because when he
received  counseling,  the  mental-health  professional  “just  wants  to  toss  medication”  at
him. (Id.) He was advised that treatment was voluntary, and he was not told his security
clearance  was  jeopardized  by  not  accepting  medication.  (Id.)  He  requested  a  second
evaluation. (Id.)
When   Applicant   is  in   unfamiliar  surroundings  or  is   engaged   in  something
unplanned, he  gets  “very shaky and  nervous,”  and  his voice slurs and  he  slightly  stutters.
(Tr.  40)  He  avoids  situations  where  he   feels  stress.  (Tr.  40)   His   most  recent  verbal
outburst was in late 2018 or early 2019 when  he  made comments to  his boss. (Tr. 79)
Applicant   decided   not to   seek  professional assistance   in  dealing   with   his stress
and  anxiety  after he  received  the  SOR because  he  “needed  to  handle  it” himself. (Tr. 69,
73)  After he  received  the  SOR, he  was concerned  seeking  help might be  viewed  as his
acceptance   that   he   had   “psychopathy,”  that  he   was  “weak  minded,”  or   that  he   was
“regressing” because  of the  timing. (Tr. 74-75) He plans to  seek counseling  in the  future
because  his security clearance  issue  has prompted  him  to  resume  treatment  in the  future.
(Tr. 70-71)  He  said  he  intends to  seek  “validation  for what  I’m  doing  or to  see  if there’s
something  that I’m  doing  wrong  or what have  you.” (Tr. 72) If  he  really needed  help,  he
would seek it. (Tr. 70)
