Applicant  is  52  years old.  He  is  married  a  second  time,  and  has  four  children,
ages 29, 25, 23, and 20.  He holds a Master’s degree.  He is employed by a defense
contractor  as  a  Software  Developer.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  engaged  in  the  illegal  use  of
controlled  substances  that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a
manner  inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability  and  trustworthiness,  and  his  ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with
laws, rules, and regulations.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant:  a.  used  marijuana  from  about  1999  to
November  2019,  and  intends  to  keep  using  marijuana;  b.  used  marijuana  while
possessing  a  security  clearance  from  January  2016  until  November  2019;  c.  used
hallucinogenic mushrooms while holding a security clearance in June 2018; and d. was
charged  with  marijuana  possession  and  placed  on  probation  in  2000.  Applicant
admitted each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  (See Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserves  from  1989  through  1998,  and
received  an  honorable  discharge.
Following  his  military  service,  he  obtained
employment  in  the  defense  industry,  working  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a  civilian.
(Government
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  December  2010.
Exhibit 3.)
In March 2012, Applicant completed a security clearance application and applied
In  the  application  he
for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time  as  a  civilian.
acknowledged  that  he  had  used  marijuana  from  about  March  1999  until  July  2009,  “a
couple times a week”.  In response to the question concerning whether he intended to
use  marijuana  in  the  future,  he  marked,  “No.”  Applicant  was  not  granted  a  security
clearance.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Three  years  later,  in  February  2015,  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance
application.  In  this  application  he  stated  that  his  marijuana  use  ended  in  June  2010,
rather than July 2009, as he had stated in his 2012 application.  Applicant stated that he
did  not  intend to use marijuana  again,  and  that  it does  not  interest  him like  it  used  to.
He also stated that he had distanced himself from friends who had encouraged the use
of pot.  Applicant was granted a security clearance.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
In  December  2019,  Applicant  completed  another  security  clearance  application.
In this application Applicant stated that he had resumed using marijuana in September
2015.  He  also  stated  that  between  2015  and  2018,  he  smoked  marijuana  with  his
friends  about  twice  a  year  at  social  gatherings.  He  explained  that  after  the  state  in
which  he  resides  legalized  the  use  of  marijuana  in  December  2018,  he  increased  his
marijuana  consumption  to  a  couple  of  times  a  week  at  social  gatherings.  Applicant
further  stated  that  he  has  not  used  marijuana  since  November  2019.
In  response  to
whether  he  intended  to  continue  using  marijuana,  Applicant  initially  stated  that  he  did
not intend to use marijuana again, but then qualified his response by stating that he did
not  know  if  he  could  say  that  he  would  never  use  it  again,  outside  of  a  rare  social
gathering, but doubted that he would use it again.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
In January 2020, during Applicant’s personal subject interview, Applicant told the
investigator that he probably would use marijuana again since it was legal and socially
acceptable  in  the  state.  Applicant  further  stated  that  he  socializes  and  works  with
people  involved  in  the  use  of  marijuana  that  is  legal  in  his  state  but  illegal  Federally.
Applicant  listed  a  friend  and  coworker  that  he  uses  marijuana  with  as  one  of  his
references  in  his  2019  security  clearance  application.  Applicant’s  step-father,  who
Applicant visits a few times a year, also uses marijuana.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
Regarding Applicant’s use of hallucinogenic mushrooms in 2018 while holding a
security  clearance,  Applicant  also  told  the  investigator  that  his  friend  and  co-worker
referenced above is the individual who provided him with the mushrooms and they used
them at the coworker’s house.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
In his response to the SOR, Applicant stated that he understands that marijuana
possession  is  a  federal  crime  and  he  has  no  reservations  about  stopping  his  use  of
marijuana as long as he has a security clearance.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
