In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she partially admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.j,
admitting that she owed each debt but denying that she deliberately did not pay them.
She  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.c  and  denied  SOR  ¶¶  2.d-2.f.  Her  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a  logistics  and  inventory  control
technician  from  October  2020  to  April  2021.  She  was  unemployed  from  April  to  June
2021. She was hired by her current employer as a property analyst in March 2022. She
currently is a part-time employee. She has never held a security clearance. (Tr. 5-6)
Applicant’s  current  supervisor  vouched  for  her  performance  as  a  property
levels  of
management  analyst.  Her  supervisor  noted
professionalism,  attention  to  detail,  and  dependability.”  When  the  issue  regarding  her
security clearance arose, her employer retained her as a part-time employee so that she
could  return  to  full-time  employment  if  her  application  for  a  security  clearance  was
granted. (Tr. 5-6; AX B; AX J) With the approval of her employer, Applicant also works
part-time for a non-federal employer. (Tr. 33; AX I.)
that  she  “exhibited  high
Applicant has some college credits but has not received a degree. She married in
December 2013, divorced in May 2016, married in May 2017, and separated in October
2020. (Tr. 20; AX A) She has two children, ages 6 and 7.
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Army from November 2012 to February
2016  and  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.  She  has  a  90%
service-connected disability based on post-traumatic stress disorder and a work-related
concussion. (Tr. 29-30) In her SCA, she characterized the basis for her discharge as “left
by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct” and she identified
the allegations as a “pattern of misconduct.” (GX 1 at 17)
The  SOR  alleges  nine  delinquent  debts  that  are  reflected  in  credit  reports  from
November 2020 (GX 5), July 2021 (GX 6), January 2022 (GX 7), and May 2023 (GX 8).
The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below.
SOR ¶  1.a: car loan charged off for $13,643.  In  2013, Applicant purchased  a  car
from  another soldier, but she  did  not enter her  name  on  the  title  as the  purchaser  or file it
with  the  local department of motor vehicles. She  borrowed  money from  her credit union
to  finance  the  purchase. While  she  was training  in a  remote  area, she  allowed  another
soldier to use the car. The other soldier entered his own name on the title, registered  the
car  in his name,  and  obtained  a  loan  from  a  title-loan  company.  When  he  failed  to  make
the payments, the car was repossessed by the title-loan company.  (Tr. 34-40)  On March
29, 2023, the  credit union  agreed  to  settle  Applicant’s  debt for $4,457.46, to  be  paid  by
36  monthly payments of $151.60  each. (AX  C)  The  first payment was due  on  May 17,
2023. (Tr. 41) As of the date the record closed, Applicant had not made  any payments.
SOR ¶  1.b: credit union account  charged off for $2,236.  Applicant negotiated
an agreement to settle this account for $894.65, to be paid in 36 monthly installments of
$24.85. (AX D) On May 18, 2023, she made a payment of $705.50, to be applied to this
account as well as the accounts alleged below in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d. (AX H)
SOR ¶  1.c: credit union account  charged off for $1,432. Applicant negotiated
an  agreement  to  settle  this account  for $573.12, to  be  paid in  36  monthly  installments of
$15.92. (AX  E) This debt was included  in the  lump-sum  payment for the  debt in  SOR ¶
1.b.  The  debt has been resolved. (AX N)
SOR ¶  1.d: credit union account  charged off for $1,389.  Applicant negotiated
an  agreement  to  settle  this account  for $555.68, to  be  paid in  36  monthly  installments of
$15.44.  (AX  F)  This  debt  was included  in the  lump-sum  payment  for the  debt in  SOR ¶
1.b. The  debt has been resolved. (AX O)
SOR  ¶   1.e:   educational  loan   placed  for  collection   of   $613.   This  debt  was
incurred when Applicant dropped out of a class. She testified that she settled this debt,
but she provided no documentation to support her testimony. (Tr. 43-44)
SOR ¶  1.f,  1.g,  and  1.h: collection account  for $2,176; jewelry  store  account
charged off for $3,742;  and  furniture  store  account  charged off for $3,742.  Applicant
has not contacted these creditors or made any payments on these debts. (Tr. 46)
SOR ¶  1.i: credit-card  charged off for $1,407. The creditor cancelled this debt in
December  2017  and  issued  an  IRS  Form  1099-C  documenting  the  transaction.  It  is
resolved. (AX G)
SOR  ¶   1.j:   telecommunications  account   placed   for  collection  of   $900.
Applicant  testified  that  she  had  resolved  this  debt  and  reestablished  service  with  this
credit. (Tr. 46-47) She did not submit any documentation to support her testimony.
Applicant  has  been  consulting  with  a  financial  advisor  from  a  military  service
agency since 2018. (Tr. 32) She began working at a second job in May 2023, earning
$14.00  per  hour.  (AX  I.)  She  recently  moved  from  a  townhouse  to  a  two-bedroom
apartment to reduce her living expenses. (Tr. 47)
In April 2012, Applicant was charged with possession of marijuana and trespassing
on posted property. She was a senior in high school at the time. She testified that she
was with a group of girls, one of the girls had marijuana in a bag, and she was the only
one  who  was  arrested  because  she  was  the  only  one  who  was  18  years  old.  She
performed eight hours of community service, and the charges were disposed of by nolle
prosequi. (GX 3; Tr. 49-50) This incident is alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a.
When Applicant submitted her SCA, she disclosed that she was discharged from
the Army because of a pattern of misconduct. (GX 1 at 19) When she was interviewed by
a security investigator, she acknowledged that she received nonjudicial punishment and
was reduced in rank because of multiple incidents of being late for duty and disobeying
orders.  (GX  2  at  6)  At  the  hearing,  she  admitted  receiving  nonjudicial  punishment  for
being late for duty, but she could not remember the details. (Tr. 51) The record does not
contain  any  documentation  of  the  action  other than  Appellant’s  disclosure  in her SCA.
The disciplinary action is alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b.
SOR ¶ 2.c comingles several incidents that resulted in Applicant’s discharge from
the Army. A security investigator questioned Applicant about several incidents recited in
a memorandum recommending that she be discharged. (GX 2) The memorandum was
not  included  in  the  record,  but  the  investigator’s  questioning  reflects  the  following
incidents:
First,  Applicant  was  punished  by  her  company  commander  for  multiple  military
violations, such as being late for duty, missing formations, and wearing improper insignia
on her uniform.
Second, Applicant was accused of impersonating a noncommisioned officer. She
was  talking  with  a  loan  officer  about  an  overdue  payment,  and  she  gave  her  platoon
sergeant’s  name  as  a  person  who  could  verify  that  she  was  late  making  the  payment
because she was sick. When the loan officer called again, she thought she was talking to
the  platoon  sergeant.  No  disciplinary  action  was  imposed  for  this  incident,  but  it  was
included in the list of incidents recited as a basis for discharging Applicant from the Army.
Third, Applicant was involved in the use of a rental car that resulted in her being
charged  with  wrongful  appropriation  of  the  car  and  making  a  false  official  statement.
According to the law enforcement report, a former sergeant had rented a vehicle in May
2015, and he left the vehicle with Applicant when he was separated from the Army. The
risk  manager  for  the  car  rental  agency  told  law  enforcement  authorities  that  she  had
contacted Applicant  several times  and that Applicant had agreed to  return the  vehicle.
The rental agency they reported the vehicle as stolen when it was not returned. Applicant
claimed  that  she  gave  the  former  sergeant  money  to  extend  the  rental  period,  but  he
denied receiving any money from her. She knew that the return of the vehicle was overdue
by about five weeks, but she denied being contacted by the rental agency. She told the
law enforcement investigators that her cellphone was not working and that she did not
receive  any  email  from  the  rental  agency.  (GX  4)  Applicant  received  nonjudicial
punishment from her battalion commander for wrongful appropriation of the vehicle. Her
battalion  commander  determined  that  her  denial  that  she  was  contacted  by  the  rental
agency was not a false official statement. (GX 2 at 7, 17; Tr. 58)
SOR  ¶¶  2.d,  2.e,  and  2.f  allege  that  Applicant  deliberately  falsified  her  SCA  by
failing to disclose the incidents in SOR ¶ 2.a and 2.c  and that she deliberately omitted
material facts during her interview with a security investigator in December 2020, prior to
being confronted with the evidence. Applicant testified that she did not disclose the April
2012 marijuana incident alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a because she had been told that it would be
expunged. She denied intentionally falsifying her SCA or intentionally failing to disclose
information to the security investigator, but she admitted that she was careless when she
did not fully disclose the basis of her discharge from the Army. (Tr. 64-65.)
