In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a  -1.d with no further explanations.
His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  26  years  old.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  He
attended  college  from  2014  through  2016,  but  did  not  obtain  a  degree.  He  has  been
with his current employer as an alarm respondent since June 2017. (Tr. 24; GX 1)
All   four   of   the   SOR  allegations,   ¶¶   1.a   ($7,507),  1.b   ($7,473),  1.c  ($4,149)  and
1.d   ($4,131),   concern   Applicant’s  delinquent  federal  student  loans.  In   addition   to
Applicant’s admissions, the  debts are listed  in  collection  status in his March 2020  credit
report. (GX 3)
Applicant  did  not  disclose  any  delinquent  accounts  in  his  February  2020  SCA.
However,  during  his April  2020  background  interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  the
student  loans  were  related  to  tuition  from  his  time  in  college.  He  claimed  that  he  had
assumed  the  loans  had  been  closed  after  leaving  college  because  he  never  received
any communication from the college or the Department of Education (DOE). He further
claimed  that  the  student  loans  did  not  appear  on  his  credit  report  and  that  he  was
“unaware” they were in collection. He assured the investigator he would take immediate
steps to contact DOE and request a payment plan.
However, at his hearing, Applicant testified that he never took out student loans
to  finance  his  college  education.  Instead,  he  claimed  that  he  received  a  “full-ride”
scholarship  to  play  football  for  the  college.  In  fall  2014,  he  enrolled  in  classes  and
practiced  with  the  football  team.  Because  of  poor  equipment  and  field  conditions,
Applicant experienced a significant injury and did not play his entire first season. Still, he
continued his studies. (Tr. 18-22)
In   fall   2015,  at  the   start  of  his  second   season,  Applicant  quickly   experienced
another injury and  could not play.  In  spring  2016,  his coach  informed  him  that he  was
released   from   the   team   and   had   lost   his  scholarship.   Applicant  claimed   that  he   went
home   that   summer  and   never  heard   from   the   college   again.   With   the   loss  of  his
scholarship,  Applicant could not afford  to  continue  his studies and   left college. (Tr.  19-
20, 35-37)
During  his  testimony,  Applicant  repeatedly  claimed  that  he  never  applied  for
student loans and that his tuition, room and board were all covered by the scholarship.
However,  he  did  admit  to  meeting  with  financial  counselors  while  at  the  college,
although he could not recall any details of the conversations he had with them. He later
admitted that it was possible he took out student loans, but had no recollection of doing
so. (Tr. 22-23, 27, 65)
Applicant claimed that he first learned about his student loans when he checked
his credit report in 2019, but he did not arrange any payments. Instead, he attempted to
contact the college several times for clarification. He claimed the college had new staff
who told him they had no record of his enrollment. During this time, he did not contact
DOE. (Tr. 29, 53-56)
Even after his interview in April 2020, Applicant never contacted DOE or a credit-
reporting  agency  to  verify  the  validity  of  his  student  loans.  Instead,  he  claimed  he
contacted  a  financial  counselor,  but  could  not  recall  any  details  about  the  person  or
business  he  contacted,  and  he  did  not  engage  in  their  services. He  admitted  that  he
became distracted by other personal matters and overlooked his loans.
Despite  the  uncertainty  regarding  the  origin  of  his  student  loans,  Applicant
admitted  responsibility  for  them.  He testified that he  planned  to  pay  the  loans, but  still
had not contacted DOE. (Tr. 30-32, 56-62)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that, in March 2020, payments
on  federal  student  loans  were  paused  by  presidential  executive  order  as  part  of  the
Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act).  The pause included
several relief measures for eligible loans such as a suspension of loan payments; a 0%
interest rate; and  suspension of collection efforts on  defaulted loans.  More information
about  the  CARES  Act  is  available  at  the  Federal  Student  Aid  (FSA)  website,
https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19.
I  further  note  that,  in  August  2022,  President  Biden  announced  a  plan  for  the
forgiveness  of  various  amounts  of  federal  student  loan  debt.  Litigation  regarding  the
constitutionality  of  this  plan  followed,  and  a  decision  by  the  Supreme  Court  remains
pending  as  of  this  writing.  In  December  2022,  the  DOE  stated  that  the  pause  on  the
payment  of  student
least  June  2023.
https://studentaid.gov/debt-relief-announcement
loans  would  extend
through  at
Applicant  testified  that  his  annual  salary  was  just  under  $40,000.  Even  so,  he
was able to save about $100 per month because he lived with his parents and kept his
expenses  to  a  minimum.  However,  Applicant  also  admitted  that  he  had  not  filed  his
2021 federal and state tax returns because he owed about $400 to the state. He timely
filed  his  2022  tax  returns  and  did  not  owe  any  additional  taxes.  His  unfiled  2021  tax
returns and delinquent tax debt are not alleged in the SOR. (Tr. 39-43, 59, 63)
Applicant stated he had no academic issues while attending college and has had
no disciplinary issues with his employer. He acknowledged that he had been financially
irresponsible over the past couple of years  by not resolving his student loans, but that
the hearing was a “wake-up call” and he promised he would start paying them.
