Applicant is 32 years old, married, with two children ages four and five. (Item 3.)
From September 2009 to May 2013, he went to college in State A, where he earned his
bachelor’s degree. From  November 2013  to  August 2019, he  held a  number of jobs in
State A. From September 2019 to June 2021, he lived in State B, where he earned his
graduate degree. He then returned to State A in July 2021, where he currently lives. His
clearance sponsor is a federal contractor. This is his first security clearance application.
(Items 3 and 4.)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  purchased  and  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency from March 2011 to about June 2021.  (Item 1.) Applicant admitted the SOR
allegations.  (Item  2.)  In  his  SCA,  he  elaborated  on  his  marijuana  use.  He  “smoked
marijuana  in  college…[took]  edibles  rarely  over  the  last  couple  years…[maybe]  once
every couple weeks.” Marijuana is currently legal in State B. If marijuana is legal in State
A, he “may use it in the future in a social setting.” (Item 3.)
In his July 27, 2022 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), Applicant further explained
his marijuana use and his intentions for future use. He confirmed the approximate dates
of  his  past  marijuana  use.  His  statements  in  the  PSI  about  future  use,  however,  are
inconsistent.  On the one hand, he said he stopped using marijuana in July 2021, when
he returned to State A, where marijuana is illegal. On the other hand, he said he intends
to use marijuana in the future because it is legal in State A and State B. In his response
to  an  interrogatory,  he  said  his  intent  is  to  use  “occasionally  if  legal  in  location.”  In
response to the query “do you intend to use marijuana . . . in the future,” he checked the
answer “No.” (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel  . . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under Adjudicative Guideline (AG) H, suitability of an applicant may be questioned
or put into doubt because drug use can both impair judgment and raise questions about
a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG ¶ 24 sets
forth the concern in more detail below:
The  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescription and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances
that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may
lead  to  physical  or  psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises
questions about a person's ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,
and regulations. Controlled substance means any "controlled substance" as
defined in 21 U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in
this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance.
Applicant  admitted  that  he  purchased  and  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency from March 2011 to June 2021.  Facts admitted by an applicant in an
answer to an SOR or in an interview require no further proof from the Government.
ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any admissions [applicant]
made  to  the  SOR  allegations  .  .  .  relieve  Department  Counsel  of  its  burden  of
proof”);  ISCR  Case  No.  94-0569  at  4  and  n.1  (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n
applicant’s admissions, whether testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis
for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Possession  of  marijuana  is  regulated  by  the  federal  government  under  the
Controlled  Substances  Act.  21  U.S.C.  §  811  et  seq.  The  knowing  or  intentional
possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and punishable by imprisonment,
a  fine or both. 21 U.S.C.  § 844.  In an October 25, 2014 memorandum, the Director of
National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is a security concern. James R.
Clapper,  Director  of  National  Intelligence,  Memorandum:  Adherence  to  Federal  Laws
Prohibiting
also
(October
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml. LSD and cocaine are Schedule I and Schedule II
controlled substances, respectively, under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. §
811 et seq. See http://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug-scheduling.
Marijuana
2014).
See
Use
25,
On   December  21,  2021,   the   Director  of   National  Intelligence   signed   the
memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for
Agencies  Conducting   Adjudications  of  Persons  Proposed   for  Eligibility  for  Access  to
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes  that  federal
law  remains   unchanged   with   respect   to   the   illegal  use,  possession,  production,  and
distribution  of marijuana. Individuals who  hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited   by  law  from   using   controlled   substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but
not determinative,  to  adjudications of eligibility.  Agencies  are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person   concept”  stated   under  SEAD  4,  to   determine   whether  the   applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
In this case, disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c) apply. Applicant is under
the misapprehension that state law governs the legality of marijuana purchase and use.
That is incorrect. Marijuana purchase and use continue to raise national security concerns
under federal law that must be mitigated. His conflicting statements in his PSI sow doubts
about his intention to use marijuana in the future.
Only mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(a) potentially applies here. That condition states:
“[T]he  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or  happened  under  such
circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast doubt on the individual’s current
reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment.” It is true that Applicant’s use of marijuana
began quite some time ago, in March 2011 while he was in college. His use, however,
continued with varying frequency until June 2021,  just a month after he completed  his
SCA. A two-year period of abstinence, especially in light of his equivocal future intent, is
insufficient to allay national security concerns. On these facts, mitigating condition AG ¶
26(a) does not apply.
In reaching this conclusion, I have also carefully considered the other mitigating
conditions set forth in AG ¶¶ 26(b) through (d). On their face, those mitigating conditions
do not apply in this case. I find against Applicant on SOR ¶ 1.
The record raises doubts about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment, and
ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I weighed the evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person concept. AG
¶¶ 2(d)(1) through (9) and 2(f)(1) through (6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has
not met his ultimate burden of  persuasion  to  show that  it  is clearly  consistent  with  the
national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required  by section  E3.1.25  of Enclosure  3  of the  Directive,  I make  the  following
formal findings on the  SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In  light of the record as  a whole, it is not clearly  consistent with the  interests of
national security to grant Applicant access to classified information. Clearance is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
