Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  worked  as  a
contractor  for  his  current  employer  from  September  2019  until  he  was  hired  by  the
company as an employee in June 2020. He is applying for a security clearance for the
first time. He attended college for a period, but he did not earn a degree. He has never
married, and he has no children. (Item 5)
Applicant  used  a  variety  of  illegal  drugs  from  about  2008  through  November
2022.  He  was  cited  or  charged  in  about  March  2011  with  possession  of  drug
paraphernalia;  in about  April 2011  with  possession of  toxic  chemicals  (inhalants, etc.);
and in May 2012 with possession of marijuana. He paid fines for the offenses. (Items 4,
5)
Applicant reported on a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in
September  2021  that  he  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  twice  in  his  life  (2011  and
2017),  both  times  in  safe  environments  in  nature  on  hiking  or  camping  trips  for
“medical/spiritual  purposes.”  He  wrote  that  he  intended  to  use  the  drug  in  the  future,
“[m]ushrooms  have  mental  health  benefits  when  used
with
medicinally/spiritually  in  nature  and  I  enjoy  their  benefits.  I  only  plan  to  use  this
substance in safe settings and on rare occasions.” (Item 5)
the  comment,
Applicant  lives  in  a  state  where  recreational  marijuana  possession  and  use  do
not violate state law. He  reported his marijuana use on the same SF 86 in September
2021. He wrote that he intended to use marijuana in the future, with the comment, “I am
not under the belief that occasional marijuana use is terribly harmful to mental health or
evil.” (Item 5)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  November  2021.
He  openly  discussed  his  illegal  drug  use.  He  stated  that  he  smoked  marijuana  about
once every other week, and he purchased it about every two months, most recently in
October 2021. He stated that he knew marijuana possession violated federal law, but he
disagreed  with  the  law  and  intended  to  continue  to  use  marijuana.  He  also  disagreed
that  possession  of  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  should  be  unlawful;  there  was  research
showing the benefits of the drug; and he did not intend to give up the use of  the drug.
(Item 6)
Applicant responded to  interrogatories on December 21, 2022.  He reported that
he  continued  to  purchase  and  use  marijuana,  with  November  25,  2022,  as  the  most
recent time he purchased and used marijuana. He stated that he did not intend to use
illegal drugs in the future if granted a security clearance. He added, “I would rather quit
using any illegal substances than be denied a security clearance. I am far from addicted
and will uphold the federal laws while maintaining a security clearance.” (Item 6)
On January 20, 2023, Applicant wrote in his response to the SOR:
While  marijuana  is  legal  in  my  state,  I  admit  I  have  indulged  responsibly
several  times  throughout  the  years  on  holidays  or  long  weekends.  I
believe  that  it  should  be  made  legal  federally  as  it  is  not  an  extremely
harmful  substance.  However,  to  achieve  a  security  clearance,  I  have
decided to stop using marijuana and all federally illegal substances. I can
currently pass a drug test and have been sober since the turn of the year.
I understand that marijuana and psychedelic mushrooms remain federally
illegal.  And  I  intend  to  follow  these,  and  all  other  laws  set  out  by  the
government. I am psychologically and physically sound and am willing to
comply with all laws, rules, and regulations.
