Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  married  man  with  four  stepchildren.  After  graduating
from high school in 2009, he enlisted in the U.S. Army, where he served through 2018.
(Tr. 19) He was honorably discharged. (Tr. 19; AE N) Since 2018, he has been working
in the field of communications technology. (GE 1 at 13; Tr. 44-45)
In 2016, Applicant cosigned an apartment lease with a friend and her family. He
did  so  because  they  were  unable  to  qualify  for  a  lease  on  their  own.  (Tr.  24)  Neither
Applicant’s friend nor her husband was working at the time. Applicant agreed to help them
make  their  rental  payments.  The  agreement  worked  for  a  month  before  his  friends
stopped making  their share  of  the  payments.  (Tr. 24) Applicant considered  ending the
lease early and giving the landlord two months’ rent payments, required under the terms
of the lease for early termination. However, he decided to stay with the lease through the
end of the one-year term because he did not want to “put  out” his friends’ children, having
himself  experienced  a  bout  of  homelessness  as  a  child  when  his  parents’  house  was
foreclosed . (Tr. 26; Tr. 38) Subsequently, Applicant continued paying  his friends’ rent.
Each  successive  month,  however,  he  began  incurring  $500  of  debt  that  he  could  not
afford  to  pay  off.  (Tr.  26)  By  the  end  of  the  term  of  the  lease,  Applicant’s  friends  had
moved from the apartment. By then, Applicant’s bills had become delinquent. (Tr. 26-28)
Subparagraph  1.a  of  the  SOR  is  a  deficiency  remaining  from  a  repossessed
vehicle,  totaling  approximately  $25,000.  (Answer  at  1)  In  November  2022,  Applicant
entered into a payment arrangement with the creditor, in which he agreed to pay $200
per month to satisfy the debt. (AE A) He has been in compliance with the agreement since
then. (AEs A, P; Tr. 42) In February 2023, Applicant filed his federal and state income tax
returns with the help of an accounting firm. (AE C) Per a firm representative, Applicant
will  receive  federal  and  state  refunds  totaling  $6,184.  (AE  C)  Once  Applicant  receives
these refunds, he intends to apply the money to the automobile deficiency. (Tr. 27)
Subparagraph 1.b of the SOR, totaling $302, is a delinquent balance remaining on
an insurance policy after Applicant terminated  it. When Applicant switched policies, he
was unaware that he still owed a payment. (Answer at 2) Upon becoming aware of the
charge in January 2022, Applicant paid the balance. (AE E)
Subparagraph  1.c  of  the  SOR,  totaling  $2,163,  is  a  delinquent  phone  bill.
Applicant’s  roommates  incurred about  $900 of  this  debt. (Tr.  28)  In  November  2022,
Applicant contacted the creditor and negotiated a reduced payoff balance of $1,406. (AE
F) In January 2023, he paid the negotiated balance in full. (AE G)
Applicant earns $70,000 per year. (Tr. 46) He maintains a budget and has $3,900
of monthly discretionary income. (Tr. 47)
In 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI).
(GE 9) He was convicted and sentenced to 12 months’ probation. (GE 9 at 2) As part of
the  terms  of  probation,  he  had  to  attend  alcohol  education  classes,  participate  in
community service, obtain a substance abuse assessment, and abstain from alcohol for
one year. (Tr. 50; AE J ) Applicant complied with the probation terms as ordered. (AE I)
A  psychologist  evaluated  him  and  concluded  he  did  not  have  an  alcohol  consumption
problem. (AE J)
In 2019, after a night of heavy drinking with friends, Applicant blacked out. Six days
later, a female friend, with whom he was socializing on the night he blacked out, accused
him of shoving her to the ground and choking her. These accusations led to Applicant’s
arrest for assault. Applicant denies this behavior, but does not remember anything from
that night. Later, during mediation, the woman agreed to drop the charges if Applicant
completed  anger  management.  Applicant  completed  anger  management  classes,  as
requested, and she dropped the charges. (Tr. 54) The record is inconclusive as to whether
Applicant assaulted the friend, as alleged.
Applicant has not drunk alcohol to the point of intoxication since the 2019 episode
and since October 2021 has abstained from alcohol entirely. (Tr. 33) He does not drink
alcohol because he believes that alcohol consumption could lead to alcohol abuse, which
could potentially jeopardize the safety, welfare, and financial security of his family. (Tr.
34)
Applicant  is  highly  respected  by  his  peers.  Per  a  fellow  veteran  and  former
coworker,  Applicant  is  an  open,  honest,  and  dedicated  man  who  has  grown  over  the
years.  (AE O) A friend describes him as “one of the best individuals [he has] ever known.”
(AE O at 2) Per the civilian executive officer for the agency Applicant supports, he has a
strong work ethic, a tremendous thirst for knowledge, and is a valued member of the team.
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive
Branch  has  in  regulating  access  to  information  pertaining  to  national  security,
