Applicant,   44,   immigrated   to   the   United   States   through   the   Diversity  Visa
Program   in   2009.   He  served  on   active   duty in  the   U.S. Army from   2011   to   2014,   as  a
combat  engineer. Through  his service  in  the  Army, he  was  able  to  become  a naturalized
U.S. citizen  in  July 2011. His wife  of 13  years  immigrated  to  the  United  States  with  their
oldest   child   in   2012.  They  are   both   naturalized   U.S.  citizens.   His   youngest  child   is  a
U.S. citizen  by birth. (Tr.2 at 14-15; GE 1-2)
Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  since  April
2022 as an engineer. He earned a bachelor’s  and master’s degree before immigrating
to  the  United  States  and  earned  a  second  master’s  degree  at  a  prestigious  U.S.
university  in  2015.  He  has  been  employed  by  federal  contracting  companies  since  at
least  September  2015.  He  was  granted  access  to  classified  information  during  his
military service. He has no history of security violations.
Applicant completed his most recent security clearance application in September
2019.  He  disclosed  two  involuntary  hospitalizations  for  mental  health  emergencies  in
October  2018  and  February  2019.  He  also  disclosed  a  diagnosis  for  schizoaffective
disorder.  The  investigation  discovered  two  additional  hospitalizations  in  August  2019
and December 2020. The SOR alleges the four hospitalizations (SOR ¶ 1.a, 1.b, .c, 1.d)
as well as his failure to follow his treatment plan in February 2019 (SOR ¶ 1.b) and July
2019 (SOR ¶ 1.c). The SOR also alleged that a psychological evaluation ordered by the
DOD  CAF  indicated  that  Applicant  has  a  condition  that  could  negatively  impact  his
judgment  and   ability  to   protect   classified   information   and   described   his  prognosis  as
“fair at best.”   (SOR ¶ 1.e)  (Tr.2 at 15-16; GE  1-2)
Applicant  first  began  experiencing  mental  health  issues  in  October  2018.
Concerned  about  his  behavior  after  days  of  sleeplessness  and  erratic  behavior,
Applicant’s wife called the police, who transported him to the emergency department of
a local hospital. He was involuntarily admitted to the hospital’s psychiatric unit. He was
diagnosed  with  schizoaffective  disorder,  bipolar  mood  disorder,  and  sleep  deprivation.
After  he  was  stabilized  with  medication,  Applicant  was  released  to  outpatient  care.  In
November 2018, he began seeing a psychiatric nurse practitioner (PNP). In response to
Applicant’s  complaints  about  the  side  effects  of  the  treatment  regimen  established
during  his  hospitalization,  the  PNP  started  Applicant  on  a  new  treatment  plan  with
different  medications.  Over  the  next  year,  the  PNP  changed  and  adjusted  Applicant’s
medications to address the negative side effects of the medications. In February 2019,
Applicant  decided  that  he  felt  better  and  stopped  taking  the  medications  which
continued to have negative side effects. (Tr.2 at 16-18; GE 2-3)
Later  that  month,  Applicant’s  symptoms  returned.  He  could  not  sleep.  He  was
agitated. He was responding to internal stimuli and hearing noises. Applicant’s behavior
caused  his  wife  to  call  the  police,  who  again  transported  him  to  a  local  emergency
department. He was involuntarily admitted to the psychiatric ward for six days. After his
discharge, he resumed treatment with his PNP. (GE 2-3)
involuntarily  hospitalized  again
Applicant  followed  his  treatment  plan  for  five  months.  He  stopped  taking  his
medications  again  in  July  2019,  while  on  a  trip  to  his  home  country.  His  symptoms
returned.  After he  returned  to  the  United  States,  his symptoms  became acute, and he
was
in  August  2019.  He  was  diagnosed  with
schizoaffective disorder, bipolar disorder, and  catatonia. He was again released to the
outpatient care of the PNP until 2020, when Applicant transferred his care to a different
in  psychiatric  mental  health
provider,  a  certified  registered  nurse  practitioner
(CRNP/PMH). (Tr.2 at 18-20; GE 2-3)
From September 2019 to November 2020, Applicant remained compliant with his
treatment  plan  with  the  CRNP/PMH.  However,  in  November  2020,  while  on  the
medications, Applicant began experiencing symptoms. His wife took him to the hospital
for immediate treatment but was turned away because of Covid-19 protocols in place at
the  hospital  and  because  his  symptoms  were  not  acute.  Upon  returning  home,
Applicant’s  wife  contacted  the  CRNP/PMH,  who  adjusted  Applicant’s  medication.
Despite the adjustments, Applicant continued to experience symptoms, becoming more
disoriented and erratic. In December 2020, a disoriented Applicant wandered out of his
home.  His  wife  filed  a  missing  person  report  with  the  police,  who  found  Applicant  and
transported him to the hospital where he was involuntarily admitted for psychiatric care.
The  CRNP/PMH  adjusted  Applicant’s  medication  in  response  to  the  hospitalization.
(Tr.2 at 33-34; GE 2)
Applicant  reported  each  hospitalization  to  his  facility  security  officer.  After  each
hospitalization,  he  was  able  to  return  to  work  without  incident.  He  has  never
experienced  a  mental  health  emergency  at  work,  nor  has  he  committed  any  security
violation  because  of  his  mental  health  diagnosis.  There  is  nothing  in  the  record  to
suggest  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  any  behavior  in  the  workplace  that  raised
questions with his employers about his judgement or reliability. (Tr. 2 at 23)
In  June  2020,  the  DOD  CAF  referred  Applicant  for  a  psychological  evaluation
from a licensed psychologist. The psychologist conducted the evaluation in March 2021,
which  consisted  of  a  clinical  interview  and  a  personality  assessment  inventory.  The
psychologist  also  reviewed  the  September  2019  security  clearance  application,
interviews  Applicant  gave  to  background  investigators  in  2019  and  2020,  as  well  as
medical  records
the  October  2018,  August  2019,  and  February  2019
hospitalizations. The hospitalization records are not in the record. (GE 3)
from
The psychologist concluded:
Like   many   people  when   first  diagnosed   with   a   serious   mental  health
condition,   [Applicant]   has  been   given   a   number   of   psychiatric   labels   and
been  tried  on  a  range  of  medications  in an  effort to  find  the  right  balance
between   symptom   reduction   and   side   effects.  Also,   like   those   coming   to
terms  with   and   learning   about  a   chronic  mental  health   condition,
[Applicant]   stopped   medications  completely   two   times   resulting   in   a   [sic]
return  of  symptoms  and   additional  hospitalization.   This  is   common   for
people  in   the   early  years  of  a   serious   mental  health   diagnosis  as  they
learn  the   diagnoses  are  real   and   treatment  is  needed.  He   has  now
developed  the  opinion  that he  needs the  medications  and  has resolved  to
adhere  to   his  provider’s  recommendation.  However,  he   complains   about
many   immediate,   and   potentially  long   term,   side   effects  of  his  multiple
medications. These  side  effects  are  not inconsequential. The  medications
seem   to   have   muted   his  affect,  slowed   his  processing   speed,  and
negatively impacted  his frontal lobe  functioning  (i.e., attention  control and
problem   solving.)  All   these   are   cognitive   skills  needed   to   successfully
safeguard   information   (and   to   perform   his  other  job   duties.).  His
medication   also  places   him   in   a   state   of  general   interpersonal  blankness
and  contextual  stupor so  he  will  certainly appear odd  to  other  people. This
could   impact   his   ability  to   communicate   with   others,   his   judgments   when
he  makes  an  error or need  help,  and  his  vulnerability  to  those  who  might
try to exploit him. (GE  3)
The evaluating psychologist diagnosed Applicant with unspecified schizophrenia
spectrum  disorder,  multiple  episodes,  in  partial  remission  and  unspecified  anxiety
disorder.  The  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant’s  condition  will  require  ongoing,
consistent  lifelong  treatment  to  maintain  his  stability.  He  acknowledges  that  the
Applicant  is  stable  on  his  current  pharmaceutical  regimen,  but  that  this  could  change
based  on  changes  in  Applicant’s  physiology,  if  he  stops  taking  his  medication,  or
experiences a significant increase in stress. These changes, the psychologist explained,
could  lead  to  the  return  of  Applicant’s  symptoms,  including  perceptual  disturbances  or
disordered  thinking.  The psychologist described  Applicant’s prognosis as “fair  at best.”
(GE 3)
Ultimately  the  psychologist  concluded  that  “there  is  a  considerable  risk
[Applicant’s]  symptoms  will  resurface  at  some  point  in  the  future.  Thus,  his  condition
could negatively impact his judgment and reliability thereby diminishing  his capacity to
safeguard national security information.” (GE 3)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant’s  affect  was  flat.  He  spoke  slowly and  quietly but  was
able to clearly communicate his personal history. He also discussed the issues he has
experienced with his mental health since 2018. When he stopped taking his medication
in  February  2019  and  July  2019,  he  really  did  not  understand  that  his  condition  was
something  that  would  require  lifelong  treatment  and  that  he  could  not  stop  taking  the
medication  when  he  felt  better.  He  stated  he  began  to  understand  the  nature  of  his
illness and lifetime treatment needs after his third hospitalization. He also explained that
finding the right balance of medication was a process, requiring frequent medical visits
and  adjustment  of  medications.  The  medical  notes  in  the  record  show  that  Applicant
routinely saw his treating CRNP/PMH between February 2020 and June 2021, when he
responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  The  notes  show  him  reporting  to  his  medical
provider  when  he  felt  his  medications  were  not  working  properly  or  causing  him
intolerable side effects. (Tr. 2 at 18; GE 2)
Applicant  has  complied  with  his  treatment  plans,  without  interruption  since
September 2019. He believes his current treatment plan is working well. Since his last
major  medication  adjustment  after  his  December  2020  hospitalization,  he  has  not
experienced any negative side effects  or the return of his symptoms. Since November
2021, he has paired his pharmaceutical treatment with therapy with a licensed certified
social worker – clinical (LCSW-C) through the Department of Veterans Affairs. Applicant
has  quarterly  visits  with  each  of  his  providers.  Both  his  current  CRNP/PMH  and
therapist  consider  him  stable  and  able  to  work  without  limitation  or  restriction.  (Tr.2  at
21, 25-27; AE A-B)
Applicant’s  wife  also  testified  at  the  hearing.  She  explained  her  learning  curve
associated  with  Applicant’s  illness.  Between  2018  and  2020,  she  explained  that  the
medicines left Applicant unable to function. On his current treatment plan, Applicant has
not  complained  of  any  side  effects.  She  is  the  one  who  is  first  to  notice  when  he  is
deteriorating,  which  usually  begins  with  sleep  deprivation,  and  seeks  medical
intervention  on  his  behalf.  She  no  longer  waits  until  the  circumstances  require
emergency intervention, contacting his medical providers directly when he complains of
side  effects.  She  also  discussed  her  observations  of  Applicant’s  adjustments  to  his
diagnosis and treatment. Initially, she had to dispense Applicant’s medications to him to
ensure that he took them. While she still portions the medication into a pill box, he takes
his medication on his own without prompting or supervision from her. He often reminds
her to refill the pill box. Applicant has also progressed to the point where she no longer
must attend  his medical  appointments with him.  For the  last  three years, he has been
able  to  go  to  his medical  appointments  on  his  own.  The  couple  has  also  developed  a
plan   to   handle  any  future  emergencies,  in   which   she   calls  Applicant’s  employer  to
inform  them  of  his inability to work. (Tr.2 at 22, 30-39)
