Applicant  is  a  23-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  April  2021.  He  earned  a  commercial  diving  certificate  in  March  2021.
There is no other evidence of his education in the record. He has never married and has
no children. (Items 3, 8)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  failing  to  abide  by  established  laws,  rules,  and
regulations. In April 2019,  police  charged him  with a misdemeanor offense of  reckless
driving/bad brakes after he wrecked his vehicle. After he paid court costs and fines, the
court dismissed these charges after ordering a deferred disposition. In September 2020,
police  charged  him  with  speeding  79  miles  per  hour  (mph)  in  a  60  mph  zone.  He
pleaded guilty  and  paid  a  fine  before his court  date.  He  claimed  that  his speedometer
was defective. In May 2021, police charged him with reckless driving for driving 82 mph
in a 60 mph zone. The court entered a deferred disposition on these charges. However,
it  later  entered  a  show  cause  order  against  him  for  a  probation  violation  because  he
failed to check in with his community service supervisor. Ultimately, the court dismissed
the show cause order and he pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of defective equipment.
He  claimed  that he completed all community service  and  driving  improvement  classes
related to these charges. (Items 2, 9, 10)
In  about  April  2021,  Applicant  began  dating  a  woman  (girlfriend).  After  several
months,  he  and  his  girlfriend  began  having  problems  with  their  relationship.  In  June
2021, they had an argument and he grabbed her by her hair and attempted to pull her
into his car. In September 2021, he attempted to strangle her. His girlfriend did not file
criminal charges at the time these events occurred. (Items 2, 4-7, 9)
In  late  December  2021,  Applicant  was  visiting  his  girlfriend  from  out  of  town
around  Christmastime.  At  some  point  during  his  visit,  they  began  arguing.  During  the
argument,  he  attempted  to  strangle  her  and  threatened  to  “slump”  her  and  her  family.
Given the context, I find that he meant that he would physically harm her and her family.
On  December  24,  2021,  his  girlfriend  went  to  the  local  magistrate’s  office  and  had  a
protective  order  (PO)  issued  against  him.  The  PO  prohibited  him  from  having  contact
with his girlfriend. While she was applying for the PO, he harassed her by calling her on
her cell phone numerous times. (Items 2, 4, 6)
Early on December 25, 2021, when police attempted to serve Applicant with the
PO,  he  evaded  their  efforts  and  was  verbally  abusive  towards  them  over  the  phone.
Police  eventually  found  him  “hunkered  down  in  the  driver’s  seat”  of  his  vehicle,  which
was across the street from his girlfriend’s residence. They asked him to exit his vehicle,
but  he  refused,  so  they  physically  escorted  him.  They  served  him  with  the  PO  and
arrested  him.  Police  charged  him  with  stalking  and  obstruction  of  justice.  Later  that
morning, he was released on bond and admonished that he must abide by the terms of
the PO. Instead, in direct violation of the PO, on December 26, 2021, he went over to
his  girlfriend’s  parent’s  house  where  she  resided.  He  claimed  that  she  let  him  in  the
house. He also contacted her repeatedly on her cell phone and met her in the parking
lot of a restaurant. He claimed that he was trying to get his wallet back that he had left
at  her  house.  Regardless,  once  she  returned  his  wallet  in  the  parking  lot,  he  reached
into her car and grabbed her arm. After this incident, she drove to the police department
to file criminal charges against him. Uncowed, he followed her in his vehicle at least part
of the way to the police station. (Items 2, 4, 6-9)
That  same  day,  police  arrested  Applicant  again  and  charged  him  with  violating
the  PO,  stalking,  and  assault  and  battery.  The  next  day,  his  girlfriend  filed  a  criminal
complaint  against  him  for  grabbing  her  by  the  hair  in  June  2021  and  strangling  her  in
September 2021. On December 28, 2021, he was arrested for the third time in four days
and charged with committing assault and battery in September 2021. Courts ultimately
found him guilty of two violations of the PO. He was sentenced to six months in jail with
five  months  and  29  days  suspended.  The  court  either  dismissed  or  entered  orders  of
nolle  prosequi  on  the  remaining  charges.  The  court  also  entered  additional  protective
orders  that  prohibited  Applicant  from  having  contact  with  his  girlfriend  until  as  late  as
February 2024. On December 28, 2022, because of his criminal charges, he was barred
for  30  days  from  the  military  base  where  he  worked.  All  his  aforementioned  criminal
behavior is corroborated by police reports and court records. (Items 2, 4-10)
Applicant was required to divulge the crimes that resulted in his December 2021
arrests  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  he  submitted  in
January 2022 (six days after his last arrest). He failed to do so. While it was not alleged
in the SOR, he did not volunteer these arrests to the DOD investigator during his August
2022 security interview. Instead, he was evasive about his criminal conduct. When the
investigator  asked  Applicant  about  these  arrests,  he  declined  to  elaborate  on  them,
merely  claiming  that  he  and  his  girlfriend  were  going  through  “stuff”  and  “relationship
things.”  Applicant failed to elaborate on his underlying conduct related to these arrests
until the DOD investigator asked him multiple times and confronted him with his arrests.
He has denied stalking  or physically harming his girlfriend. He also  denied threatening
to harm his girlfriend and  her family. He has not undergone any behavioral counseling
or treatment. He claimed he did not divulge his criminal charges on the SF 86 because
he  did  not  read  the  questions  carefully,  and  he  thought  he  did  not  need  to  disclose
charges for which he was awaiting court dates. (Items 2-9)
A credit report reflects that Applicant’s federal student loan account was charged
off by August 2022. The Government listed this account in SOR ¶ 2.a. An August 2022
credit  report  reflected  a  last  payment  date  of  July  2021.  The  credit  reports  reflect  that
the account was past due in the amount of $4,718 with a total loan balance of $44,082.
A  February  2023  credit  report  reflects  that  the  account  is  still  charged  off,  but  that
Applicant  is paying under a partial  payment agreement of  $222 per month.  This credit
report reflects a last payment date of January 2023. However, since about March 2020,
federal  student  loans  repayments  have  been  deferred  under  various  executive  orders
because  of  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  There  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant’s  federal
student  loan  account  was  delinquent  before  the  payments  on  it  were  deferred  by
Presidential executive order. (Items 2, 11, 12)
Any  adverse  information  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  used  for
disqualification  purposes,  however  it  may  be  considered  in  assessing  an  applicant’s
credibility;  in  evaluating  an  applicant’s  evidence  of extenuation, mitigation,  or changed
circumstances;  in  considering  whether  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  successful
rehabilitation; and in applying the whole-person concept. (ISCR Case No. 15-07369 at 3
(App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017)).
