In  Applicant’s  Answer  to  the  SOR,  she  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-f,  consisting  of
$75,496  in  delinquent  student  loans  and  $1,265  consumer  and  medical  debts.  Her
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 35 years old. She has three children with her boyfriend. She earned
her associate's degree in 2008. She has been employed by her sponsor since May 2022.
She held an accounting technician position from December 2016 until she was hired by
her sponsor. (Item 3 at 5, 10, and 20-21.)
Applicant did not list any delinquent debts on her SCA. In her Response she states
she did not have sufficient income to meet her obligations and then be able to apply any
of the excess to her alleged debts. She cites as an example having to replace her car,
which resulted in a higher car payment and a higher insurance rate.
The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b: education loans placed for collection in March 2015 in the
amounts of $45,478 and $30,018. Applicant in her May 2022 security clearance interview
acknowledged  her  student  loans  were  in  default.  She  told  the  investigator  she  never
placed her loans in deferment or applied for forbearance and had never taken action to
repay her loans. (Item 4 at 5 and Item 5 at 2.) She states in her Answer she was young
when she allowed her “student loans to go into default and for the “years since it was in
default [she] didn't think there was much [she] could do.” She offered that she had called
the U.S. Department of Education and with the help of a representative “applied for the
Fresh  Start  Program.”  She  states  she  applied  on  December  1,  2022,  and  that  the
representative said she would receive a letter affirming the transfer.  Her Answer infers
that  she  received  the  letter,  but  no  letter  was  included  in  Answer. The  February  2023
credit report shows her education loans as paid as agreed. (Item 6.)
In  March  2020, as a  result of the  COVID-19  pandemic,  the  President directed  the
DoED  to   provide   the   following   temporary  relief  on   Department  of   Education   (DoED)-
owned   federal  student  loans:  suspension   of  loan   payments,  stopped   collections  on
defaulted loans, and a  0% interest rate. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief,
and  Economic Security Act (CARES  Act) provided  for the  above  relief measures through
September 30, 2020. See  Federal Student Aid (FSA) website, ISCR Case No. 20-02787
at 3  n.1  (App.  Bd. Mar. 2022).  This  student loan  debt  relief  has been  extended  several
times. See https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19;.
SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d: utility accounts placed for collection in the amounts of $684
and $291. The accounts remain delinquent. (Item 5 at 3 and Item 6 at 3.) Applicant stated
in her Answer she had  an agreement with her boyfriend that he would pay these bills.
She stated she had taken accountability for these debts and that they would be paid on
or after January 22, 2023. No evidence of a payment was provided.
SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f:  medical accounts placed for collection in the amounts of $240
and $50. The accounts remain delinquent. (Item 5 at 3 and Item 6 at 3.) Applicant stated
in  her  Answer  she  had  now  “taken  accountability  for  [these  debts].”  She  declared  that
they will be paid on or after January 22, 2023. No evidence of a payment was provided.
She explains in her Answer that her debt was the result of youth and naivety. She
had agreed to split the bills with her boyfriend but that did not happen. Moving forward
her plan is to not overextend her ability to pay. She adds in her Response that the steps
she took to “develop and maintain a wellness plan” has increased her credit score from
405 to 674 and that her student loans have been restored to good standing. She offers
she has reached out to a credit counseling agency and will be a member going forward.
She does not support these statements with documentation.
Applicant offers in her Response that her employer expressed to her that she is
trustworthy, exercises good judgment, and is reliable. She notes she is eligible for rehire
from a previous employer. She does not provide any supporting documentation.
