Applicant  admitted  some  of  the SOR  allegations,  with  explanations,  and  denied
other allegations. His admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a thorough and
careful  review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He is currently unemployed, but he is being sponsored
for a security clearance by a federal contractor. He served in the U.S. Air Force from 2013
to 2019, when he was discharged with a general discharge, under honorable conditions.
He holds an associate degree and is taking additional courses. He is divorced and has
no children. He held a clearance while in the Air Force until it was suspended in December
2018. (Tr. 6, 37-38; GE 1, 6)
Under Guideline I, the SOR alleged: (1) Applicant received psychiatric treatment
for  depression  and  anxiety  in  November  2018.  He  expressed  suicidal  ideations  while
hospitalized; (2) Applicant received treatment at a military medical clinic from December
7, 2018, to about April 22, 2019, after expressing suicidal ideations. He was diagnosed
with conditions identified as adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood
and  an  unspecified  personality  disorder.  He  was  given  a  poor  prognosis.  He  was
evaluated  by  a  licensed  psychologist  in  December  2021,  who  affirmed  the  earlier
diagnoses  of  mood  disorder  and  adjustment  disorder,  and  also  characterized  his
prognosis as poor. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged: (1) Applicant received nonjudicial punishment
under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ),  Article  15,  in  February  2019  for
wrongful  use  of  testosterone;  (2)  Applicant  received  nonjudicial  punishment  under  the
UCMJ, Article 15, in April 2019 for wrongful use of letrozole; (3) Applicant was charged
with  engaging  in  abusive  sexual  contact  under  UCMJ  Article  120;  and  (4)  Applicant
received a general discharge from the Air Force in May 2019. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.d)
Under Guideline H, the SOR cross-alleged the two drug abuse allegations in SOR
¶¶ 2.a-2.b.
Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.d. The
SOR also alleged that Applicant deliberately gave false information on his August 2019
security clearance application (SCA) when he failed to disclose: (1) his hospitalization in
November 2018; (2) his illegal drug use in SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.b above; (3) his illegal drug use,
while  possessing  a  security  clearance;  and  (4)  that  he  had  his  security  clearance
suspended in December 2018. (SOR ¶¶ 4.a-4.e)
Phycological Conditions  (Guideline I).
Applicant  was interviewed  by a background  investigator in August 2019.  During
that interview, he admitted that he sought treatment for anxiety and depression and was
hospitalized at a military facility in November 2018. He sought this treatment after he had
moved out from living with his girlfriend in October 2018. He remained hospitalized for
approximately  36  hours.  Applicant  admitted  this  hospitalization  during  his  hearing
testimony. There are no medical records that document this hospitalization. There is also
no evidence supporting Applicant’s suicidal ideations at this point in time. (Tr. 54-56 ; GE
2 (p. 6), GE 4 (no reference to November 2018 hospitalization))
Applicant  voluntarily sought outpatient  counseling at an Air Force mental health
clinic from approximately December 2018 to  May 2019. The treatment stopped when he
was  discharged  from  the  Air  Force  in  May  2019.  His  medical  care  during  this  time  is
documented by the 120 pages of records contained in GE 4. Applicant’s primary mental
health provider during his sessions was Dr. C, a licensed clinical psychologist. Applicant
had one session with Dr. K, a psychiatrist. (GE 4 (pp. 14, 45-50, 112))
Dr.  C’s  initial  diagnoses  for  Applicant  in  December  2018  were:  (1)  adjustment
disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood (DSM-5 F43.23), and (2) unspecified
disorder of adult personality and behavior (DSM-5 F69). During the course of the next
several months, Dr. C continued to see Applicant in the clinical setting and documented
the following observations:
Applicant’s  first  session   on   December  7,   2018:  He  was   hostile   and
uncooperative  with  treatment.  He made  little eye  contact, which  challenges
his  credibility.   A   personality  disorder   is  suspect  of  interfering   with   his
accessibility to  treatment. He is scheduled for psychological testing.
Applicant’s  session   on   December  14,  2018:  He  was  uncooperative   with
treatment and  would rather talk about himself,  he  related  he  felt victimized
by a  woman  who raised a sexual assault allegation against him (see below
under  criminal conduct  discussion). He seems unwilling  to  engage  in  any
authentic therapeutic interventions;
Applicant’s session on  December 17, 2018: He may be  opening up but it is
hard for him to let go of blaming  his girlfriend;
Applicant’s  session   on   December  27,  2018:  He   is  forming   tenuous
therapeutic  alliance  after each  session  after he  initially enters  with  a  hostile,
irritable  attitude.  Once   he   opens  up   he   impresses  as  more  credible   and
empathy  for him  comes easier. He  is  beginning  to  talk   more authentically
about  his  conflicts   and   feelings   of  aloneness.  He   has   not   had   suicidal
ideations for at least a  month.
Applicant’s  session   on   January  4,  2019:   He  did   not   enter   session   with
hostility.  He talked  a  lot  about himself. He opened  up  about growing  up  with
guns and  they are a  part of his culture. He  expressed  that  no  one  ever being
there   for   him  and   this statement  might   offer an  opening   into   his personal
life.
Applicant’s  session   on   January  11,  2019:   He   presents  for  the   supportive
aspects  of  treatment  and   tends  to   become   argumentative   when   he   is
challenged.  He seems to  be  disinterested  in  real change  that can  come  from
psychotherapy.  However,  his  symptoms   have   reduced   dramatically  since
he   has  presented   himself  as  a   victim   regarding   the   sexual  contact
allegations.  He is  unauthentic and  he  is not  aware  that he  is presenting  that
way;
Applicant’s  session   on   January   14,  2019:   He  wants   to   come   off   his
medications  because  he  feels he  is underweight.  He  is  more focused  on  his
appearance  than  on  his current emotions.  He  is opening  up  to  some  degree
in therapy and  is gaining  some  minimal insight into  how his own behavior
has affected  his current  situation.   He  is   very   focused   on  the   women   who
have  wronged  him.  He wishes to  continue  treatment,  despite  his resistance
to it;
Applicant’s  session   on   February  22,   2019:   He  panicked   over  his  sexual
assault  charges,  so   his  reading   of   one   [Dr.  C’s]  notes   in  which   he   was
deemed  not credible  has weighted  meaning  at this time. He stated  that if he
lost  his sexual assault case  he  would kill himself. He also called  his mother
and told her the same  thing. He is contradictory in his reports of confirming
at the  same  time  denying  his suicidality.  (Note, on  this same  day, Dr. C was
informed   by   Applicant’s  First  Sergeant  that   Applicant   had   a   plan   to   kill
himself  with  a  gun  if  he  was  not discharged  from  the  Air  Force in  15  days.
Applicant had written a suicide  note.);
Applicant’s session  on  March 15,  2019: He  is  completely disengaged  from
treatment, is argumentative, and cannot be  pleased.
Applicant’s session  on   April 22, 2019: He attended  therapy  today despite
his complaint  that his treatment  is lacking.  He  seemed  lost  and  spoke  as if
treatment was his last  resort. He presented well-groomed and confident as
usual but he  seems confounded  about why he  is alone  and  what needs to
be  done  to  remedy his feelings of loneliness. He is distressed  about  leaving
the  Air  Force  which  is indicative of considerable ambivalence  on  his part as
he  also  complains  about   the   Air   Force  bitterly.  He  has  been   off   his
medications  for two  months. This was  the  last session  Applicant  attended
before his discharge from  the  Air Force. (GE  4 (pp. 33-37))
Dr. C’s final diagnosis was that Applicant presented with adjustment disorder with
depressed mood and anxiety. She summarized his overall progress during his sessions
as follows: “Patient  did  not improve  in  treatment and  was only checking  in  because  he
refused treatment but he was on the HIL (high interest list) and was required to check in.”
He did not have suicidal ideations at the beginning or the end of his sessions. She also
stated his prognosis is poor and that Applicant was unreliable and dishonest during the
course of treatment. (GE 4 (pp. 12-14)
In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer,  he  denied  that he  expressed  any  suicidal ideations
while  treated  at  the  Air  Force  mental  health  clinic  between  December  2018  and  April
2019. He also explained that he believed the prescription medication he was taking was
causing  “negative  feedback.”  In  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant  admitted  he  had  a
difficult  relationship  with  Dr.  C.  He  believes  she  took  things  out  of  context.  He  also
disagreed with the medications she prescribed for him. He denied  telling Dr. C that he
would kill himself if he lost his sexual assault case. He denied telling Dr. C that he called
his mother and told her the same thing. He denied writing a suicide note that his First
Sergeant  disclosed.  I  do  not  find  Applicant’s  denials  credible  when viewed against  the
conflicting record evidence. (Tr. 77-78, 89-91; SOR answer)
In December 2021, Applicant consented to a psychological evaluation arranged by
the DOD. Dr. M, a board certified, licensed clinical psychologist, approved by the DOD,
was retained to conduct the evaluation on December 4 and December 21, 2021. Dr. M
conducted clinical interviews of Applicant, reviewed the medical records contained in GE
4,  reviewed  Applicant’s  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)  medical  records,  and
conducted  psychological  testing,  including  The  Million  Clinical  Multiaxial  Inventory  4th
edition  (MCMI-IV)  and  the  Minnesota  Multiphasic  Personality  Inventory  3rd  edition
(MMPI-3). (GE 3)
Applicant’s MCMI-IV test produced a profile of a response style in need of social
approval  with  a  tendency  to  present  himself  in  a  favorable  light.  The  testing  results
showed  significant elevations  on  scales  related  to  histrionic,  turbulent,  and  narcissistic
personality patterns. The test showed that he also expressed general anxiety. The test
indicated  evidence  of  a  moderate  degree  of  emotional  lability  in  his  personality,  and
although  he  is  typically  able  to  function  adequately,  periods  of  marked  emotional,
cognitive, and behavior dysfunction are likely. (GE 3)
Applicant’s MMPI-3 test showed that the test’s validity scale raised concerns about
possible underreporting by him. However, the test was deemed valid. He presented as
well-adjusted, despite evidence to the contrary. The test revealed he likely engages in
compulsive behavior and displays a rigid, perfectionistic demeanor. The test showed no
evidence of disordered thinking or maladaptive behavior, but because of the possibility of
his underreporting, such behavior could not  be ruled out. (GE 3)
Based upon her overall evaluation, Dr. M concluded, “[Applicant] has a consistent
history of Mood Disorder and Adjustment Disorder, and although he does not currently
endorse any mental health symptoms, it is likely that he is minimizing due to the nature
of this evaluation.” Dr. M gave  the following prognosis: “[Applicant’s] prognosis is poor.
He lacks insight into his mental health condition, and he is unable to admit even minor
flaws.” Additionally, she stated that the inconsistencies between Applicant’s self-report of
his  mental  health  history  and  his  current  condition  contrasted  to  the  documented
treatment history call into question his judgment, reliability, stability, and trustworthiness.
(GE 3)
In  his SOR answer, Applicant indicated  that at the  time  of Dr. M’s evaluation  he
had  been  off  his  anti-depressant  medications  for  about  six  months.  Without  stating  it
directly, he implied that this had some impact on him at the time of the evaluation. He
denied suffering from bi-polar mood disorder, however, Dr. M did not specifically diagnose
him  with  that  disorder.  She  stated  that  without  further  testing  (a  neuropsychological
evaluation), the diagnostic picture was complicated. He has seen a therapist through the
VA two times in the past year. He provided some medical records from the VA, but none
contained any diagnoses or prognosis. He does not have any future sessions scheduled.
(Tr. 115-116; GE 3; AE D; SOR answer)
Criminal  Conduct  (Guideline   J)   and  Drug  Involvement   and   Substance   Abuse
(Guideline H)
In  October  2018,  while  Applicant  was  in  the  Air  Force,  he  tested  positive  for
testosterone,  a  schedule  III  controlled  substance,  during  a  urinalysis  test.  Further
investigation by the Air Force Office of Special Investigation (AFOSI) discovered three
witnesses who either saw Applicant inject himself with testosterone or other steroids, or
to whom Applicant admitted that he used such substances. A residential search revealed
that Applicant possessed a box of unused 31-gauge syringes and a vial of bacteriostatic
water. Based upon the foregoing, in January 2019, Applicant was administered Article 15
UCMJ proceedings by his commander for a violation of UCMJ Article 112a, wrongful use
of a controlled substance. After consulting with a lawyer, Applicant accepted the Article
15  proceedings,  rather  than  requesting  trial  by  court-martial.  After  making  a  written
presentation to his commander, his commander found him guilty of the offense and issued
punishment of a one grade reduction-in-rank and a reprimand. (GE 2, 7-8)
In January 2019, Applicant tested positive during another urinalysis for letrozole,
another controlled substance. Applicant was again offered Article 15 punishment, which
he accepted. His commander found him guilty of the offense and issued punishment of a
one grade reduction-in-rank and a reprimand. (GE 2, 7, 9)
In explaining these two drug incidents, Applicant claimed he took over-the-counter
boosters and was unaware that they may have contained prohibited substances. He also
claimed  that he  never received  the  actual urinalysis test  results, so  he  was  unsure how
the   substances  could   have   been   in  his  body.  In   his  hearing   testimony,  he   denied
knowingly using  illegal steroids and  injecting  himself with  any type  of steroid. He admitted
testing  positive  on  the  two  urinalyses.  I  did  not find  Applicant’s  testimony  credible  given
the  corroboration  evidence  for  the  positive  tests results  (three  witnesses and  the  search
results). (Tr. 69-70, 72; GE 2; SOR answer)
In  February 2019, Applicant’s former girlfriend  reported  to  the  AFOSI that when
she  and  Applicant  were  living  together  in  October  2018,  he  touched  her  in  a  sexual
manner on three occasions. She claimed she told him to stop on each occasion. Applicant
was  later  questioned  by  the  AFOSI  and  he  denied  any  nonconsensual  touching.  The
investigation  was  forwarded  to  Applicant’s  command  for  potential  criminal  action.  The
command decided that there was  insufficient evidence to act upon. During his hearing
testimony, he denied this allegation. Additionally, he claimed he was a victim of sexual
assault by his former girlfriend. (Tr. 45-48; GE 10)
Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  Air  Force  in  May  2019,  at  the  end  of  his
enlistment.  His  discharge  was  characterized  as  a  general  discharge,  under  honorable
conditions. (GE 1-2)
Personal Conduct (Guideline  E)
Applicant filled out an SCA in August 2019. In Section 21 of the SCA, he was asked
if  he  had  ever  been  hospitalized  for  a  mental  health  condition.  He  answered  “no.”
Applicant admitted he was voluntarily hospitalized in November 2018, for a 36-hour period
in a behavioral health facility. He claimed in his SOR answer that it was not related to
mental  health  issues.  Earlier  during  his  background  investigation,  he  admitted  the
treatment was for anxiety and depression issues. He told the investigator he was not sure
he should list it. (Tr. 55-56, GE 1-2; SOR answer)
In Section 23 of the SCA, Applicant was asked if, within the last seven years, he
had  used  any  illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances.  He  was  also  asked  if,  within  the
same  time  period,  he  used  illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances  while  possessing  a
security clearance. He answered “no” to both questions. That answer was false because
Applicant was used illegal steroids between July and October 2018 and December 2018
and January 2019. He held a security clearance at the time of these uses. In Section 15
of  the  SCA,  Applicant  listed  information  about  his  military  history.  In  the  subsection
inquiring about discipline, Applicant disclosed his discipline under Article 15 for positive
drug tests. This is similar information that should have been disclosed in Section 23, as
described above. (GE1)
In  Section  25  of the  SCA,  Applicant was asked  if he  ever had  a  security clearance
eligibility/access  authorization  denied,  suspended, or revoked?  He  answered  “no.” This
answer was false because  on December 3, 2018, his military commander issued a letter
suspending  Applicant’s access to  classified information. Applicant acknowledged  receipt
of   this   letter  and   signed   for  it  on   December   4,  2018.  In   his  SOR  response,  Applicant
admitted  improperly  answering  this  question.  He  did  not  provide  a  reason  why  he
answered improperly. (GE 1; SOR answer)
Applicant provided a letter of support from his current girlfriend. She stated that
when they started dating in May 2020, he disclosed a mood disorder to her resulting from
the death of his fiancée in January 2020. He was taking medication  at that time. After
about a year, he decided to come off his medications. After doing his own research, he
stopped taking the prescribed medications. She further stated that since coming off the
medications, he is a new man. She feels coming off his medication was the best choice
for him. (AE A-B)
