Applicant is 43 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor since
June 2020. He retired honorably with the rank of chief warrant officer 5 from the United
States Army after 23 years and three months of service in September 2020. He has held
a security clearance since 2001. He has a high school diploma and is taking university
courses online.  The most  recent information available indicates that  he  is married and
has four children ages 24, 10, 7, and 6. He is twice divorced.  (Item 3)
The  SOR  alleges  four  delinquent  accounts  that  have  been  charged  off  totaling
$25,139 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.d) and a utility account placed for collection for $133 (SOR  ¶
1.e). Applicant admits all the debts. Though Applicant disputes he owed the money, after
the SOR’s issuance, he paid the utility account. The alleged debts are listed on a March
19,  2021  credit  report,  an  April  1,  2022  credit  report,  and  an  October  19,  2022  credit
report. (Items 1, and 5-7)
Applicant reported a debt on a delinquent car loan in his Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86), which he submitted in March 2021. He did not list any other
delinquent  debts.  During  his  background  interview  in  April  2021,  Applicant  admitted  a
past-due car loan that he said was not currently delinquent. He stated in March 2020 he
was unable to keep his payments current due to his wife’s job  loss and COVID-19. He
confirmed his answers in the SF-86 and noted no further debts. When confronted with the
debts during his ROI, Applicant admitted them. He stated he did not list them due to an
oversight regarding the requirements for listing. Applicant stated the debts alleged in SOR
¶¶ 1.b and 1.d were solo credit cards. Further, he was not aware of the debt alleged in
SOR ¶ 1.c but did not dispute it. The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e (a utility bill) he stated
was his, but he disputed the underlying charge due to a former landlord’s failure to remove
him from the bill after he had moved.  (Items 2-6)
Applicant admitted the debts alleged in the SOR in his response to an interrogatory
from the DODCAF. For the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.d, he admitted they were not
paid, payment arrangements had not been made, and he was not making payments. He
stated the alleged debt in SOR ¶ 1.e had been paid. He stated he had run into hard times
with  his  family’s  expenses  post  his  Afghanistan  deployment  and  he  overextended  his
family’s finances. He admitted poor financial planning while on active duty. He states he
had been working with a credit counseling team to pay down his debts, but these were
charged  off  while  he  was  actively  paying  on  them.  He  states  further,  “[n]ow  that  I  am
retired and able to afford to fix my mistakes, I am trying to do so by leveraging planners
as well as legal to reduce the amount I have to pay and fix my credit within all the laws
that  exist.”  He  states  that  he  stopped  paying  his  charged-off  debts  on  the  advice  of  a
wealth manager. He attached his 2021 W-2 and his 02/11/2022 pay stub as proof he has
sufficient  means  to  satisfy  these  debts.  His  personal  financial  statement  indicates
sufficient discretionary funds monthly. His credit reports also indicate he was able to pay
several sizable car loans, though not always on time. (Items 4-7)
In his response to the SOR, Applicant confirmed the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
- 1.d.  He  reaffirmed  he  was  not  making  payments,  again  based  on  the  advice  of  his
financial planner. He raises, for the first time, that he believes “half if not all of the charges
on  the  cards  was  [sic]  not  [his]  due  to  identity  theft  and  worked  with  their  credit  fraud
office, as well as the credit consulting company.” He further states that due to his inability
to  “pay  this  debt  that  it  was  moved  into  a  credit  consolidation  loan.”  He  provided  no
additional corroborating information. As in his response to the DODCAF interrogatories,
he again states he now has sufficient financial means, “now I have a great job, my wife is
working, and we are making good money and can pay off the debt. I sent my W2s in with
the original request for information showing that between retirement and salary I make
over $300k…I am in the best financial position that I have ever been in over the past 20
years that I have had a clearance.” (Item 1)
Applicant provided evidence he has sufficient means to pay off the debts but has
chosen not to do so based  on  his financial planner’s advice.  He has stated both in his
response to the DODCAF interrogatories and in his response to the SOR that he “could
pay of the debt, but that will not clear it from [his credit] report.” He asserted, as he did in
his response to the  DODCAF interrogatories, that he would “set up  payments ASAP” if
his clearance were at risk. (Items 1, 4)
