In Applicant’s SOR response, she denied all five of the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e.
Department  Counsel  submitted  three  credit  reports  which  support  the  SOR  financial
allegations. (GE 3, GE 4, GE 5)
Applicant is 53 years old. In June 1998, she immigrated to the United States from
Liberia.  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  November  2003.  In  2005,  Applicant
married  and  divorced  in  2010.  She  married  a  second  time  in  2014,  and  she  became
widowed  in  2018.  She  has  a  daughter,  age  27,  and  three  minor  children  between  the
ages of 17 and 13. She received her cosmetology license for management and business
in May 2012. In 2022, she earned an associate degree in cybersecurity. (Tr. 87-92; GE
1; AE F)
Applicant has been employed as a protective agent for a government contractor
since November 2020. She was issued an interim security clearance, but she lost her job
in September 2022 after her interim security clearance was revoked with the issuance of
the SOR. She earned over $28 an hour for this position. She recently started employment
as a certified nursing assistant earning $20 an hour. Applicant would like to receive her
DOD security clearance so that she can resume her employment with the government
contractor. (Tr. 87-92, 103; GE 1; AE F)
Financial Considerations
Applicant created significant debt due, in part, to her ignorance of business and
financial practices. She does not believe she is responsible for the SOR debts because
of her lack of knowledge, and her claim that these creditors took advantage of her and
were dishonest in their business transactions. Her financial problems worsened after she
lost her employment in about September 2022. (Tr. 95-102; SOR response)
The SOR alleges five delinquent debts totaling approximately $40,335. The record
establishes the status of Applicant’s accounts as follows:
SOR ¶¶  1.a  and  1.e  allege two delinquent accounts with an insurance company
that were referred for collection in the amount of $118 and $85, respectively. In the SOR
response, Applicant stated that she does not owe any money to this insurance creditor,
and that these are false allegations. During the hearing, she testified that she had opened
an account with this creditor, and they sent her a piece of equipment to install in her son’s
car. She was unable to install the equipment. She thought the account for $118 was for
the equipment she returned to the insurance company, although the return was admittedly
late.  She  provided  photos  of  the  equipment  and  the  mail  receipt  for  the  returned
equipment.  She  also  provided  a  screen  shot  from  the  creditor  acknowledging  the
equipment was received. Applicant said the information from the insurance company was
confusing. She called them multiple times to have them explain why she owed any money,
but the insurance creditor could not provide any information. She has not paid any money
to either of these delinquent accounts. (Tr. 25-42, GE 2, GE 3, GE 4, GE 5, AE B)
The  credit reports in  the  record show that  SOR  ¶  1.a  is a duplicate  account for
SOR ¶ 1.e since they have the same account numbers. Based on the most recent credit
report,  the  insurance  account  has  an  outstanding  balance  of  $35.  Applicant  has
reasonably disputed this $35 debt.  (Tr. 25-42, GE 2, GE 3, GE 4, GE 5, AE B)
SOR ¶  1.b  alleges a charged-off car loan account in the amount of $10,208. The
February 2023 credit report showed that the account was opened in February 2019, and
April 2020 was the date of “major first delinquency reported.” Applicant denied this debt
in her SOR response and claimed it was a false allegation. She provided a September
2021 statement that she received pre-approval from the car loan creditor for financing.
She initially wanted to purchase a Lexus when she went to the dealership, but she ended
up buying a Mitsubishi instead. She testified that she had been at the dealership all day
and  signed  the  paperwork  to  purchase  the  Mitsubishi  car.  She  was  unhappy  with  this
vehicle and called the car-loan creditor. She was advised to return the car back to the
dealership if she did not like it. It is unclear how long she had possession of the car, but
at the minimum, she had the car for a week. On July 12, 2019, she called the dealership
and  reported  the  conversation  she  had  with  the  car  loan  creditor.  The  next  day  she
voluntarily returned the car to the dealership. She reported this information to the car loan
creditor, who in turn told her that she had nothing to worry about and that she did not owe
any money for the returned Mitsubishi car. The February 2023 credit report showed that
Applicant had disputed this account with the car loan creditor, but after information was
provided to the credit agency, the account was taken out of dispute status. Applicant did
not provide  supporting documentation  to  show that  she  is not  liable  for this delinquent
account. For example, she did not provide correspondence sent to the creditor or credit
reporting company  explaining  why  she  believed  she  was not  responsible for this debt.
This debt remains unresolved. (SOR response, Tr. 49-66, 93-97; GE 2 page 5, GE 3, GE
5; AE E)
SOR  ¶   1.c  alleges  a  car  loan  creditor  account  for  a  repossessed  car  with  an
outstanding deficiency balance of $29,692. In May 2019, Applicant stated that she had
purchased a Ford vehicle, but due to the pandemic, she lost her employment  in March
2020.  She  called  the  car  loan  creditor  to  report  her  unemployment  and  to  see  if  the
creditor  would  work  with  her  on  a  payment  plan.  Based  on  her  September  2021
interrogatory, her car  was  repossessed  in October 2020. There were inconsistent details
reported  in the  interrogatory and  during  her testimony. She  claimed  the  creditor told her
that  if she  wanted  the  car, she  could  redeem  the  vehicle  in the  amount of $2,867. If she
did  not  want  the   car returned,  she   did not owe  any money.  Applicant  testified  that  the
creditor  was  dishonest,   and   she   is  not   liable   for  this  delinquent   account.  She   did  not
provide  sufficient supporting  documentation,  and  this debt  remains unresolved.  (Tr.  66-
80, 95; SOR response, GE 2, GE  5; AE E)
SOR  ¶   1.d   alleges  a  delinquent  account  with  a  bottled  water  supplier  that  was
referred for collection in the amount of $232. During the hearing, Applicant stated that this
account was opened in about July 2020 at a retail store for a water bottle delivery service
for her residential water cooler. After four bottles of water were delivered, she called the
water supplier and told them that her equipment was incompatible and their water bottles
would  not  work  with  her  cooler.  The  water  supplier  told  her  to  leave  the  bottled  water
outside of her residence and they would pick it up. They automatically charged her credit
card approximately $150 for this service. She did not understand why the water supplier
account showed an outstanding balance of $232. She had called the creditor on several
occasions,  but  no  one  was  able  to  respond  to  her  questions.  Applicant’s  supporting
documentation submitted to demonstrate that she is not responsible for the unpaid $232
debt was insufficient and unpersuasive. For example, she did not provide correspondence
sent to the creditor or credit reporting company explaining why she believed she was not
responsible for this debt. This debt remains unresolved. (SOR response, Tr. 42-49, 92;
GE 3)
During  the  hearing  Applicant  discussed  delinquent  accounts  that  were  listed  on
her  February  2023  credit  report.  These  delinquent  accounts  were  not  included  in  the
SOR.  She  did  not  know  why  her  credit  report  showed  a  delinquent  account  with  an
insurance  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $167,  but  she  did  admit  that  she  had  business
dealings with  this company. She  also had  two  delinquent  credit card  accounts totaling
$303.  In  July  2022,  she  had  another  credit  card  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
amount  of  $665.  She  stated  that  she  is  aware  of  these  credit  card  accounts  and  has
contacted the creditors about her employment and financial issues. She stated that some
of the SOR debts she was unaware of until she received the SOR in September 2022.
She admitted that she was aware of the two largest SOR debts when she completed her
interrogatory in September 2021. (Tr. 80-85, 97-100; GE 2, GE 3; AE D)
