In Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted the SOR allegations in ¶ 1.a, and he
denied  the  remainder  of  the  SOR  allegations.  (HE  3)  He  also  provided  mitigating
information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant is 24 years old, and he is enrolled in a graduate program to enable him
to  earn  a  master’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering.  (Tr.  18)  In  2021,  he  received  a
bachelor’s degree in computer engineering. (Tr. 22-24) He works for a defense contractor
as a testing and design engineer. (Tr. 18-19) He is not married, and he does not have
any children. (Tr. 21) He received an award and a scholarship because of his academic
accomplishments, and he maintained a high-grade point average (GPA). (Tr. 21-22; AE
C;  AE  D)  He  has  never  served  in  the  military.  (Tr.  65)  His  resume  provides  additional
details about his professional and technical experiences. (AE B)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying  frequency  from about
September 2017 to about October 2021. SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 2.a allege he intends to use
marijuana in the future.
Applicant occasionally used marijuana from 2017 to October 2021. (Tr. 24; HE 3)
In  2020,  he  purchased  marijuana  on  one  occasion  for  recreational  use.  (Tr.  26)
Sometimes he used marijuana once a week, and sometimes he did not use marijuana for
several months. (Tr. 27, 45) When he used marijuana in 2020 and 2021, which was during
the  pandemic,  he  was  alone  at  home.  (Tr.  27)  He  was  aware  that  his  marijuana
involvement was illegal under federal law. (Tr. 26, 28) He did not use marijuana or any
other illegal drugs while working for a DOD contractor. (Tr. 28-29) He had one test for
illegal drugs in 2022, and he did not test positive. (Tr. 29) In his SOR response, Applicant
said he had no intention of using marijuana again. (HE 3)
Applicant  said  he  chose  to  end  his  marijuana  use  because  of  its  effects  on  his
health. (Tr. 30) He said marijuana use caused him to feel anxious, and he was worried
about  someone  walking  past  his  door  and  smelling  marijuana  smoke.  (Tr.  30,  40)  A
secondary reason for ending his marijuana use was his applications for employment and
concern about passing pre-employment drug tests. (Tr. 53-54; GE 2)
Applicant  provided  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse
is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (AE A) See AG ¶ 26(b)(3), infra.
On  March  27,  2023,  Applicant  received  a  drug-use  evaluation.  (AE  P)  The
evaluation states:
He began  experimenting  with  marijuana  in 2017  using  it in a  recreational
setting   if  his  friends   had   it.  In   2019,   he   .   .  .   would   occasionally  go   to   the
dispensary to  use  for anxiety  and  relaxation.  He denied  his THC use  has
ever  crossed   over  into   a   problem   and   he   has  never  had   a   problem   with
stopping  the  use  of the  drug. He  denied  any  other type  of illicit drug  use.
(AE P at 1)
In  his  evaluation,  Applicant  “denied  ever  having  a  problem  with  alcohol  or
marijuana.  He  has  no  plans  to  use  the  drug  now  or  in  the  future.  There  is  no
recommendation for treatment at this time.” (AE P at 2)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges Applicant minimized the extent of his marijuana use on his April
9, 2022 SCA when he said that he used marijuana “[a]pproximately 10 times total” during
the previous seven years. (GE 1). SOR ¶ 2.c alleges he said on his SCA that he did not
intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  “due  to  paranoia  and  lack  of feeling  in  control  of
personal actions.” (Id.)
A  May  17,  2022  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  summary  of  personal
subject interview (PSI), indicates Applicant told the investigator:
Subject  first smoked  marijuana  in or about Sep  2017. He  smoked  the  drug
with  friends. He  did not smoke  marijuana  again until 2019.  From  2019  to
about Oct  2021, Subject smoked  marijuana  36  to  40  times, discrepant.  He
advised  that he  listed  10  times on  his security clearance  paperwork because
he  wanted  to  minimize  the  amount  of  his  usage. Subject stated  his  decision
to  falsify his security clearance  paperwork pertaining  to  his  marijuana  use
[was] deliberate and willful.
From   2019   to   Oct  2021,  Subject  would  purchase   his  marijuana   from
dispensaries in [a  state] where  recreational usage  is legal. Subject  stated
he   stopped   smoking   marijuana   in  or  about   Oct   2021   because   he   was
applying for jobs and was concern[ed]  he would not pass a  drug test.
Subject  was  asked  about  his future  intent  regarding  marijuana  usage,  and
he  advised  it  is highly probable  that  he’ll  use  marijuana  in the  future.  Subject
was asked  if he  would  smoke  marijuana  in  the  future  knowing  that  it  violates
federal law; he  advised  yes.  However, he  initially stated  that  he  would not
smoke   marijuana   while   holding   a   clearance.  Shortly   thereafter,  he
transitioned   his  answer  that  there   was   a   reasonable   chance   he   would
smoke  marijuana  while  holding  a  security clearance  even  if it violated  policy
and  federal law.
Subject  was asked  what  [other]  federal law he  feels  he  does not have  to
comply with. He  advised  this is the  only federal  law he  does not comply with.
Subject  was asked  if it showed  poor judgement that  he  violated  and  is willing
to   violate   federal  law;  he   advised   yes  that  it   does  show  poor  judgement.
Subject was asked  if a  person  that exercises poor judgement should  hold a
security clearance. He  stated  no.  He was  asked  if  he  should be  granted  a
security clearance  and  he  advised  yes.  He stated  after further reflection, he
has decided  not to use  marijuana  in  the  future  as  long as it  violates  federal
law or violates security clearance rules.
Subject denied any other illegal drug use. (GE 2)
Applicant  had   an   opportunity  to   submit  corrections  to   the   summary  of  the   OPM
interview, and  he failed to  make  corrections because of “a lack of due diligence.” (Tr. 37,
52) At his hearing, he  said he  told  the  OPM  investigator he  used  marijuana  36  to  40  times
based  on  use  every two  weeks over a  19-month  period  from  2020  to  2021. (Tr. 45-46) As
to  the  number of his marijuana uses, he  said “I do  not believe  it’s an  inaccurate  number,
but I am  not  sure  of  the  exact number.”  (Tr. 48, 62-63) He estimated  the  true  number of
marijuana  uses to  be  in  the  mid-20s  or more generally between  10  and  40  times. (Tr. 49,
63) He acknowledged  he  may have  underreported  his marijuana  use  on  his SCA,  and  he
may have  given  the  OPM  investigator an  inaccurate  number of marijuana  uses due  to
being “flustered” and  out of a desire to be cooperative and to agree  with the investigator.
(Tr. 50, 59)  He denied  that he  deliberately underreported  his marijuana  uses on  his SCA,
and  he  insisted  “[a]t  the  time  [he] filled  it out [he] believed  it was, approximately 10.” (Tr.
60-61)
As to  his future  intentions about marijuana  use, Applicant  told  the  OPM  investigator
“to   his  knowledge”  he   did  not  intend   to   use   marijuana   in   the   future.  (Tr.  33-34)  The
investigator  interpreted   the   words  “to   his  knowledge”  to   be   an   equivocal  denial  of  his
intention  not to  use  marijuana, and  the  investigator pressured  Applicant on  this issue. (Tr.
33-35) Applicant attempted  to  convey to  the  OPM  investigator that  he  did  not intend  to
use   marijuana   in   the   future;   however,  he   “tripped   over  [him]self  and   said,   in  kind   of
thinking  [he] said no  at the  time, or the  only other answer in this situation, is yes.” (Tr. 57)
He was “kind  of  scrambl[ing]  to  pick up  the  pieces in  a  sense.”  (Tr. 58) He was  flustered
and   did   not  “know exactly  why  [he]  said   that”  there   was   a   good   chance   he   would  use
marijuana in  the future. (Tr. 58)
Applicant said the OPM investigator questioning caused him to become “flustered”
and he felt pressured. (HE 3) The OPM investigator used “napkin math” to increase the
number of estimated marijuana uses to 36 to 40 times, and during the interview, Applicant
agreed  with  the  estimate.  (Tr.  31;  HE  3;  GE  2)  He  did  not  have  a  precise  number  of
marijuana uses. (Tr. 31) He denied that he said he “willfully and deliberately falsified [his]
application to minimize [his] marijuana usage.” (Tr. 31; HE 3) He denied that he intended
to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 36, 38)
Character Evidence
Three  coworkers,  including  his  manager,  and  two  friends  from  his  university
praised his good character and/or contributions to his employer. (Tr. 41-43; AE K-AE O)
The general sense of their statements and his academic records is that he is exceptionally
intelligent, diligent, skilled, talented, dedicated, responsible, and professional employee.
