In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  with
explanations. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old security officer employed by a federal contractor since
February 2022. He was employed as a security officer by a non-federal employer from
April 2012 until June 2014, when he was fired for flashing his company-issued firearm at
a  driver  who  had  been  tailgating  him.  The  tailgating  driver  notified  the  police,  who
arrested  Applicant,  confiscated  his  firearm,  and  charged  him  with  assault  with  a
dangerous  weapon.  Applicant  was  placed  on  ankle  monitoring  for  six  months,  after
which the charge was dismissed. He was unemployed from June 2014 to March 2016.
He  was  employed  as  a  security  officer  by  several  non-federal  employers  from  March
2016  until  he  was  hired  by  his  current  employer.  He  has  never  held  a  security
clearance.
Applicant  attended  university  classes  from  June  2009  to  June  2015  but  did  not
receive  a degree.  He incurred  the delinquent student  loans alleged in  the SOR  during
this time. He has resided with a cohabitant since November 2021. He has no children.
The  SOR  alleges  a  car loan  that  was  charged  off  for $12,869  (SOR  ¶  1.a); ten
student  loans  totaling  $30,996  that  have  been  placed  for  collection  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.k);
and  a  delinquent  credit-card  account  placed  for  collection  of  $123  (SOR  ¶  1.l).  In  his
answer to the SOR, Applicant attributed his delinquent debts to unemployment, reduced
income, reduced working hours due to COVID, and mental distraction due to the deaths
of his father, mother, youngest brother, and best friend. He submitted evidence that he
had made one payment on the car loan and had paid off the credit-card account. In his
answer to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  had  made  a  payment  agreement for the  car loan,
but he submitted no documentation  of a payment agreement.
When  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in  May  2022,  he
admitted that he had not made any attempts to repay his student loans because of his
low pay and his need to pay essential bills such as rent, food, and his car loan. (FORM
Item 3) He did not submit any information showing his income and expenses at the time
the  student  loan  payments  became  due,  nor  did  he  submit  any  current  financial
information.
On  March  27,  2020,  the  Coronavirus  Aid,  Relief,  and  Economic  Security  Act
(CARES  Act)  became  law,  and  it  provided  for  relief  measures  on  Department  of
Education-owned  federal  student  loans.  This  student-loan  debt  relief  received  several
extensions.  The  CARES  Act  was  followed  by  a  DOE  debt-relief  program  that  was
stalled  by  litigation,  and  the  pause  in  student-loan  payments  remains  in  effect.  (See
www.studentaid.gov.)
.
A credit report from May 2022 reflects that all  of Applicant’s  student loans were
assigned to the U.S. Government for collection between February 2012 and September
2015. (FORM Item 4) Notwithstanding the pause in student loan payments  Appellant’s
student loans were delinquent before the CARES Act and subsequent COVID payment
pause  went  into  effect.  Accordingly,  there  is  a  concern  that  Appellant  will  not  make
payments on his student loans if collection of payments is resumed.
A recent credit report dated March 2, 2023, reflects  that the credit-card account
has been paid in full, and payments on another car loan that is not alleged in the SOR
are current. However, it also reflects that payments on the charged-off car loan are still
past due in the amount alleged in the SOR, and it reflects a telecommunications bill, not
alleged  in  the  SOR,  that  became  delinquent  in  May  2020  has  been  referred  for
collection  of  $145.  (FORM  Item  6)  I  have  considered  the  unalleged  charge  of  assault
with  a  dangerous  weapon  and  the  unalleged  telecommunications  bill  for  the  limited
purpose  of  evaluating  Applicant's  evidence  of  extenuation  and  mitigation.  See  ISCR
Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006).
