Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 60 years old. She was married from 1988 to 1993. She remarried in
2020. She has an adult daughter. She has been employed by a federal contractor since
August 2019.
In approximately May 2016, Applicant recognized she had issues with alcohol and
began  attending  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA).  Between  May  2016  and  late  2017,  she
relapsed about once a quarter by drinking one to two bottles of wine on each occasion.
She then abstained from alcohol consumption between late 2017 and March 2019. (Item
6)
In March 2019, while working at a military retail facility on a military base, Applicant
consumed three small bottles of wine that she had brought to work with her in her purse.
She told the investigator that she had been under a lot of  stress due to her  upcoming
wedding and because she was offended that one of her co-workers wore his pants low,
and she was able to see his buttocks. She had previously registered a complaint with her
manager about how her coworkers dressed but was told there was nothing that could be
done about it. Applicant became intoxicated while at work. A coworker approached and
told her she was being relieved from her shift. Applicant went home because she was
intoxicated. She told the investigator that the next day she contacted her manager and
told him she was resigning from her position because she was a recovering alcoholic and
she had relapsed. She said she would not be returning to work because she needed to
focus on herself and her recovery. Her manager agreed with her, and she never returned
to work. She denied she was fired. (Item 6)
Applicant completed a security clearance application in August 2019. She did not
disclose that she left her position in May 2019 after being relieved from her shift for being
intoxicated, and then resigned. (Item 4)
In October 2019, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. During
her interview, she disclosed that in 2013,  she had gastric-bypass surgery. Around that
time, she began consuming alcohol. She said she replaced her food addiction with alcohol
addiction. Her father passed away in 2013. Due to grief, loneliness, and stress, she began
consuming one to two bottles of wine a day and became intoxicated each time. She would
occasionally have hallucinations while intoxicated. (Items 6 and 7)
Applicant was asked by the government investigator why she failed to disclose that
she left her employment in March 2019 due to her alcohol incident and relapse, and she
said  she  was  embarrassed.  She  admitted  that  alcohol  had  a  negative  impact  on  her
professional  life  because  she  had  to  leave  her  position.  Her  alcohol  consumption
impacted  her  relationship  with  her  daughter  and  her  daughter’s  fiancé.  Her  daughter
bought breathalyzers to monitor Applicant’s consumption. She told the investigator that
she will always be a recovering alcoholic, and she will continue to attend AA meetings.
(Item 6)
There is no evidence that Applicant has participated in alcohol counseling, but she
reported to the investigator that she attended AA in May 2016 until August 2019 twice a
day, and she reported that she attended about three times a week from August 2019 to
October 2019. During her interview with the government investigator, she stated she had
been  sober  since  August  2019.  In  May  2022,  Applicant  completed  government
interrogatories and confirmed the accuracy of her statement to the investigator. She did
not provide any updated information about whether she continues to attend AA; whether
she has sought alcohol counseling; whether she has continually abstained from alcohol
consumption; and whether she has had any relapses. (Item 6)
In  October  2020,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  government-approved,  licensed
psychologist,  Dr.  L.  Applicant  disclosed  to  the  psychologist  that  she  had  a  history  of
depression and had attempted suicide twice in the past three years. Her first attempt in
2017 involved an overdose of pills, and she was taken to the hospital by ambulance. The
second attempt was after she lost her job in 2019 for drinking alcohol. She reported that
she  attempted  to  slice  her  wrists,  which  required  a  home  visit  from  a  mental  health
agency. The psychologist noted that Applicant reported that she had been diagnosed with
depression  in  the  past  and  was  presently  prescribed  psychotropic  medications.  She
receives medicine management through her general physician, though at the time of her
psychological evaluation, she had been referred to a psychiatrist, whom she had not yet
seen.  Applicant  also  reported  that  she  had  been  in  recovery  from  alcohol  use  for
approximately  18-19  months.  She  described  her  support  in  managing  her  alcohol
addiction was through AA and her husband and daughter. (Item 7)
Dr. L diagnosed Applicant with major depressive disorder (moderate) and alcohol
abuse  disorder,  in  remission.  Her  psychological  evaluation  noted  that  Applicant  had
persistent mental health issues and potential neurocognitive challenges that warranted
concern about her overall functioning. Dr. L noted  that Applicant’s issue  with  her mood
appears to be influenced by complicated and unprocessed grief surrounding her father’s
passing. In addition, Dr. L opined that while Applicant’s alcohol addiction is in sustained
remission,  Applicant  continued  to  demonstrate  limited  coping  capacity  to  manage
psychosocial  stressors.  As  such,  her  risk  for  relapse  and  emotional  dysregulation  in
response to situational stressors in her environment remained a concern. (Item 7)
Dr.  L  also  noted  that  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  her  mental  health  issues  and
addiction issues on her SCA. Applicant reported to the government investigator that she
was  embarrassed  about  her  alcohol  issues.  Dr.  L  opined  that  her  embarrassment  is
consistent with Applicant’s immense shame surrounding her mental health and recovery.
She stated that her level of shame and associated vulnerability warrant concern around
potential implications as it pertains to holding a security clearance, as Applicant’s lack of
candor and forthcomingness indicate unprocessed issues that may make her susceptible
to manipulation. (Item 7)
Dr.  L  opined  that  Applicant’s  current  level  of  functioning  may  interfere  with  her
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. She also noted that Applicant’s alcohol abuse
was  being  managed  presently  with  a  prolonged  period  of  sobriety  and  consistent
engagement in AA. (Item 7)
