Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2011. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has
held since about 2011. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2017 and a master’s degree in
2019. He married in 2022. He has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 36, 64-65; GE 1; AE
1, 9)
Applicant has a history of alcohol-related incidents and criminal conduct. He was
arrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI) in December 2015 and June 2021. He was
arrested or cited for public intoxication in July 2018, November 2018, and October 2019.
He was hospitalized for alcohol intoxication and suicidal ideation in February 2019.
Applicant  had  about  seven  shots  of  alcohol  at  a  bar  in  December  2015.  He
attempted  to  drive  home,  but  was  found  by  the  police  in  a  nearby  parking  lot  asleep
behind  the driver’s  wheel.  He had  a blood alcohol  test, but  he  testified  that he  did not
remember what his blood alcohol concentration (BAC) was on the test. He was arrested
and charged with DWI. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 80 hours of community
service  and probation for 12  months.  He  was  required to  take  three  alcohol education
classes. (Tr. at 36-39; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4, 10)
Applicant  then  girlfriend  (not  his  wife)  broke  up  with  him  while  they  were  at  the
wedding of the girlfriend’s sister in July 2018. He drank at the reception and then at a
restaurant. He then drove  and parked by the side of a secluded road and drank  in his
truck. The police found him asleep in the back of his truck. He was  arrested for public
intoxication.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  paid  a  fine.  (Tr.  at  39-44;  Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; GE 3, 10)
Applicant  was  drinking  at  a  bar  in  November  2018.  His  ex-girlfriend  contacted
him about getting back together. He drank too much  (about seven shots) and became
anxious  and  emotional,  and  he  started  crying.  The  police  took  him  to  the  hospital
because  they  had  concerns  that  he  was  having  an  anxiety  or  a  panic  attack.  The
hospital did not admit him, and he was arrested for public intoxication. He pleaded guilty
and  received  a  deferred  adjudication.  (Tr.  at  44-46;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE
10)
Applicant  was  drinking  wine  by  himself  in  his  apartment  in  February  2019.  He
drank  at  least  one  bottle  of  wine.  He  cut  his  finger  on  a  broken  wine  bottle,  and  he
accidentally caused a crease in an extension faucet. The water leaked from the faucet,
with the overflow going into the apartment below him. His neighbor called maintenance
about the leak. When maintenance arrived at his apartment, they noticed the blood and
the water, and they contacted the police. The police also received calls, apparently from
his  friend,  indicating  that  Applicant  had  threatened  to  end  his  own  life,  had  suicidal
thoughts  (ideation),  and  had  threatened  to  kill  his  friend.  When  police  arrived,  they
found  multiple  empty  wine  bottles,  and  Applicant  was  described  as  belligerent  and
intoxicated. (Tr. at 20, 46-50; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 10)
A  detention  warrant  was  issued,  and  Applicant  was  taken  to  the  hospital  in  the
evening  of  February  15,  2019.  His  lacerated  finger  was  treated,  and  his  blood  was
collected at 11:30 p.m. His BAC was .376%. He received a psychological screening the
next  morning.  A  differential  diagnosis  considered  was  suicidal  ideation  (SI),  homicidal
ideation (HI), co-ingestion, and acute alcohol intoxication. The provisional diagnosis was
alcohol abuse.  He  was  assessed  with  alcohol-induced  mood  disorder and alcohol  use
disorder,  mild,  abuse.  An  alcohol  use  disorder  diagnosis  requires  the  presence  of  at
least 2 of the 11 criteria listed in the DSM-5. Applicant was deemed to be positive for 3
of the criteria. The DSM-5 indicates that if 2 to 3 of the criteria are met, the disorder is
specified as mild. (Tr. at 67-68; GE 2; HE III)
The   doctor discussed  alcohol use   disorder with   Applicant.  She   encouraged   him
to   track  his  alcohol   use   and   to   seek  counseling   or  outpatient  support  for  alcohol  use
cessation. Referrals for treatment and counseling were provided  to  him. He did not meet
the   criteria   for  inpatient  hospitalization,  and   he   was   discharged   to   his   home   at  about
11:09  a.m. on February 16, 2019.  (Tr. at 67-68; GE 2)
Applicant  was  drinking  at  a  bar  in  October  2019.  The  police  arrested  him  for
public  intoxication.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  paid  a  fine.  He  does  not  remember  exactly
what happened. (Tr. at 52-54; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 10)
Applicant was arrested and charged with DWI, second offense, in June 2021. He
was  at  a  baby  shower  with  his  girlfriend  (now  wife)  that  lasted  for  about  eight  to  nine
hours.  He  drank,  but  he  did  not  believe  he  was  intoxicated.  He  stated  that  he  was
driving  with  his  girlfriend,  and  they  had  an  argument.  He  was  using  his  cell  phone  for
navigation, when it fell. He swerved and hit the curb. They parked  in a parking lot, got
out of the truck, and continued  to argue. The police arrived and arrested him. A blood
test measured .18% and .14% BAC. Applicant believes the tests were inaccurate. The
case is still pending trial. (Tr. at 20-21, 54-57, 65-67, Applicant’s response to SOR; GE
5, 11)
The  DoD  Consolidated  Adjudications  Facility  (CAF)  requested  that  Applicant
undergo  a  psychological  evaluation  in  March  2021.  The  evaluation  was  voluntary,  but
the request had the following option:
I  will  not  participate  in  an  independent  psychological  evaluation  with  a
provider retained by the DoD CAF. By initialing here, I understand that my
refusal to participate in an independent psychological evaluation will result
in  the  denial  of  my  security  clearance  application  due  to  my  failure  to
cooperate. (GE 7)
Applicant  agreed  to  undergo  the  evaluation.  He  reported  to  the  evaluation  in
August  2021,  but  he  refused  to  talk  about  the  June  2021  DWI.  He  stated,  “I  want  to
postpone  any  discussion  about  that  charge  on  the  advice  of  my  attorney.”  He
elaborated,  “I  don’t  understand  what  happened.  I  was  not  in  a  vehicle  and  I  didn’t
overconsume. I will discuss it at some point in the future after my attorney and I figure
out exactly what happened.”  The psychologist was unable to render a diagnosis or an
opinion. (Tr. at 21, 57-58, 70; GE 7, 8)
Applicant  wrote  in  his  response  to  the  SOR  that  he  realized  that  refusing  to
discuss the DWI with the psychologist was not in his best interest. He wrote:
I  realize  now  that  my  attorney  is  not  well  versed  in  handling  cases  that
involve  clients  with  security  clearance  requirements.  If  I  had  that
opportunity again, I would handle the situation differently. I would be more
than happy to go through another evaluation. If there are questions asked
of  me  during  this  process  or  during  my  hearing,  I  will  absolutely  provide
full and detailed answers.
Applicant relied on the generic advice of his attorney to not discuss the case. He
did not request specific advice from his attorney about the evaluation.  He realizes now
that it was a mistake to not fully participate in the psychological evaluation. He remains
willing to undergo another evaluation. (Tr. at 70-72; Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant admitted that 2018 to 2021 was “a dark time in [his] life,” which resulted
from  a  tumultuous  relationship  (previous  girlfriend,  not  wife).  He  denied  ever  having
plans to commit suicide. He had been sober for 718 days as of the date of the hearing.
He  has  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings  two  to  three  times  a  week  for
the  last  year.  He  also  saw  his  company’s  counselor  several  times.  His  marriage  is
happy, and his wife does not drink. He is more health conscious, with a better diet and
daily exercise. He does not believe that he is an alcoholic; but he is convinced that his
life is better without alcohol. (Tr. at 19, 23, 59-64, 68-70; Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant had a psychological evaluation by a clinical psychologist in May 2023.
She  diagnosed  Applicant  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  mild,  in  sustained  remission.  The
prognosis for continued sobriety was good. (AE 1)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  has  received  regular  promotions  and
awards.  He  is  praised  for  his  trustworthiness,  mentorship,  work  ethic,  responsibility,
empathy,  loyalty,  compassion,  honesty,  dependability,  judgment,  dedication,  and
integrity. (Attachments to Applicant’s response to SOR; AE 2-10)
