In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, he admitted the two allegations, SOR ¶ 1.a, that
he  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  January  2018  through  at  least
September 2022 and SOR ¶ 1.b, that he stated he may use marijuana in the future on his
SCA and in response to DoD interrogatories.
Applicant  is  a  21-year-old  electrician,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He
graduated from high school in May 2020 and started college in August 2020. He has been
working fulltime while in college. He is the process of receiving his associate degree, and
he will attend a university in the fall of 2023. He has been employed by a federal contractor
since February 2022.  (Item 2 at 9, 10-11 and Response.)
When  Applicant  submitted  his  SCA  in  March  2022,  he  disclosed  that  he  used
marijuana  from  about  January  2018  through  September  2021,  describing  the  use  as
“every now and then treated as a celebratory” and added he was “not a frequent smoker.”
(Item 2 at 26.) He then noted “if not prohibited to be used for work purposes then I would
most likely continue to use it every so often. But if my work prohibits I will not.” (Item 2 at
26.) He fully discussed his drug use during his background interview in May 2022. In the
interview  he  described  his  use  as  about  once  every  six months,  typically  on  a  special
occasion and added he does not seek it out. While he expressed that he would “likely”
partake in use in the future he added he would not partake if is required by his employer
to stop. (Item 3 at 8 of interview.) He responded similarly in his interrogatory response.
(Item 3 at 2-3.) In his interrogatory response he updated his date of last use of marijuana
to  September  2022.  (Item  3  at  2)  In  support of  his  statements,  he  submitted  his  most
recent  drug  screening  results  from  March  27,  2023,  RE-C,  and  his  certificate  of
completion of a drug and alcohol awareness class dated April 1, 2023, RE-B.
In his Response he stated he completed the SCA and DoD interrogatories with the
“mind  set  of  honesty  being  the  best  policy  in  the  questions  that  were  asked….”  He
affirmed he is fit to carry out his responsibilities, as well as manage himself accordingly,
and  that  he  will  not  smoke  marijuana  nor  partake  in  any  environment  or  people  that
affiliate with illegal substances. He stated, “he has made a choice to live a life that is drug
free for [his] own personal well-being and a successful future.” (Response.)
