Applicant is 37 years old, single, and has no children. In 2009, he has received a
bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering, and in 2015, he received a master’s degree
in aerospace-systems engineering. He worked as a general engineer for AGA from May
2010  to  December  2015.  He  was  unemployed  from  January  2016  to  July  2016  after
Company A, a DOD contractor, “rescinded” its employment offer. Since August 2018, he
has worked for Company B, a DOD contractor, as a software quality engineer. He was
granted  a  secret  security  clearance  in  March  2010,  but  he  did  not  hold  a  security
clearance at the time of the hearing. (Answer; GE 1; GE 2; GE 5; AE A; Tr. 26-28, 46-47,
105, 111)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  used  his  government  computer  on  various
occasions between  2011  and  2012,  “to  search  inappropriate  websites,  including  some
porn websites.” (SOR 1.a.) He admitted that he used his government computer to search
inappropriate  websites.  Additionally,  the  SOR  alleged  that  in  December  2015  he  was
allowed to resign his position at AGA, in lieu of termination, after allegations of misconduct
were made against him, and these misconduct  allegations were sustained by the  U.S.
Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). (SOR 1.b.) He admitted in part, and he denied
in part, this allegation; specifically, he did not appeal to the MSPB, and he denied that he
committed  the  underlying  misconduct  other  than  the  laptop  misuse.  Finally,  the  SOR
alleged that he deliberately failed to disclose the previously mentioned 2015 resignation,
in lieu of termination, in his 2016 SCA. (SOR 1.c.) He denied deliberately falsifying his
2016 SCA. (Answer)
Applicant  started  working  for  AGA  in  May  2010.  This  was  his  first  professional
position.  In  January  2012,  his  supervisor  wrote  a  Memorandum  of  Record  (MFR)
documenting  issues  regarding  “[Applicant’s]  persistence  in  requesting  permission  to
compile his CWS off days.” On October 1, 2012, Applicant received a MFR regarding his
“willful  disregard  to  follow  directions”  related  to  personal  travel  following  government-
related travel. Additionally, he used his government charge card for personal travel. The
counselings were not alleged in the SOR and will not be considered as disqualifying, but
they may be considered in determining whether the mitigating conditions are applicable
and in the whole-person analysis. (GE 6 at 4, 4, 53, 57, 94; Tr. at 43)
On March 13, 2013, Applicant signed an MFR documenting a formal counseling
session  regarding  complaints  from  female  co-workers  that  he  made  them  feel
uncomfortable “by his pattern of uninvited presence and staring, while in a common area.”
On  November  14,  2014,  Applicant  signed  an  MFR  documenting  a  formal  counseling
session  “on  his  perceived  misconduct  regarding  his  unwelcomed  and  unpredictable
behavior towards at least one  fellow  worker.”  His misconduct made  her “feel harassed
and  stalked  in  the  workplace.”  The  co-worker  was  one  of  the  individuals who  filed  the
complaint against him in March 2013. This MFR was also signed by his direct supervisor
and  a  representative  from  human  resources.  In  December  2014,  the  legal  office  for  a
government contractor supporting the AGA office contacted Applicant’s deputy program
manager  regarding  “action  about  to  be  initiated  against  [Applicant]  due  to  multiple
reported  incidents  by  a  female  [government  contractor]  employee in  the  [AGA]  office.”
She claimed Applicant verbally attacked and threatened her. No action was taken against
Applicant, because AGA was already in the process of moving him to another location.
These counseling sessions and allegations of misconduct were not alleged in the SOR
and will not be considered as disqualifying, but  they may be considered in determining
whether the mitigating conditions are applicable and in the whole-person analysis. (GE 5;
GE 6 at 4-5, 34, 38, 40-41, 54-56, 57-60, 94-95; Tr. at 44, 85-88)
As a part of AGA’s ROI, Applicant was interviewed on August 25, 2015, regarding
his behavior. He stated, “I look at females without intent of harassing them and I do not
think that staring offends people. No one is perfect and this is a tough business, so we all
need to be adults and have more maturity and backbone.” He also stated the women who
made  accusations against  him  were  “being overly sensitive and selfish,” had a  “hidden
agenda,” and “exaggerated” the events. In his statement, he also acknowledged that he
received  an  MFR  in  November  2014  “documenting  the  formal  behavior  counseling
session.” (GE 6 at 51)
Shortly  after  the  August  25,  2015  interview,  Applicant  was  placed  on  paid
administrative leave and barred from AGA. On October 2015, Applicant was advised by
AGA of a proposal to remove him from federal service  for the offense of  inappropriate
conduct, and he  was charged  with misuse of  his government  computer between  2011
and  2012,  as  mentioned  above,  as  well  as  six  additional  allegations  of  misconduct
between January 2015 and September 1, 2015, as detailed below. (GE 3-4; Tr. at 52,
110)
•  After being  moved  to  Area  X  on  or about January 17, 2015, on  various
occasions  from   January  to   August  2015,   Applicant  engaged   in
inappropriate   conduct   by  continually  walking   by  the   offices  of  and/or
staring inappropriate at [Woman A (WA)]  and [WB].” He was counseled
by his supervisor for this behavior and  instructed  to  cease  and  desist,
but  he   continued   to   engage   in   this  inappropriate   behavior despite   the
explicit instruction.  Finding: Sustained
o  Neither of these women were the complainants from the 2013
or 2014 MFRs. (Tr. at 73-75)
•   Applicant was removed  from  his place  of work in Area  X  and  moved  to
Area  Y  on  August 11, 2015. On  various occasions, from  August  11th  to
28th, he  engaged  in  inappropriate  conduct by  continually walking  by the
offices  and/or  staring   at  WC  and   WD.  He  was  counseled   by   his
supervisor   (who   was   different  than   his  supervisor  in  Area   X)   for   this
behavior and  instructed  to  cease  and  desist,  but he  continued  to  engage
in  this   inappropriate   behavior   despite   the   explicit  instruction.   Finding
Sustained
•  On  July 25,  2015,  while in the  AGA  front  office, Applicant’s  supervisor
witnessed   him   behave   and   speak  in  an   inappropriate   way  to   other
employees   regarding   his  timecard.  Applicant  stated,  “[T]hat   was   bull
crap  and  he  is lying,  he  needs  to  stop  and  take  five  minutes  out of his
day to sign my time card.”  Finding: Sustained
•   On   August  25,  2015,  Applicant  stopped   by  the   desk  of  an   executive
assistant  [WD]  and  stared  at her for an  extended  period, making  her feel
uncomfortable.   When   WD  asked   a   male   colleague   to   help  her  with
something,  and   he   walked   up   to   WD’s  desk,  Applicant  “stated   in   an
angry  voice/tone   “Ya’ll  Mother  Fuckers,”   or   words  to   that  effect  and
quickly left. Finding: NOT Sustained
•  On  Friday, August 28,  2015, Applicant’s supervisor notified  him  that  he
was being  placed  on  administrative  leave  for Monday,  August 31,  2015.
August  28th   was  a   scheduled   day  off   for  Applicant;  however,   he
attempted  to  access his office at 1825. He  then  attempted  to  access the
office  again on   Monday,  August  31st. When  he   was  questioned   about
this on  September 1st, he  stated  that wanted  to  see  what the  issue  was
and  retrieve  his laptop, and  that he  was unaware  that being  placed  on
administrative  leave   meant  that  he   did  not  have   access.   Finding:
Sustained
•   On  September 1, 2015, during  a  joint interview with  human  resources
and   security,   he   made   the   following   statements,   “I’m   suspecting
someone’s trying to get me in trouble…Someone with a  hidden agenda
is trying  to  get me  and  concoct  this thing.  I suspect  gossip  is going  on.
If  that is the  case, I’ll  seek revenge  and  suspect something  is wrong  with
that  person.  I think it’s  sweet sorrow –  it’s  a  saying  from  Shakespeare,”
or words to that effect. Finding: Sustained
o   At  the   hearing,  Applicant  admitted   that  he   made   these
statements,  but claimed  they were  just “very, very silly.” (Tr.
at 127)
•  A   review  and   report  of  the   contents  of  Applicant’s  laptop   computer
revealed  that from  2011  to  2012, he  conducted  searches that involved
the   lower  portion   of  the   female   anatomy   and   visited   websites   that
contained videos of this nature.  Finding: Sustained
(GE 3; GE 4; GE 5; GE 6)
To  the best of Applicant’s knowledge, the  women  who  worked in Area  X did not
know the women who worked in Area Y. Nor did either of these groups of women know
the women from his previous work location who made complaints against him 2013 and
2014. The three groups of women worked in different buildings and different departments.
However, it is clear from the statements in GE  6 that, while in Area X and Area Y, the
various women in each respective area discussed their interactions and experiences with
Applicant with one another and he had a general reputation for being “creepy.”  Some of
the statements in the ROI were made by people who heard things about him but did not
witness or experience first-hand threatening behavior. (GE 6; Tr. 137-139)
Applicant and his counsel responded orally to the above allegations on November
5, 2015. According to AGA’s December 2015 memo, Applicant stated that “the individuals
never told [him] to stop, and [he] was not given a 3 or 4 second rule. [He] also stated that
their claims were exaggerated.” (GE 3 at 4)
In  its  December  9,  2015  memo,  AGA  concluded  that  it  was  removing  Applicant
from federal service effective December 14, 2015. It sustained  six of the specifications
outlined above due to his inappropriate conduct and did not sustain one specification. The
agency  only  considered  the  information  provided  to  Applicant  (and  his  attorney)  and
Applicant’s  November  5,  2015  oral  response.  The  memo  noted  that  Applicant  was
counseled on five different occasions for the same conduct by two separate supervisors.
In the memo, he was provided information regarding his right to appeal the decision to
the MSPB. Applicant signed acknowledgement of the memo on December 9, 2015. (GE
3; GE 4; Tr. 51-52)
Applicant  indicated  in  his  July  2016  SCA  that  he  left  AGA  in  December  2015,
because  he  was,  “Dissatisfied  with  civilian  service;  Wanted  to  move  to  the  industrial
sector; Was originally extended a job offer at [Company A] at the time of resignation.” He
also reported his subsequent seven-month period of unemployment, because Company
A rescinded its offer of employment. He disclosed no derogatory information in this SCA.
(GE 1 at 13-14)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that Company A never gave him a reason as to
why they chose not to hire him. He was unable to secure another professional position.
He took freelance jobs delivering food and as a ride-share driver and moved in with his
parents. He also stated that he first applied to work at Company A in late November and
was offered a position in December. (Tr. 39, 69-70, 110-111)
During  Applicant’s  August  2017  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he
indicated he voluntarily resigned from AGA in December 2015 to accept an offer with a
defense contractor, but the offer was later rescinded by its legal office because he was a
too-recent employee of the federal government. He also stated that he never received
written warnings and reiterated that his resignation was voluntary. He was confronted by
the  investigator  regarding  allegations  of  searching  inappropriate  websites,  staring  at
female employees after being warned, and being terminated. He admitted to searching
inappropriate websites, including some porn sites, but only during his breaks or at lunch.
He  also  admitted  that  several  women  made  complaints  against  him  but  denied  the
underlying  conduct.  Additionally,  he  reiterated  he  never  received  a  formal  written
reprimand or warning for this behavior. He also  stated he  was on administrative leave
from September to December 2015, when he was allowed to resign (GE 5 at 4, 9-13; AE
C; Tr. at 61-62, 66-67, 126)
When Applicant adopted the above interview (undated DOHA interrogatories), he
repeated  that  he  “never  received  any  official  letter  of  reprimand”  from  AGA.  He  also
changed  or  corrected  his  typed  interview  and  claimed  that  he  only  ever  used  his
government  computer  inappropriately  during  “after  hours”  at  his  home,  never  at  the
government office. At the hearing, he testified that he still believes that he never received
formal or official reprimands or counseling. (GE 5 at 5-7; Tr. at 63-65)
In  Applicant’s August 2018  SCA,  he  revealed  additional information  regarding  why
he left AGA in December 2015:
Despite  the  allegations, I strongly  disagree  with  the  charge. At the  time,  I
considered  pressing  charges against  the agency for slander & defamation.
I made  an  executive  decision  not  to  because  I was in  the  midst of changing
employers at  the  time.  If the  allegations  cause  an  adverse affect [sic]  on  this
security  application   process,  I  will   seek   legal  recourse   against   [AGA   for]
slander and defamation.
Applicant  also  indicated   that  he   left  AGA   by  mutual  agreement   following   charges  or
allegations of misconduct,  and  the  charges alleged  against  him  were  that he  “caused  a
hostile  work  environment.”  He  did   not  provide   specific  information   regarding   what
allegations were made against him. (GE 2  at 15-16, 33; AE D; Tr. at 59)
During  Applicant’s November 2018  interview with  a  government investigator, he
indicated that his misuse of his government computer was discovered while he was on
administrative leave. Prior to this period, he had not disclosed his inappropriate conduct
to anyone. He also disclosed that he ultimately settled with  AGA in May 2016, and his
SF50, was backdated to December 2015. (At the hearing, he stated that they settled in
March 2016.) The SF50, indicates that Applicant’s characterization for leaving AGA was
“resignation.”  Applicant  testified  his  attorney  indicated  that  this  characterization  was
correct. According to his hearing testimony, he started to plan to leave AGA in mid-2013
and transition to the private sector; therefore, his 2016 SCA characterization for leaving
AGA was not inaccurate. However, upon cross-examination he admitted that he did not
apply for a job with Company A until late November 2015, after he knew his job was in
jeopardy. (GE 3; GE 5 at 4, 16; GE 6 at 96-107; Tr. 35-38, 107)
During direct examination, Applicant stated that he did not intend to give a wrong
answer in his 2016 SCA. While he was being cross-examined, he stated that he partially
amended or changed the nature of his employment termination with AGA based upon his
August 2017 interview and the questions the investigator asked him. However, he also
claimed that the security clearance process was taking a long time, and he wanted to do
something  different to  make  the  process  “better.”  He  also admitted  that his 2018  SCA
more  accurately  reflected  the  nature  of  why  he  left  AGA.  However,  in  his  mind,  he
negotiated through his attorney a resignation determination; therefore, he was not fired,
nor  did  he  resign,  in  lieu  of  termination.  He  did  not  consult  with  an  attorney  before
completing either SCA. (Tr. 42, 53-61)
When Applicant was questioned by the Administrative Judge (AJ) regarding
his statements in his 2016 SCA, he stated:
AJ: [W]ere you concerned at all if you disclosed what…happened during the
course  of  your  employment  at  [AGA]…in  the  eQIP,  that  you  wouldn’t  be
hired by [Company A]?
Applicant: I had that concern, yes.
AJ: [W]ere you concerned if you disclosed this information – this negative
derogatory information that happened at [AGA] in your eQIP, that it might
cause a hiccup with your security clearance?
Applicant: I’m sorry, repeat that again please, I apologize.
AJ:  Were  you  concerned  if  you  disclosed  the  negative  derogatory,
information  related  to  your  employed  at  [AGA]  in  your  eQIP,  your  2016
eQIP, that it might cause a problem with your security clearance?
Applicant: Yes, absolutely. (Tr. 109-110)
When Applicant started his employment at AGA, he received training and knew it
was inappropriate to view pornography on his government computer. Applicant testified
that his misuse of his government computer occurred during off-duty hours, outside of his
work premises, and only at his home. According to the investigation report concerning his
laptop, some of the inappropriate websites were accessed during Applicant’s work hours
on  business days.  He did  not  provide  documentation  that  he  was on  leave  or working
from  home  for  these  dates.  Additionally,  he  claimed  that  his  behavior  discontinued
because  of  his  conscience;  however,  he  did  not  self-report his  conduct.  This behavior
occurred between 2011 and 2012, and he testified that he will never do it again. (GE 6 at
96-107; Tr. 30-32, 113-124)
In Applicant’s November 2018 interview, he disclosed that he forgot to disclose a
security  violation  in  October  2011.  He  told  the  interviewer  that  he  left  a  classified
document on his desk that was discovered by a co-worker. As a result, he was verbally
counseled.   According   to   AGA’s  September  2015   ROI,   Applicant  put   the   classified
documents in his backpack on  Friday,  October 28, 2011. “The  classified  documents were
not properly wrapped, documented, transported  or stored, and  remained  in his backpack
over the  weekend  and  went back/forth  to  work/home  through  Tuesday,  1  November 2011
where it was discovered  by security.” He was counseled  as a  result of this violation  and
received  remedial training. The  security violation  and  Applicant’s failure to  disclose  it in
both  of  his  SCA’s were not alleged  in  the  SOR and  will  not  be  considered  as  disqualifying,
but  the  conduct  may be  considered  in  determining  whether the  mitigating  conditions are
applicable  and  in the  whole-person  analysis.  (GE  1; GE  2; GE  5; GE  6  at 7, 24-25, 28-
33, 47, 49)
Applicant initially testified that he appealed his case to the MSPB. However, upon
questioning by the AJ, it was determined that he did not in fact appeal his case to the
MSPB,  because  he  was  able  to  negotiate  through  his  attorney  an  amended  SF50  in
approximately March or May 2016. (Tr. 37, 56, 101-105)
Applicant has had no disciplinary issues while at Company B. He has not informed
his employer of  any of the  issues  related  to his employment  with  AGA,  “because  they
never asked.” However, he admitted at the hearing that when he has been asked why he
left AGA he tells people at Company B, “I didn’t want to work in the government at that
point in my life.” Additionally, he stated that he has not “given them completely all of the
details…,  because  I  didn’t  want  to  talk  too  much.”  During  the  process  of  applying  and
being hired by Company A, he did not disclose any of his employment issues, because
they did not ask either. (Tr. 27, 45, 47-48, 50-51, 108-110, 112-113)
Applicant  volunteers  with  various  charitable  organizations  and  attends  church
virtually on a weekly basis. He provided five letters of support. All of the individuals had
reviewed the SOR, did not find the allegations to be reflective of his character, patriotism,
or willingness and ability to protect classified information. They all recommended that he
receive a security clearance. One of the individuals, a college professor, held a security
clearance  in  the  past,  and  another  individual,  a  friend  and  former  colleague  at  AGA,
currently holds a security clearance. There is no evidence in the record that the individuals
reviewed any of the government’s exhibits. (AE B; AE E; Tr. 29-30)
