Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  - 1.c  without  further  comment,  but  provided
comments  in  his  January  17,  2022,  response  to  DOHA’s  interrogatories  and  his
December 2, 2022, response to the Government’s proposed evidence to the FORM. His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 62-year-old contractor. He has been divorced twice, has one adult
child,  and  currently  lives  with  a  long-term  partner.  (Item  3  at  17-19)  He  earned  his
bachelor’s  degree  in  2004  and  his  master’s  degree  in  2014.  (Item  3  at  11-12) He  has
been employed as a contractor since 1981. (Item 3 at 12-14) He has never served in the
military. (Item 3 at 15)
The  allegations in  the  SOR concern Applicant’s long-term  use  of  marijuana  from
about September  1976  to  about January 2022  (SOR   ¶   1.a);  his  use  of  marijuana  from
about April 2009  to  August 2013  while granted  access to  classified  information  (SOR ¶
1.b);  and  his use  of  marijuana  from  about May  2018  to  January 2022  after completing  his
SCA on   May   24, 2021,   and   his   intention   to   continue   to   use   Marijuana   (SOR  ¶   1.c).
[Because  the  SCA was submitted  in May  2021, May  2018 appears  to  be  alleged  in error
and should have  been  May 2021.]
In   his  interrogatory  response,   in  which he    adopted   his  June   2021  background
interview after making  corrections and  clarifications,  Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana
since  1976  and  “on  and  off  for over four decades,  but  recently once  a  week  in  accordance
with  a  prescription.”  He  stated  he  consumed  infrequently when  he  held his clearance  at
a  defense  contractor but then  stopped  while he  held a  clearance  at subsequent defense
contractor. He  did   not state   whether he   had  access to   classified   material at   the   time   he
was using  and  working  for a  contractor. He  stated  he  stopped  in 2013  after his polygraph
and then resumed  use  sometime in  2018 when he got a prescription  for medical use. He
states he  consumes it responsibly for anxiety  and  pain  and  that he  intends  to  consume
marijuana  “legally and  per the  medical prescription.”  He stated  he  did not need  to  use
marijuana  and  would find  alternatives if his continued  use  would affect his employment.
He  has not    received   drug   counselling  or    attended  a   drug   education  class.   His   use  is
evaluated  by a  physician. (Item  4  at 13) He has never sold it and  only purchases small
quantities for personal use. (Item 4  at A-2)
Applicant stated he considers “marijuana an  organic, natural herb that helps [him]
with  anxiety and  pain” and  that he  does not “want to  use  synthetic drugs.” He states he
consumes  marijuana  “responsibly, legally with  a  prescription  and  in such  a  way  that  does
not  compromise [his]   work  performance, ability  to   keep   a   secret   or  to   be   the   target  of
espionage…”  He  states he  would prefer to  continue  his use  of prescription  marijuana  but
does not wish to “forfeit a clearance over it.” (Item 4 at A-3)
Applicant responded  to  the  FORM  on  December 2, 2022, acknowledging  “in   the
past  that [his] occasional use  of  marijuana  was prohibited  under federal law” and  states
he  is contrite  about  his objectionable  behavior. He  states  he  never used  marijuana  during
work hours or came  to  work under its influence. He  argues his use  has no  bearing  on  his
judgement or ability to  keep  a  secret.  He  requests a  favorable clearance  determination
but notes he  does “not expect  a  change  in  disposition  to  a  favorable decision  to  be  cleared
again due to [his] continued use of marijuana.” (Answer to FORM)
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme Court held in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard
