Applicant is a 62-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.
Background
Applicant  married  his  first  wife  in  October  1994  and  divorced  her  in  December
1997. (GEs 1-2) He attributed his divorce to being married too young and growing apart.
(GE 3) His former spouse passed away in 2000. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 39-40) He has one adult
child  (age  27)  from  his  first  marriage.  (GEs  1-2)  Applicant  remarried  in  January  2007
and has three children and one stepchild from this marriage (ages 19, 15, 14, and 11).
(GEs 1-3)
Applicant   earned   a   master   of  science  degree   in 1983   in   aerospace   engineering
from  an  accredited  Iraqi university based  on  his documented  coursework. (AEs  F-G; Tr.
37)  And,   in   1999   he   earned   a   bachelor’s  degree   from   an   accredited   Iraqi   university   in
English  literature  (becoming  fluent in the  English  language). (AE  E)  He  served 15  years
of mandatory active  military service in  the Iraqi  army before  retiring  in October 1998 with
the   rank  of  colonel.  (GEs   1-3)   While   in  the   Iraqi  army,  he   had   no   combat  experience.
(GE 2)
Applicant immigrated  to  the  United  States in November 2013. (GEs  1-2  and  AEs
B  and  G) He became  a naturalized  U.S. citizen  in  June  2019  (GEs  1-3) He  has  a  U.S.
passport that  was issued  in  July 2019  and  is  due  to  expire  in  July 2020. (GEs  1-2) His
Iraqi passport  issued  in  September 2011  and  expired  in  September 2019. (GEs  1-2; Tr.
57)   Applicant  applied   for  and   obtained   his   Iraqi  passport   to   facilitate   his  travel  to   the
United   States,  and   he   has  not  used   this  passport  since   becoming   a   naturalized   U.S.
citizen.  (GE   3)  Although,  he   remains  a   dual  citizen   of  Iraq.  (GEs   1-2;  Tr.  57)   Asked
about his  retirement  intentions, Applicant professed  his loyalty to  the  United  States  and
his desire to retire in this country. (Tr. 61-62)
Applicant has no  U.S. military service  experience.  While  he  has an  earned  Iraqi
pension  that pays  him  $900  a  month, the  pension  has  been  assigned  to  his daughter  in
Iraq who  receives  the  pension  benefits automatically from  the  Iraqi government  without
any  intermediate   transmissions  routed   through   Applicant.  (GEs  1-3;   Tr.  40,  55-56)   To
date,  Applicant’s  dispensed   benefits  to   his  daughter  approximate   $75,600.   (GE   2;   Tr.
55)  These   pension   benefits  were   used   by   his  daughter   to   fund   her   college   and   living
expenses. (GE 2)
Since  May  2022,  Applicant  has  been  employed  as  a  security  officer  for  his
current employer and seeks to use his language skills as a U.S. employee or contractor.
(GE 2) He continues to be sponsored by a legal interpreting service contractor who has
sponsored him for a security clearance since 2021. (Tr. 38-39) Between June 2014 and
May 2023. he was employed as a linguist for a Catholic charity. (GE 1 and AE G; Tr. 37)
He  worked  as  a  security  officer  between  February  2014  and  June  2014,  and  as  a
linguist between March 2009 and February 2014. (GEs 1-2)
Between  2003  and  2009,  he  held  periodic  linguist  assignments  with  the
Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq. (GE 2 and G; Tr. 32) Applicant’s translation work
included  translating  U.S.  contracts  into  Arabic.  His  linguist  assignments  included
translation  work  for  a  U.S.  commander  during  the  period  of  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom
between  March  2003  and  January  2004.  (AE  A)  His  work  for  the  U.S.  commander  in
Iraq covered furnished insights into the cultural and political landscape of the region in
Iraq  subject  to  his  commander’s  monitoring and  control.  (AE  A)  Applicant  relinquished
his linguist assignments in Iraq following the kidnapping of his younger brother in 2006
and threats on his own life by Iraqi military insurgents. (GE 2)
Family  connections  with  Iraq
Both  of  Applicant’s  parents  are  deceased.  (GE  1)  His  current  wife  and  children
are  naturalized  citizens  of  the  United States.  (AE  H) His  wife  is a  homemaker  with  no
current  plans  to  enter  the  U.S.  workforce.  (GE  1-3)  Applicant’s  father-in-law  is
deceased, and he maintains infrequent contact with his current wife’s mother-in-law who
is a citizen and resident of Iraq. (GEs 1-3)
Applicant  has  two  brothers,  seven  sisters,  and  a  27-year  old  daughter  from  his
first marriage, who are citizens and residents of Iraq. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 31-34, 46) His oldest
brother is a colonel in the Iraqi army. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 30) Applicant has infrequent contact
with  his  oldest  brother,  who  is  unaware  of  Applicant’s  application  for  a  U.S.  security
clearance. (GE 3) Applicant’ maintains quarterly contact with his youngest brother who
was kidnapped by Iraqi security forces in 2003 during the Iraqi Freedom campaign. (GE
3; Tr. 43)
Applicant maintains infrequent contact with his seven sisters who reside in Iraq.
(Tr.  51-57) Several  of  his  sisters are  teachers,  and  some  of  the  children  of  his  sisters
are  teachers  as  well.  (Tr.  46-47)  And,  some  of  his  sister’s  children  are  employed  by
Iraq’s  voluntary  army.  (Tr.  51-52)  He  has  not  provided  financial  support  to  any  of  his
brothers or sisters. (Tr. 48-55) Four of his sisters applied for refugee status in the United
States in 2016, and their applications are still pending. (Tr. 62-63) Currently, these four
sisters reside outside the historical family home region. (Tr. 63)
While Applicant’s daughter in Iraq is assigned his life-time Iraqi military pension
rights,  he  provides  no  other  financial  benefits  to  her.  (Tr.  56)  Applicant  expressed  his
willingness  to  renounce  his  Iraqi  citizenship,  even  it  meant  eliminating  his  military
pension rights. (Tr. 57-58)
Applicant assured that he has never provided any financial support to any of his
siblings  in  Iraq  and  has  no  plans  to  do  so  in  the  future.  (Tr.  46)  None  of  his  siblings
(save  for  his  older  brother)  have  any  affiliations  or  ties  with  the  Iraqi  government  or
military.  Besides  his  contacts  with  his  family  members,  Applicant  has  no  other  foreign
contacts (GE 3; Tr.58)
Country Status of Iraq
The Federal Republic of Iraq (Iraq) is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The
outcome  of  the  October  2021  parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international
standards  of  free  and  fair  elections.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Federal
Republic of Iraq (Iraq) at 2 and 2021 Iraq Human rights Report at 1; U.S. Department of
State (April 2022). The  elections were observed by  the  European Union and domestic
civil  society  organizations  and  monitored  by  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  or
Iraq. (id.) The 2021 elections were scheduled because of the widespread protests that
began in October 2019 and led to the resignation of former prime minister Adil Abd al-
Mahdi  in  December  2019.  Parliament,  in  turn,  confirmed  Prime  Minister  Mustafa  al-
Kadhimi in May 2020.
In  preparation  for the 2021  national elections,  Iraq  adopted  a  new  electoral  law
based on individual candidacy and local districts. The 2021 election law was designed
to  create  new  political  opportunities  for  independents  and  members  and  protest
movement that brought down the government formed after the 2018 election.  See Iraq
and  U.S.  Policy,  (Congressional  Research  Service  (May  2022).  Whether  the  election
results  and  formation  talks will reduce  the  formal influence of  Iran-aligned groups  who
seek  to  revise  or  rescind  Iraq’s  invitation  to  U.S.  military  advisors  to  remain  in  Iraq  is
unclear.
For  historical  perspective,  in  2003,  a  U.S.-led  coalition  invaded  Iraq  and
succeeded  in  removing  Saddam  Hussein  and  his  Ba’athist  regime  from  military  and
political  power.  See  the  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  U.S.  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (Feb.
2018); Background Note, Iraq, at 3, U.S. Dept. of State (Feb. 2008). After two years of
operations  under  a  provisional  authority,  Iraq’s  new  government  assumed  office  in
March 2006 (with the approval of the U.S. government), following free elections. (id)
Since  March  2006,  the  government  of  Iraq  has  been  comprised  of  a  broad
coalition of political alliances representing the Shiite, Sunni, and Kurdish blocs. See the
World Factbook: Iraq, supra, at 2; Background Note, Iraq, supra, at 8.  While elections
have been held and concluded, none of the key constituent groups have been able  to
form  a  government,  adopt  an  oil  law,  establish  and  maintain  effective  security
throughout  the  provinces,  or  neutralize  sectarian  divisions.  In  this  still  very  fragile
political environment in Iraq, there are substantiated reports of human rights abuses that
continue to underscore a still pervasive climate of tension and violence. See Iraq 2021
Human Rights Report at 2-3, U.S. Dept. of State (April 2022)
Post-COVID-19  protests  intensified  in  May  2021,  with  demonstrators  insisting
that the government identify and prosecute suspects in a series of assassinations and
kidnappings  since  2020  of  protest  lesdars,  activists,  and  a  prominent  security
researcher. The incidents have intensified public scrutiny of Prime Minister Al Kadhimi’s
credibility  and  his  government’s  ability  to  act  against  armed  groups  operating  outside
state control. Iraq and U.S. Public Policy,, supra.
Whatever  government  is  ultimately  forged  from  the  competing  Iraqi  political
blocks  is bound to test  will  U.S.  continued  security  cooperation and  other  bilateral ties
against  the  security  risks  posed  by  Iraq’s  cited  persistence  of  patronage  politics,
corruption, oil dependence, and armed non-state actors. See Request for Administrative
Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  2;  Iraq  and  U.S.  Policy,  at  1-2,  U.S.  Congressional  Research
Services (June 2021).
Iraq’s economy continues to be dominated by the oil sector, as it has for the past
half century since the completion of new pipelines to Lebanon in 1949, and to Syria in
1952. See the World Factbook: Iraq, supra; Background Note, Iraq, supra. As a result of
the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, much of Iraq’s oil-refining capabilities were shuttered. The
rebuilding of oil infrastructure and utilities  infrastructure has continued to expand since
2004 with U.S. aid and support, despite setbacks from insurgent activity.
Proposed  oil  revenue-sharing  legislation  among  the  three  war-hardened  ethno-
sectarian  divisions  (Shia,  Sunni,  and  Kurds)  still  awaits  passage  after  four  years  of
stalled  negotiations,  and  at  the  moment,  there  are  no  good  estimates  of  when  such
legislation will be approved and implemented. See Statement of the Record, Worldwide
Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.  Intelligence  Community,  U.S.  Director  of  National
Intelligence  (Jan.  2019)  For  the  foreseeable  future,  the  national  government  can  be
expected to continue to seek the passage and implementation of a revenue sharing law
to strengthen and encourage the development of this important sector.
Past  budget  laws  passed  by  Iraq’s  national  parliament  requiring  the  KRG  to
contribute  certain  export  earnings  in  the  country’s  overall  exports  (a  law  that  would
seem  to  validate  the  KRG’s  ownership  claims  to  Kirkuk  oil)  have  never  led  federal
authorities  to  export  Kirkuk-produced  oil.  In  so  doing,  Iraq’s  federal  authorities  have
severely limited Iraq’s northern export outlet via the Kurdish pipeline to Turkey. Breaking
the oil-stalemate that existed for years between the KRG and Iraq’s federal government
can  have  major  positive  ramifications  for  not  only  Iraq  and  its  oil  exports,  but  for  the
United States and other Western interests as well.
Terrorism and human rights issues
Despite  recent  developments  in  its  security  enforcement  efforts,  Iraq  remains  a
very  dangerous,  volatile,  and  unpredictable  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department
continues  to  strongly  warn  U.S.  citizens  against  traveling  to  Iraq.  See  Request  for
Administrative Notice, Iraq, at 3-5; Iraq Travel Advisory, U.S. Department of State (April
2022) The State Department assessed Iraq as being a critical-threat location for crime
directed at or affecting official U.S. interests. See Country Security Report at 2-3, U.S.
Dept  of  State  (Sept.  2021)  While  crime  statistics  and  crime  reporting  mechanisms  are
incomplete  and  inconsistent,  the  vast  majority  of  individuals  under  contract  with,  or
employed  by,  the  U.S.  Government  in  Iraq  are  required  to  travel  with  a  protective
security detail, so as to limit potential criminal threats against them. (id.)
Attacks against military and civilian targets throughout Iraq continue and include
sites  and  facilities  where  foreign  tourists  frequently  visit:  hotels,  restaurants,  police
stations,  check  points,  foreign  diplomatic  missions,  international  organizations,  and
other  locations  with  expatriate  personnel.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra;  Travel  Advisory-Iraq,  supra,  at  4-6.  The  U.S.  Embassy’s  ability  to  provide
consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the
security environment that still exists in Iraq. See Request for Administrative Notice, Iraq,
supra;  Country  Information:  Iraq,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (Nov.  2021);  Country
Security Report, supra.
Published  annual  threat  assessments  in  2022  predict  Iranian-supported  proxies
will launch attacks against  U.S.  forces and persons in  Iraq and  Syria,  and  perhaps on
other  countries  and  regions.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  5;
Annual Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, Office of the Director of
National Intelligence at 2-3 (Feb. 2022)
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed into  law  the  Visa Waiver  Program
Improvement and  Terrorist  Travel Protection Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the existing
Waiver Program. See Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 4-5. Under the 2015
amendment,  citizens  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Syria  are  ineligible  to  travel  or  be
admitted  to  the  United  States  under  the  Visa  Waiver  Program.  See  Request  for
Administrative  notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  6-7;  Visa  Waiver  Program,  U.S.  Customs  and
Border Protection (May 2022)
Iraq’s  human  rights  record  remains  a  poor  one.  Based  on  the  U.S.  State
Department’s  most  recent  annual  human  rights  report,  violence  continued  throughout
2017-2018, largely fueled by the actions of the Islamic state in Iraq (ISIS). See Request
for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  6;  Annual  Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.
Intelligence  Community,  supra. After liberating  all territory taken by  ISIS by  the  end  of
2017, Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) have continued to pursue and restrict ISIS forces still
active in Iraq.
Reports  of  human  rights  abuses  also  include  allegations  of  unlawful  killings  by
some  members  of  the  ISF  (particularly  by  some  members  of  the  Popular  Mobilization
forces),  torture,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities,
criminalization of libel and other limits on freedom of expression, widespread corruption,
greatly  reduced  penalties  for  so-called  honor  killings,  coerced  or  forced  abortions
imposed by ISIS on its victims, legal restrictions imposed on the freedom of movement
of  women,  and  trafficking  in  persons.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra; Iraq 2021 Human Rights Report, supra, at 3.
Current U.S. Relations with Iraq
The  U.S.  mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with  Iraq  and  the  Iraqi  people.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Iraq,  supra,  at  1-3,  In
coordination  with  the  Global Coalition  to  defeat  ISIS,  the  United  States  assisted  Iraq’s
efforts  to  achieve  the  long-sought  goal  of  liberating  all  of  Iraqi  territory  from  ISIS.  The
Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA) between Iraq and the United States provides the
basis  of  the  United  States’  bilateral  relationship  with  Iraq  and  covers  a  wide  range  of
bilateral issues, including political relations and diplomacy, defense and security, trade
and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,  services,  science,  culture,
education, and environment. (id., at 2)
U.S.  bilateral  assistance   to   Iraq   is   considerable   and   stresses  economic   reform,
assistance   to   vulnerable  groups,  and   democracy  and   governance.   See   U.S.  Relations
with  Iraq, supra, at 3-4. U.S. security assistance  supports  the  development of modern,
accountable,  fiscally  sustainable,   and   professional  Iraqi  military  resources  capable   of
defending  Iraq  and  its borders.  The  United  States has designated  Iraq  as a  beneficiary
developing   country  under  the   Generalized   System   of   Preferences  Program   and   has
been  proactive  in the  promotion  of  two-way trade  between the  United  States and  Iraq.
(id.)  Iraq   is   recognized   for  its  cooperative   efforts  with   international  organizations,
including   the   United   Nations,   the   International   Monetary  Fund,  the   World   bank,  the
International  Organization   for  Migration,   the   International   Labor   Organization,   and   the
Arab   League.   (id.)   Iraq   is  also  a   candidate   for  accession   to   the   World   Trade
Organization.
Endorsements  and civic  interests
Applicant is highly regarded by U.S. military customers, supervisors, colleagues,
and friends who know him and have worked with him in his linguist assignments.  U.S.
Army officers who worked with Applicant during the Operation Iraqi Freedom campaign
lauded  his  engineering  and  linguist  contributions  to  Coalition  Forces  operating  in  Iraq,
sometimes at great personal risk to himself and his family. (AEs A-B) Worthy of special
commendation  were  Applicant’s  communicated  insights  into  the  cultural  and  political
landscape of the Iraqi sectors he was assigned to serve.
Applicant has expressed a strong interest in aiding the U.S. Refugee Admissions
Program  and  has  applied  for  admission.  (AE  I)  He  listed  himself  as  a  carpenter in  his
application.
