Applicant  is  28  years  old.  She  has  never  married,  has  no  children,  and  no
military service.  She has a high school diploma and some college.  She is employed by
defense  contractors  as  a  Security  Officer/Site  Supervisor.  She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a
security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness to  abide by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  eight  creditors  totaling
approximately  $22,977,  for  delinquent  accounts  that  have  either  been  placed  for
collection or charged off.  Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.
Applicant’s  credit  report  dated  November  25,  2020,  confirms  the  indebtedness.
(Government  Exhibit  5.)  Since  October  2020,  Applicant  has  been employed  part-time
as a Security Officer for company 1.  Since April 2015, she has been working full time
as  a  Site  Supervisor  for  company  2.  Applicant  was  granted  an  interim  security
clearance in November 2020.
Applicant  attributes  her   financial  delinquencies  to   multiple   issues.    She   stated
that   there   was   a   period   of   time   when   she   lost   her  part-time   job   and   was   under-
employed.    She  also  describes a  period  in 2018  where she  did not receive a  paycheck
of  $1,000  to  $1,300  that she  was  expecting  during  an  approved  period  of  vacation.   Her
hours   were   reduced   to   part-time   for  two   months,   that  reduced   her   income   by  $200   to
$300  weekly.  She  also  incurred  unexpected medical expenses for plastic surgery after a
car accident in December 2016  that was not her fault.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
In  her  security  clearance  application  dated  November  2020,  and  during  her
personal  subject  interview  dated  January  2021,  Applicant  stated  that  she  was  in  the
process of setting up payments plans; or was in a payment plan; or was attempting to
(Government
locate  the  creditor’s  contact  information  to  establish  a  payment  plan.
Exhibits 3 and 4.)
In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  she  has  entered  into  payment
arrangements  with  all  of  her  debts  except  allegations  1.b.,  and  1.h.  In  regard  to  1.b.,
she stated that she has been unable to obtain the creditor’s information, and with 1.h.,
she  is  attempting  to  communicate  with  her  insurance  company  regarding  her  GAP
coverage   for   her car.   Applicant  provided  no   further  information.    (Government  Exhibit
2.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $8,772.  Applicant  stated  that  she  has  set  up  a  payment
arrangement.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  Besides this, there is no documentary evidence
to show that Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $2,568.  Applicant  stated  that  she  attempted  to  set  up  a
payment arrangement, but the collection agency cannot find her account.  (Government
Exhibit 2.)  There is no documentary evidence to show that Applicant has done anything
to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $1,212.  Applicant stated that she has set up a payment
arrangement.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  Besides this, there is no documentary evidence
to show that Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $482.  Applicant  stated  that  she  has  set  up  a  payment
arrangement.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  Besides this, there is no documentary evidence
to show that Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $349.  Applicant stated that a payment arrangement was
set  up.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  Besides  this,  there  is  no  documentary  evidence  to
show that Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $120.  Applicant stated that a payment arrangement was
set  up.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  Besides  this,  there  is  no  documentary  evidence  to
show that Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $904.  Applicant stated that a payment arrangement was set up.
(Government Exhibit 2.)  Besides this, there is no evidence to show that Applicant has
done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $7,590.  Applicant explained that her car was totaled through no
fault  of  her own.  She  has  GAP  insurance  and  is contacting  them about  the  coverage
payoff.  Besides this, there is no documentary evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
Applicant  claims  that  her  financial  situation  is  stable,  and  she  lives  within  her
means.  She stated that she is currently meeting all of her financial obligations on time.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
