Applicant  is  41  years old.  He  is married  and  has  two  children.  He  is  currently
attending on-line college courses working towards obtaining his Bachelor’s degree.  He
is employed by a defense contractor as an Inspector.  He is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his employment.
The SOR alleges that: a.  from July 1998 to about August 2021, Applicant used
marijuana  with  varying  frequency;  b.  from  about  2000  to  August  2021,  Applicant
purchased marijuana with varying frequency;  c.  from about April 2018 to about August
2021,  Applicant  purchased  and  used  marijuana  after  having  been  granted  access  to
classified information; d. in about August 2001, Applicant was charged with possession
of  marijuana.  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.
(Government Exhibit 1, Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant began using marijuana in high school.  Over the years, he has used it
for a period, and then stopped for a period, and then started using it again.  He has also
purchased  marijuana  both  in  the  edible  and  smoking  forms.  Applicant  normally  uses
marijuana at home to relax, as he stated that he does not consume alcohol.  Applicant
stated that between 2009 and 2018, he completely abstained from using marijuana.  He
stated  that  he  has  stopped  using  marijuana  and  last  used  it  in  August  2021.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant  has  worked  in  the  defense  industry  for  about  twenty  years.  He  has
used marijuana with varying frequency for recreational purposes for over twenty years.
He began working for his current employer in September 2008.  He has also purchased
marijuana  many  times  over  the  course  of  these  years.  In  2001,  he  was  charged  with
the illegal possession of marijuana.  On this occasion Applicant was driving home when
he was pulled over by the police for not wearing his seatbelt.  Applicant had a marijuana
cigarette in his glove box and was issued a citation.  He pled guilty to a misdemeanor
and was fined $300.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant first applied for a security clearance in 2009.  He was denied a security
clearance  in  September  2009,  as  his  interim  Secret  clearance  was  revoked.  He
believes  that  he  was  denied  his  clearance  because  he  did  not  turn  in  the  additional
information  requested  as  part  of  the  investigation  by  the  due  date.  He  stated  that  he
was afraid that he would be terminated from his job because of his history, but he was
not.  Applicant re-applied for a security clearance a year later.  This time it was granted.
For the past eleven years he has had access to classified information.  Applicant used
and  purchased  marijuana  from  at  least  April  2018,  to  August  2021,  after  having  been
granted access to classified information.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 3.)
Applicant  stated that  while  working  for his current  employer,  and at  times  using
marijuana,  he  has  had  access  to  classified  information,  and  for  about  the  past  eleven
years  there  have  been  no  repercussions  from  this  misconduct.  He  has  maintained
excellent credit, and is a homeowner, an active member of his church community, and
is  a  soon  to  be  graduate  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  Computer  Science.  (Applicant’s
Response to the FORM.)
Two  letters  of  recommendation  were  submitted  on  behalf  of  the  Applicant,  one
from the Vice President of Human Resources, who is also the Facility Security Officer,
and  the  other  from  the  President  of  the  company.  Both  individuals  acknowledge  that
Applicant  is  an  excellent  and  hard-working  employee.  Collectively,  they  state  that
Applicant  has  worked  for  the  company  for  fifteen  years.  From  the  beginning,  he  has
shown initiative to learn additional job responsibilities and an interest in advancing with
the company.  He is dependable, punctual, and maintains a heavy caseload.  He goes
above and beyond to train others in the department, while keeping up with his workload.
He started as a machinist and has been promoted to a management position.  He has
done  an  outstanding  job  in  his  new  position,  and  is  well  respected  by  his  colleagues.
(Attachments to Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
