Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  senior  control  systems  engineer,  who  has  been
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  June  2006.  He  has  held  a  Secret  security
clearance since November 2016 and seeks to retain it as a requirement of his continued
employment. (GE 1; Tr. 10-12)
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  1993.  He  was  awarded  a  Bachelor  of
Science  degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  June  2007,  a  master’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering  in  May  2009,  and  a  Ph.D.  in  electrical  engineering  June  2013.  (GE  1;  Tr.
12-15)  He  married  in  February  2002,  and  has  a  20-year-old  daughter,  an  18-year-old
daughter,  and  a  15-year-old  son.  Applicant’s  wife  is  employed  in  the  marketing  and
graphic design department at a major university. (GE 1; Tr. 15-16)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  self-reported  marijuana  use  on  his  November  3,  2021  SF-86.  (GE  1)
He  was  subsequently  interviewed  on  January  4,  2022,  by  an  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM) investigator regarding his marijuana use. (GE 3) He elaborated on
his  marijuana  use  in  his  September  6,  2022  SOR  Answer  as  well  as  during  his
testimony. The following summarizes that marijuana use.
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
about  January  1995  to  about  September  2021.  He  admitted  this  allegation  with
explanations. (SOR Answer) He smoked marijuana occasionally in his early 20s, but in
2002 he started a family and pursued a Ph.D. in electrical engineering that took him 13
years  to  complete.  Applicant  did  not  use  marijuana  again  until  mid-2017  when  it  was
legalized in his state of residence. (SOR Answer)
During  his  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  he  first  used  marijuana  “shortly  after
high school” and did not use it in a consistent pattern. While Applicant was attending a
community  college  before  transferring  to  a  university  where  he  was  awarded  his
bachelor’s  degree,  he  estimated  he  used  marijuana  “a  small  handful  of  times  .  .  .  not
very often.” (Tr. 21-23) When he transferred to a university setting, he “was just hanging
out  with  a  bunch  of  Engineers.”  Applicant  was  married  the  entire  time  he  was  in  a
university setting pursuing his Ph.D. Neither he nor his wife used marijuana during this
timeframe. Marijuana became readily available in Applicant’s state of residence after it
was legalized in 2016, and his wife’s girlfriends “started smoking it or they would have
like gummy edibles or whatever. It just sort of started surfacing through different social
networks.” It was “sometime, middle to the end of 2017,” that his wife came home with a
vape pen, “like an e-cigarette.” (Tr. 23-24, 31)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
about  2016  to  September  2021  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  He
admitted  this  allegation  with  explanations.  (SOR  Answer)  He  added,  “to  date  I  have
never been in possession of or had access to classified information.” (SOR Answer)
When Applicant’s wife came home with an electronic cigarette in 2017, she told
him that it was a hemp-derived version called Delta-8 THC and was legal in all states.
Applicant researched whether his wife’s claim, as well as the same claim of a friend he
played  hockey  with,  was  accurate  and  found  the  laws  to  be  conflicting.  He  used  the
ambiguity  of  the  laws to  justify  his  infrequent  use  of  these  products  and  began  to  use
them  sporadically  because,  as  a  writer,  its  use  would  help  him  to  write.  He  reiterated
and  acknowledged  that  was  a  “big  mistake”  and  stated  he  would  not  make  that  same
mistake again.  He only used these products with his wife or by himself. Applicant fully
admitted that he got it wrong. (Tr. 19-20, 24-25, 32, 39)
Applicant told the investigator during his January 4, 2022 OPM interview that he
planned to continue “to use this stuff” because he had convinced himself “that it wasn’t
a  big  deal.”  Applicant  acknowledged  this  response  was  “very  wrong”  and  is  “very
remorseful”  for  making  that  statement.  He  “mis-understood  the  severity  of  the  choice
and how the  Federal Government  would  see  this.”  He  credibly  expressed  that  he  was
sorry  and  stated that  “it  won’t  happen  again.”  (Tr.  20)  Applicant  said  that he  last used
Delta-8  THC  shortly  after  his  OPM  interview,  stating  that  he  was  “thick-headed”  not
realizing  the  “magnitude  of  this.”  Shortly  after  his  OPM  interview,  and  “maybe  eight
months”  ago,  Applicant  stopped  using  marijuana  completely.  In  his  post-hearing
statement, he clarified that he had not used any marijuana products over the past year.
He added that it was not hard for him to stop using marijuana nor does he miss using it.
(Tr. 25-27, 30; AE C)
Applicant  underwent  a  pre-employment  drug  test  when  he  was  initially  hired  as
an intern. He stated that his employer provides training but does not recall any specific
training  on  his  company’s  drug  policy.  He  realizes  Federal  law  “trumps”  state  law.  He
has  not  undergone  any  random  drug  screenings  since  he  began  his  employment  in
2006.  (Tr.  27-28)  When  Applicant  completed  his  November  3,  2021  SF-86,  he  stated
that he wrote songs and occasionally used marijuana to generate new ideas. He added
that if marijuana use became an impediment to obtaining his clearance, he would refrain
from  further  use  as  he  was  not  “very attached  to  it.”  He  testified  that  he  provided  that
response  because  he  was  mistaken  regarding  the  state  of  the  law  and  acknowledged
that he “could have made a better choice . . . and stopped right then.” (Tr. 20-21; GE 2)
Applicant stated that his wife no longer uses marijuana. She is very aware of the
problems  that  continued  marijuana  use  will  cause  for  his  career  and  their  collective
livelihood. She understands the requirement for Applicant to refrain from any drug use
and  is  very  supportive  of  his  total abstinence.  Apart from  a  fellow hockey  team  player
who  sometimes  uses  a  vape  pen,  Applicant  does  not  find  himself  in  any  situations
where marijuana is used. He is not tempted to use marijuana on the rare occasion his
hockey teammate uses marijuana.  (Tr. 30-31)
Applicant  “wholeheartedly”  understands  the  Government’s  zero  tolerance  policy
with regard to drug  use, even if a drug  is legal in one’s state of residence  under state
law  but  not  Federal  law.  (Tr.  32-33,  39-40)  Applicant  submitted  a  signed  statement  of
intent, dated January 29, 2023, to abstain from all hemp derived products regardless of
their legal status at state and Federal levels. He added that he has not consumed any of
these products  for the past  year and  is fully committed  to  maintaining  abstinence.  (Tr.
33-34;  AE  C)  Similarly,  Applicant’s  wife  submitted  a  signed  statement,  dated  January
29, 2023, expressing her committed support of her husband’s decision to abstain from
all hemp products. She  added  that she  discontinued  her use of all such products. (Tr.
33-34; AE B)
Post-hearing,  Applicant  submitted  an  email  referencing  research  he  conducted
on  the  legality  of  consuming  hemp  derived  Delta-8  THC.  He  stated  that  based  on  his
research  it was his belief  that Delta-8  THC  is  legal Federally  as well  as  in his state of
residence.  With  that  in  mind,  he  asserted  that  he  did  not  violate  his  employer’s  zero
drug tolerance policy as his employer’s policy only pertains to the consumption of illegal
drugs. Regardless, Applicant stated that he would abstain either way. (AE L)  Applicant
submitted a  second email  with  citations  and further discussion  supporting  his position.
(AE M) [Note – DOD policy does not permit the use Delta 8 THC. See discussion under
Analysis section infra.]
In response and in summary, Department Counsel stated that Applicant made no
reference to using Delta-8 THC when he completed his November 3, 2021 SF-86 nor in
his  January  4,  2022  OPM  interview.  She  noted  that  Applicant  specifically  referred  to
“marijuana”  and  “THC”  adding  that  he  expressed  an  intent  to  continue  using  it,  even
when  he  was  not  certain  whether  it  was  permissible  to  do  so  while  holding  a  security
clearance. She concluded that even if Applicant were to establish that he currently has
a  reasonable  basis  to  believe  that  the  product  he  was  using  was  legal  and  Farm  Bill-
compliant,  his  use  occurred  while  he  had  doubts  about  its  legality  and  reflected
adversely on his judgment. (GE 4; GE 5)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant falsified his April 22, 2016 SF-86 by deliberately
failing  to  disclose  his  past  marijuana  use  as  set  forth  in  SOR  ¶  1  when  he  answered
“no” to the question whether  he had illegally used any controlled substance  in the last
seven  years.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation  with  explanations.  (SOR  Answer)  He
stated when he completed his April 22, 2016 SF-86, he answered “no” because he had
not smoked marijuana for “approximately 14 years.” (SOR Answer) During his hearing,
Applicant reiterated that he did not use marijuana again until 2017 after it was legalized
in his state of residence. (Tr. 28-29)
Character Evidence
During his hearing, Applicant made a statement expressing his patriotism, love of
country,  and  motivation  for  going  forward.  His  family  on  both  sides  has  been  in  the
United  States  “since  before  the  Mayflower.”  He  has  built  his  entire  career  being  of
service  to  the  United  States.  He  is  very  proud  of  being  able  to  solve  problems  “that
nobody else could” on a Navy platform. He continues to work on programs that impact
the client’s wellbeing and would like to make more contributions, if allowed. He viewed
the outcome of this decision not only as being important to him and is family, but to the
country as well. (Tr. 20)
Applicant submitted a reference letter from his functional manager (FM), who has
known  Applicant  for  the  past  five  years,  first  as  his  technical  lead  and  later  as  his
functional  manager.  [FM  described  Applicant’s  projects,  past  and  present.  Identifying
these  projects  would  in  all  likelihood  provide  information  leading  to  the  identify  of
projects  and  parties  concerned.  Suffice  it  to  say,  the  projects  involved  are  of  critical
importance  and  vital  to  the  national  defense.]  Applicant  has  a  proven  track  record  of
working on highly sophisticated platforms and is the  “only member of [FM’s] team  that
has both capability and drive to address these efforts in the short time-frames that are
available on these  programs.”  Applicant  is assigned  to multiple  programs  as a  subject
matter expert. In this role besides learning the needed control technology and applying
his  technical  skills,  Applicant  serves  as  a  sounding  board  and  mentor  to  junior
engineers. (AE A)
Applicant’s  work  performance  evaluations  from  2017  to  2023  reflect  sustained
superior performance and provided specific examples of his contribution to the national
defense. (AE - I) For example, his 2023 evaluation states, “[Applicant] continued to be
sought by [client] for his control design expertise. [Applicant] is deeply respected for his
creativity,  intellect,  passion,  maturity,  and  good  nature  and  should  continue  to  be  a
tremendous  asset  for  [employer]  in  the  years  to  come.”
“[Applicant’s]  work  was
acknowledged  by  the  senior  leadership.  He  has  been  asked  to  obtain  a  clearance  so
that he can employ his work on several programs.” (Tr. 35; AE I)
In  addition  to  his  contribution  to  the  national  defense,  Applicant  likewise
contributes to his local community. He developed a passion for teaching while he was a
graduate  student  working  on  his  Ph.D.  He  participates  in  a  company-sponsored
program to encourage young people to pursue careers in science and engineering. He
developed  a  curriculum  and  leads  classroom  laboratory  sessions  for  elementary
students  in  electricity,  magnetism,  and  the  fundamentals  of  circuit  design.  Applicant
participates  in  career  days  where  he  gives  presentations  on  exciting  engineering
projects  to  middle  schoolers.  He  provided  a photograph  of  him  in  the  ‘teaching mode”
and  copies  of  numerous  thank  you  notes  from  students  who  benefited  from  his
teaching. (Tr. 38; AE J – K)
