Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations except ¶ 1.a. Applicant’s admissions
are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old. He earned an associate degree in 2017. He served on
active duty in the military from 1993 until he was medically retired in 2017. He has three
children from a former girlfriend. They are 28 and twins who are 17 years old. He pays
$1,000 a month in child support for the minors, which he has paid since 1995. He married
in  1997.  He  has  one  stepdaughter  who  is  27  years  old  and  six  children  with  his  wife
between the ages of 25 and 10. They all live at home. After retiring from the military, he
had  two  jobs  at  retail  stores.  He  also  worked  for  a  federal  contractor  on  a  short-term
contract. He was hired full time by the contractor in April 2019. He has been working on
the same project since then, but the contractor has changed. (Tr. 18-22, 30, 58-63, 90-
92, 99-102, 106)
Applicant  has  an  extensive  deployment  history  while  serving  in  the  military.  He
deployed eight times. He had four combat deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan. In 2007,
he suffered a concussion after being knocked unconscious when his platoon was hit by
an  improvised  explosive  device.  Numerous  soldiers  were  injured  and  there  were  two
fatalities.  He chose to stay with his platoon and not evacuate. He continues to suffer from
balance issues. Applicant also deployed to Macedonia  twice, Bosnia, and Kosovo. (Tr.
22-29; AE A)
Applicant  suffers  from  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  and  had  other
medical issues when he was discharged from the military. His veteran’s disability rating
is 100%. He admits he was in denial for a long time with regards to his PTSD. He had
suicidal ideations in 2008. He has been on medication since 2008. He was hospitalized
twice so his medication could be monitored and adjusted. Since 2017, he has been seeing
a counselor monthly. It was recommended he attend  grief counseling, but he does not
feel  capable  of  doing  so.  He  acknowledges  that  his  PTSD  caused  him  to  have  mood
swings and sometimes he was agitated. (Tr. 29-36, 93-99; AE J, K, L)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  had  financial  problems  since  he  got  married.
Applicant’s wife was responsible for handling the finances while he was in the military due
to  his  frequent  deployments.  In  the  early  2000s,  Applicant’s  identity  was  stolen.
Apparently, at some point, that issue was resolved. (Tr. 36-38)
Applicant testified that in 2014, he took over being responsible for his finances. He
and his wife had separated. He did not review his credit reports. He said he contacted the
creditors from whom he received letters. Applicant attended financial counseling through
the military in 2015. He was told to contact his delinquent creditors and make payment
arrangements. He said he could not afford to make payments. He sought assistance twice
through  the  military  emergency  relief  fund.  Usually  this  is  not  available  to  a
noncommissioned  officer,  but  exceptions  were  made  for  him.  He  was  also  asking  for
assistance from family members. He testified that he was paying some debts at that time,
but others had been sold to different creditors, and he got lost in attempting to determine
the current creditor. He claimed he disputed some debts, but never was contacted by the
creditor. He did not provide any documentary evidence to support his actions. (Tr. 37-40,
87-88, 103-105)
Applicant testified that in 2016 and 2017 he was still struggling financially and was
aware that he had delinquent accounts. He had received letters from creditors about the
delinquent accounts. He separated from the military in early 2017. Part of the separation
process is to attend financial counseling. Applicant stated he attended the counseling and
understood the issues he needed to address. He said he contacted creditors and began
making payments, but they wanted to increase the amounts, and he could not afford it.
(Tr. 38-40, 102, 104)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in July 2019. He did
not  disclose  any  delinquent  debts.  The  SOR  alleges  13  debts  totaling  approximately
$13,692. These debts are reported on credit reports from August 2019, February 2021,
May  2021,  and  January  2023.  Many  of  the  debts  dropped  off  the  more  recent  credit
reports due to age. Applicant did not pay any of them. (GE 3, 4, 5, 9; AE B)
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  aware  of  some  of  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR
because he was receiving notices from the creditors. He testified that, when he admitted
the debts on the SOR, he was acknowledging they were on his credit report, not that he
owed them. He said he did not recognize many of the debts. (Tr. 38-40, 51-53)
In  November  2019,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in
connection  with  his  SCA.  He  acknowledged  to  the  investigator  that  he  had  financial
issues. He was confronted with many of the debts alleged in the SOR. The only account
for which he offered an explanation was one owed to a landlord (SOR ¶ 1.a), which he
disputed.  The  landlord  claimed  he  owed  money  for  damages  when  he  vacated  the
residence.  Applicant  continues  to  dispute  that  debt,  but  it  remains  on  his  most  recent
credit report. He explained to the investigator that he did not plan to satisfy his delinquent
debts because he cannot afford to pay them because he is caring for ten children and
paying  child  support.  He  testified  that  he  received  a  promotion  and  now  has  more
resources with which to pay his debts. He admitted that due to the age of many of the
debts they  likely have fallen off of his credit report because they are  older than  seven
years and not because they were paid. (Tr. 41-50 186, 188-191; GE 2)
Applicant’s  wife  received  an  inheritance  from  her  father  when  he  passed  away.
Applicant believed it was about a year ago. He testified that she receives money each
month from the inheritance. She does not use the money to help Applicant resolve the
delinquent debts. He does not know the total amount of the inheritance or the amount of
the monthly payments. He will not ask his wife how much it is because it will result in an
argument. He will not ask her to help him pay the debts they accumulated. She does not
use the money to help him financially. They purchased a $415,000 house in December
2022.  She  made  the  down  payment,  but  he  does  not  know  that  amount.  His  monthly
mortgage  payment  is  $3,400.  He  has  two  car  loans  for  which  he  pays  approximately
$1,300 monthly. (Tr. 54-58, 115-121)
In  March  2023,  Applicant  signed  an  agreement  with  CC,  a  credit  consolidation
service. He testified he receives financial counseling through the service, which is part of
the agreement. He also has a payment agreement that requires he pay $384 a month to
address seven debts, including the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶1.a and 1.b. No other SOR
delinquent debts are included in this payment plan. Applicant is required to make his first
payment in April 2023. He believes the agreement extends for four to five years. Applicant
provided no other evidence of his plan or intention to resolve the remaining debts alleged
in the SOR. He said he will continue to pay on the agreement with CC so he can keep his
clearance. (Tr. 50-54, 121; AE B, C)
As part of the agreement with CC, Applicant provided a budget, which reflects his
monthly income and expenses. His income includes his military retirement, his salary from
his employer, and his disability payment. The original budget prepared by CC reflects a
deficit  of  $102  a  month.  An  adjusted  budget,  with  revised  amounts  to  be  paid  to
Applicant’s  creditors,  reflects  zero  disposable  income.  Applicant  explained  that  the
amount of $900 for miscellaneous expenses was too high and that would allow him more
disposable income. (Tr. 54, 123-127; AE C)
Noted on  Applicant’s budget was a  $100 payment to the IRS. He explained that
there was a period in 2014 when he and his wife were separated. He filed his income tax
returns as single and not jointly. He continues to file his tax returns as single. He owed
the IRS taxes and made payment arrangements. He testified he has had an installment
agreement since 2016. He believed his original balance owed was approximately $7,000
and  the  current  balance  is  around  $3,000.  He  said  the  IRS  captures  any  refunds  for
subsequent tax years and applies them to his tax debt. It is unknown if he owed taxes for
other tax years. (Tr. 132-135, 187; AE C)
After  receiving  the  SOR  in  July  2021,  Applicant  has  not  contacted  any  of  the
creditors in the SOR. He said he was generally aware the delinquent debts existed, but
he could not afford to pay them. (Tr. 115, 136-137)
In September 2010, while serving on active duty, Applicant was charged under the
Uniform  Codes  of  Military  Justice  Article  120-wrongful  sexual  contact  and  Article  93-
cruelty and maltreatment. Applicant was accused of wrongfully touching the breast and
kissing  the ear of one of  his subordinate  soldiers.  Applicant  testified  that  he  went  to a
court-martial but did not know if it was a Special Court-Martial or General Court-Martial.
He was represented by a judge advocate. He said he took the stand in his defense, and
it was a members trial. He said before the case was sent to the members, and while he
was on the witness stand, the military judge summoned both the trial and defense counsel
to the bench and dismissed the charges. Documentary evidence corroborates that there
was  an  investigation  conducted  regarding  the  alleged  incident  and  the  charges  were
reported  to  the  FBI  and  it  is  included  in  their  records  system.  No  other  supporting
documents from the court-martial were submitted. He denied the incident ever took place
and denied the charges. (Tr. 64-71, 137-153; GE 2, 6, 7)
Applicant explained the incident to the government investigator and testified about
it at his hearing. He stated that one of his female soldiers that was part of a specialized
group of women who deployed with units in combat so they could speak to local women,
requested to be transferred so she could be at a location where her husband was also in
country. He stated she was the best soldier of the four-women group and the platoon had
an upcoming mission, and she was essential. He denied her request. He said she then
went outside the chain of command without telling him and her request was also denied
when the commander asked for input regarding her request. Applicant believes the soldier
accused  him  of  the  offenses  in  retaliation  for  his  denial  of  her  request.  He  was
subsequently moved to a different unit. (GE 2)
Applicant provided a letter from a major who was a young lieutenant in 2010 and
served with him. There was no mention of the court-martial incident, but the major noted
how invaluable Applicant was to the unit. He explained their time together was physically
and emotionally challenging noting the loss of two platoon members and the evacuation
of three others in the first ninety days. The major commented on how important Applicant
was to the platoon ensuring they all remained focused on the mission. The major said as
a young lieutenant, he learned valuable lessons from Applicant that were transformational
in  how  he  approached  leadership  jobs  he  has  had  in  the  military.  He  considers  him
reliable,  candid,  and  trustworthy.  They  have  kept  in  contact  over  the  years.  He
recommended Applicant be granted a security clearance. (GE 2, 7; AE N)
In September 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic violence
and harassment. Applicant admitted he was angry with his wife, and he was yelling at
her, calling her names, and throwing things. This started when she picked him up in the
car  with  the  children.  He  was  hitting  the  dashboard  and  yelling.  The  confrontation
continued in the house. He admitted there was a confrontation, but he was vague about
the incident. During his hearing, he repeatedly stated he could not remember aspects of
the incident. He was able to recall that his wife had hit him, and that he pushed her to
move  her  away  from  the  door  that  she  was  blocking.  He  admitted  that  his  PTSD  has
caused him to have impulse control issues that have triggers. He does not know what the
triggers are but he can feel them coming on. He left the house, and his wife called the
police. He was going to stay at a friend’s house. He was arrested  on his way there. He
and his wife separated. (Tr. 71-83, 153-165; GE 8; AE D, E, F)
In October 2014, Applicant’s stepdaughter, the oldest child in the house, reported
to the police that Applicant had indecently exposed himself to her. He was arrested and
charged with indecent exposure. She alleged that he was scratching himself and exposed
his penis and testicles. Applicant admitted he was scratching himself, but it was on top of
his clothing and his genitals were not exposed. (Tr. 75-83; GE 8)
Reports  from  the  county  sheriff  confirm  the  above  two  arrests.  Applicant’s  FBI
report also reflects a charge for harassment in September 2014 and indecent exposure
in  October 2014.  In December 2014,  Applicant entered a  pretrial diversion  program  to
adjudicate  the  harassment  charge.  He  was  required  to  plead  guilty  to  the  charge  and
complete a domestic violence program. Applicant completed the terms of the agreement
and in February 2015, the order entered stated the parties had reconciled and the charge
was dismissed. (Tr. 165-166; GE 6, 8; AE D, E, F, G)
Applicant testified regarding the indecent exposure charge that at the time of his
case,  the  judge  called  each  of  his  children  into  his  chambers  and  spoke  with  them
personally. Applicant was not privy to their conversation. He testified that after the judge
spoke  to  each  child  the  charge  was  dismissed.  Applicant  said he never discussed the
allegation again and put it behind him. He believes his stepdaughter was angry about the
domestic violence incident, so she falsely accused him of the offense. He believes she
recanted her allegation to the judge. No other evidence was provided except the police
report and that it was entered into the FBI system. (Tr. 75-83, 166-172; GE 6, 8)
Applicant testified that he and his spouse remain married and their seven children
all  still  reside  at  home.  The  older  ones  have  jobs  and  receive  some  money  from  an
inheritance.  He  began  therapy  in  2018  for  his  PTSD.  He  has  learned  some  coping
mechanisms.  His  therapist  recommended  marriage  counseling.  He  said  they  attended
one family counseling session and went to marriage counseling twice. He stated that he
and his wife do not believe in marriage counseling, and it did not work out for them. (Tr.
179-185)
In April 2019, Applicant was fired from his employment at a big retail store where
he  worked  as  a  loss  prevention  employee.  He  observed  a  person  shoplifting.  It  is  the
store’s policy not to physically restrain people observed shoplifting. Applicant was aware
of the policy. After observing a shoplifter, he contacted his two managers, and confronted
the person who refused to stop. He and the managers escorted the person to an office.
The person attempted to leave, and a manager blocked the door and there was a scuffle
with  the  manager.  Applicant  stated  he  felt  a  sense  of  duty  to  come  to  the  aid  of  the
manager who was asking for help. He testified that he knew the policy not to physically
touch  a  person,  but  he  felt  it  was  the  right  thing  to  do  to  help  the  manager  when  he
requested help. He grabbed the person, pulled him off the manager, and forcibly placed
him on a bench. The office door was then opened, and the person rushed to leave when
he was met by police. Applicant was fired the next day for violating store policy. The two
managers  were  fired  from  that  store  but  were  relocated  to  a  different  store.  Applicant
testified that the store manager who had fired him wanted to rehire him, but he already
had a new job. (Tr. 84-87, 172-179)
Throughout the hearing, Applicant repeatedly could not remember or recall many
facts. His veteran’s disability rating does not reflect a traumatic brain injury or other issues
associated with memory loss. Although some of his memory issues may be attributed to
his PTSD, as to some, he appeared more evasive and not entirely forthcoming.
Applicant  provided  his  enlisted  record  and  performance  evaluation  from  2016;
documents from the Department of Veterans Affairs; a list of medications he is prescribed;
his resume; an article about service in Macedonia; award certificates; training certificates;
and  photographs  of  him  and  his  family.  Also  submitted  was  a  letter  from  his  wife,  a
character letter mentioned previously from his former lieutenant (now major), and a letter
from  the  director  of  the  office  where  he  presently  works.  The  director  stated  that
Applicant’s work is top-notch and there has never been a security incident. His work ethic,
attention  to  detail,  and  personal  behavior  are  among  the  most  professional  he  has
observed in his 32 years of federal service. (AE H-R)
Applicant  was  awarded  the  following  personal awards:  Bronze  Star;  Meritorious
Service Medal; Army Commendation Medal (five awards); Army Achievement Medal (six
awards)  Joint  Meritorious  Unit  Citation;  Presidential  Unit  Citation  (two  awards);  NATO
Medal and the Combat Medical Badge. He also earned numerous campaign and other
ribbons. (AE A, AE P)
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  be  considered  when  making  a  credibility
determination, in applying mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
