Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2005. He has held a security clearance since about 2005 or
2006.  He  has  a  General  Educational  Development  (GED)  high  school  equivalency
diploma.  He  is  engaged  to  be  married  and  has  two  children,  ages  seven  and  four.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 26-31, 46; GE 1)
Applicant is a native-born U.S. citizen. He travels extensively for work. He lives in
the United States when he is not on an overseas  assignment. His fiancée and his two
children  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Laos.  He  met  her  in  about  2014  when  he  was
working on a project in Laos. He talks with her daily over the Internet, and he spends as
much time as he can in Laos. Their two children were born in Laos. His fiancée also has
two older children from another relationship. Applicant provides her with regular support
of  at  least  $1,000  per  month  and  sometimes  much  more.  (Tr.  at  22-28,  31-38,  41-43;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, B, H)
Applicant’s  fiancée   used   to   work  in  a   restaurant.   She   then   tried   some   small
businesses.  She  now  relies   primarily  on   his   support.  Because   he   travels  so   much   for
work,  it  is  impractical  at  this  time   for  her  to   immigrate   with   the   children   to   the   United
States. She  is better off  in Laos with  her family and  support system  in place. (Tr. at 39-
45; GE 2)
Applicant  smoked  marijuana  when  he  was  in  high  school.  He  did  not  smoke  it
again until late 2010 or early 2011 when he was drunk at a New Year’s Eve party. He
held a  security  clearance  at  the time.  He tested  positive on a test administered by  his
employer.  As  discipline,  he  was  suspended  for  two  weeks  without  pay.  (Tr.  at  46-50;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3; AE F)
Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  has  not  knowingly  smoked  or  otherwise
ingested  marijuana  since  the  failed  drug  test  in  2011.  He  tested  positive  for  THC,  the
active ingredient in marijuana, in a test administered by his employer in April 2020. He
smoked  cigarettes  for years, and  for  some  time  before  the  failed  drug  test,  he  used a
vape pen to inhale the vapor of liquids, primarily with nicotine. He purchased vape liquid
without noticing that it was a cannabidiol or CBD. He lives in a state where marijuana is
illegal, so he did not expect a legitimate store to sell a product with marijuana or THC.
He used the vape to smoke the CBD product, which must have contained some amount
of THC, resulting in the positive test. (Tr. at 50-58; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE I)
The  Security  Executive  Agent  for  the  United  States  Government  provided
clarifying guidance concerning marijuana on December 21, 2021. Part of that guidance
addressed CBD products:
With  respect to  the  use  of CBD  products,  agencies should be  aware  that
using   these   cannabis   derivatives   may  be   relevant   to   adjudications  in
accordance   with   SEAD  4.   Although   the   passage   of  the   Agricultural
Improvement  Act of  2018  excluded  hemp  from  the  definition  of  marijuana
within  the   Controlled   Substances   Act,   products  containing   greater  than   a
0.3   percent   concentration   of   delta-9   tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  a
psychoactive  ingredient in marijuana, do  not  meet the  definition  of  “hemp.”
Accordingly,   products   labeled   as   hemp-derived   that  contain   greater  than
0.3   percent  THC  continue   to   meet   the   legal   definition   of  marijuana,  and
therefore  remain   illegal  to   use   under  federal  law  and   policy.  Additionally,
agencies should be  aware  that the  Federal Drug  Administration  does not
certify  levels of   THC in  CBD products,   so   the   percentage  of  THC cannot
be   guaranteed,  thus  posing   a   concern  pertaining   to   the   use   of  a   CBD
product under federal law.  Studies have   shown  that   some   CBD products
exceed   the   0.3   percent   THC  threshold   for  hemp,   notwithstanding
advertising  labels (Reference  F). Therefore,  there is a  risk that using  these
products  may nonetheless cause  sufficiently high  levels of THC to  result in
a   positive  marijuana   test   under  agency-administered   employment  or
random  drug  testing  programs. Should an  individual test positive,  they will
be   subject  to   an   investigation   under  specific  guidelines  established   by
their home agency.  (GE 5)
The  Substance  Abuse  and  Mental  Health  Services  Administration  (SAMSHA)
provided a warning about CBD products on July 24, 2019:
that   some   CBD  products’
Studies   have   shown
labeling   does  not
accurately  reflect  their  content.   Cannabis  based   products  containing   a
THC   level  greater  than   0.3%  on   a  dry  weight  basis  do   not  fall   under  the
Farm   Bill’s  definition   of  hemp   even   if  they   are  labeled   as  such.   In   one
study,  the   amount  of   CBD  in  69%  of  the   84   tested   CBD  products  was
inconsistent  with   that  on   the   label,   and   some   products  contained
unlabeled   cannabinoids,  including   THC  in   amounts   up   to   6.4   mg/mL.   As
such,  an   employee’s  drug   test  may  be   positive  for  the   THC  metabolite,
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid (THCA), due  to  THC in the
CBD product. (GE 6)
SAMSHA  further  advised  that  “federal  agencies  should  make  every  effort  to
inform  applicants  and  employees  of  the  risk  that  using  such  products  may  result  in  a
positive marijuana test.” (GE 6)
Applicant  passed  a  number  of  drug  tests.  He  is  now  extremely  cautious  when
purchasing vape products to ensure that he does not purchase any CBDs or marijuana-
related products. (Tr. at 58-59; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE G, I)
Applicant called  a witness, and he  submitted documents and letters attesting  to
his  excellent  job  performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  work
ethic, reliability, trustworthiness, dependability, honesty, judgment, and integrity. (Tr. at
60-63; AE D, E)
