In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.  His testimony at the hearing regarding SOR ¶¶
1.e, 1.f,  and 2.b  indicated that he admitted that he  was  arrested but  did not admit  the
conduct alleged. I have treated his answer to these allegations as denials.
Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  communications  instructor  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  April  2020.  He  graduated  from  a  military  academy  in  May  2007  and
served on active duty until November 2012, when he received an honorable discharge.
He  held  a  security  clearance  while  on  active  duty.  He  married  in  October  2009  and
divorced in August 2013. He has a 13-year-old daughter, who lives with his ex-wife.
In  January  2003,  while  Applicant  was  attending  the  preparatory  school  for  a
military  academy,  he  drank  too  much  beer  at  an  off-base  location.  He  became  ill  and
began  to  vomit  as  he  and  his  friends  were  returning  to  the  base.  He  and  his  friends
were held by the gate guards until the command duty officer took custody of them and
returned them to their quarters. Even though Applicant was underage, he was not cited
by  civilian  authorities  for  underage  drinking.  His  military  superior  restricted  him  to  the
base for 45 days for underage drinking. (GX 2 at 4; Tr. 18-19) This incident was alleged
in SOR ¶ 1.a.
While  Applicant  was  on  active  duty,  he  was  deployed  for  about  two  years  and
became intoxicated between missions once or twice a month. He had no alcohol-related
disciplinary actions while on active duty. (Tr. 20)
In June 2012, Applicant was arrested for assault and battery on a family member
and violating protective orders. The incident occurred when his wife began screaming at
him and trying to hit him, and he tried to fend her off. He believes that his wife’s actions
were her reaction to his decision to file  for divorce. (Tr. 21) She called the police, who
required that one of them leave the house. Applicant volunteered to leave. His wife filed
charges of assault and battery and  obtained a protective order to keep him away from
the  family  home  where  she  was  living.  He  violated  the  order  when  he  went  into  the
garage at night to retrieve some of his possessions. His ex-wife called the police, who
arrested him. (GX 2 at 14) The charges of assault and violating a protective order were
dismissed. (GX 8 at 9) Alcohol was not involved in this domestic scuffle or the  alleged
violations of the protective order.  (Tr. 33) These incidents were alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.b
and 2.c.
In January 2013, Applicant was again charged with violating the protective order.
He asked a friend to go to the house and retrieve some of his belongings. His ex-wife
notified  the  police  that  Applicant  had  violated  the  protective  order.  When  Applicant
learned that his ex-wife had contacted the police, he turned himself in. (GX 2 at 14, GX
3 at 16-18) He was convicted and sentenced to 30 days in jail, with 28 days suspended.
(GX 8 at 10). This incident was alleged in SOR ¶ 2.d.
In  March  2013,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI),  first
offense.  He  was drinking  at a  bar with  several friends  and  had  parked  in  an  area  that
was  a  tow-away  zone  after a  certain  time. Even  though  he  realized  he  was  drunk,  he
tried  to drive  to another parking area.  He  was  arrested  and  registered  a blood-alcohol
level  of  .14  percent  on  a  breathalyzer.  (Tr.  28)  He  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for
one  year  (suspended)  and  unsupervised  probation  for  12  months.  His  driver’s  license
was  suspended  for  one  year.  He  was  required  to  install  an  ignition  interlock  on  his
vehicle and to attend alcohol safety action program (ASAP) classes. (GX 5; GX 6 at 1;
Tr. 27-29) This incident was alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b.
In  March  2014,  following  a  positive  reading  on  Applicant’s  ignition  interlock,  he
was  referred  for  substance  abuse  treatment  and  counseling,  and  the  breathalyzer
requirement  was  extended  for  one  or  two  months.  He  was  required  to  attend  weekly
group  therapy  and  attend  two  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings  per  month.  He
completed  the  program  in  June  2014.  He  attributed  the  positive  interlock  reading  to
using  mouthwash  at  work  before  driving  home  after  work.  (GX  7  at  3;  Tr.  30)  The
interlock violation was alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c.
In July 2015, Applicant was charged with being drunk in public.  He was walking
alone at night after spending the evening  drinking  with friends. Someone accused him
of trying to break into cars. The police saw Applicant arguing with a group of people and
arrested him. (GX 2 at 10) At the hearing, he testified that he had consumed about four
drinks  and  was  “slightly  buzzed”  at  the  time.  (Tr.  33)  He  was  found  not  guilty,  but  he
was  ordered  to  seek  counseling  and  treatment.  (GX  6  at  3)  He  attended  weekly
counseling  from  August  2015  to  August  2016  and  completed  the  treatment  program.
(GX 1 at 45-46; GX 2 at 15) This incident was alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d.
In  March  2017,  Applicant  was  riding  his  bicycle  in  a  park  with  friends  when  he
was  stopped  by  police  because  he  and  his  friends  were  being  loud.  (GX  2  at  20)  He
was charged with being drunk in public. He testified that he had consumed one or two
drinks.  (Tr.  37)  He  was  found  guilty  by  the  general  district  court.  (GX  6  at  5).  He
appealed to the circuit court, pleaded not guilty, and the charge was dismissed. (GX 6 at
7.) This incident was alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e.
In   November  2017,  Applicant  was  charged   with   DWI,   2nd   offense   within  five
years.  He  and  a  girlfriend  spent an  evening  drinking  wine  at  her apartment. He left  her
apartment  late  in  the  evening, decided  that he  was too  intoxicated  to  drive, and  went to
sleep  in his car. A  policeman  found  him  sleeping  in his car. (GX 2  at 10) He was found
not guilty. (GX 6  at 9)  This incident was alleged in  SOR ¶  1.f.
In March 2019, Applicant was charged with being drunk in public and fleeing from
law enforcement officers. He went to an after-hours bar with a group of friends who had
gone to the bar on their bicycles. As the group walked toward their bicycles, policemen
who were in the parking lot approached them, and they ran in different directions. The
record  does  not  reflect  why  the  police  approached  them  or  why  they  ran  away.
Applicant  ran  toward  his  bicycle  but  was  tackled  by  a  policeman.  (GX  2  at  11)  At  the
hearing,  he  testified  that  he  had  consumed  about  six  beers  but  was  not  “overly
intoxicated.” (Tr. 40) The drunk in public charge was dismissed, and he was found not
guilty  of  fleeing  from  law  enforcement  officials.  (GX  6  at  11-15)  This  incident  was
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g.
In   December  2019,  Applicant  was  charged   with   DWI,   2nd   offense   within  5-10
years,  and  refusing  a  breathalyzer. He  was stopped  by police  because  a  taillight  on  his
car was out.  The  police  conducted  a  field  sobriety test, but Applicant declined  to  take  a
breathalyzer test.  (GX  2  at 11) The  results  of the  field  sobriety test  are not reflected  in
the   record.   He  testified   that  he   had   consumed   three   drinks.   He   was   held  in   jail  for   a
week  and   then   released   on   bail.  While   he   was  awaiting   trial,  he   was  required   by  the
court to  abstain from  alcohol and  seek counseling. (Tr. 49) Both  charges were  disposed
of by nolle  prosequi.  (GX 4; GX  6 at 17-20)  This incident was alleged in  SOR ¶  1.h.
In  March  2020,  Applicant  was  charged  with  assault  and  battery  on  a  family
member. He was sitting in his car with his girlfriend, now his fiancée, who had found a
condom  in  his  car  and  suspected  him  of  cheating.  She  started  screaming  and  hitting
herself in the face. At the hearing, his fiancée testified that she suffers from anxiety and
depression, and when she becomes upset, she tends to hurt herself by hitting herself in
the  face,  scratching  her  face  and  pulling  out  her hair.  She  testified  that  Applicant  was
shouting  at  her  and  trying  to  stop  her  from  hurting  herself.  Witnesses  to  the  incident
heard the shouting, saw her bleeding, and concluded that Applicant had injured her. (Tr.
60-61) The charge was nolle prosequi in January 2021. (GX 3; GX 8 at 13) This incident
was alleged in SOR ¶ 2.e.
While  Applicant  was  awaiting  trial  for  the  incident  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.e,  he
attended  AA  meetings  in  2020  and  had  a  sponsor.  He  is  not  currently  receiving  any
counseling or treatment. (Tr. 52)
Applicant testified that he now works in the sensitive area of cybersecurity and no
longer associates with his bar-hopping former associates. He now focuses on studying,
cybersecurity,  working out, staying  in  shape, and adopting  healthier habits.  (Tr. 54.) A
former supervisor who has known him for 10 years and was his direct supervisor for a
year described him as “a fabulous worker.” (GX 7 at 4)
The  mother of Applicant’s  fiancée has been a practicing physician  for 30 years.
She is familiar with Applicant’s past problems with alcohol. She has known Applicant for
six years and they have become close during the last five years. He stays with them for
about  one  week  a  month  because  they  live  close  to  his  work  site.  He  joins  them  for
meals and  recreation  time,  works from  their home,  and goes on  trips  with  them.  Even
when  they  go  to  restaurants,  Applicant  does  not  drink.  She  regards  Applicant  as  a
talented and dedicated person who has turned his life around. (Tr. 64-65)
In  February  2022,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  psychologist  in
accordance  with  a  CAS  request  for  a  psychological  evaluation.  The  DWI  and
breathalyzer-refusal  charges  were  pending  when  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  the
psychologist.  (Tr.  42-43)  The  psychologist  diagnosed  him  with  alcohol  use  disorder,
moderate.  The  psychologist’s  report  recites  the  numerous  specific  incidents  that  had
occurred  after  Applicant  had  been  drinking.  Applicant  admitted  during  the  evaluation
that  while  on  active  duty  he  would  consume  6-10  drinks  per  incident.  He  told  the
psychologist, “When I drink, I may drink a lot.” He also told the psychologist that he had
reduced  his  consumption  due  to  his  “legal  issues.”  The  psychologist  concluded  that
Applicant  had  not  been  able  to  abstain  from  alcohol  for  more  than  six  months  at  any
time  in  his  adult  life  despite  DWI  charges,  alcohol  education  courses,  treatment
programs, a requirement for monthly urinalysis tests, and a court order requiring him  to
abstain from alcohol until his court date for the charges of assaulting his girlfriend. (GX
7)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  disagreed  with  the  psychologist’s  statement  about  his
continued drinking. He testified that he stopped drinking in early 2020, but he admitted
drinking  a  champagne  toast  at  a  New  Year’s  Day  celebration,  but  he  did  not  specify
which  year  or  years  that  he  did  so.  He  believes  that  the  psychologist  interpreted  his
comment about drinking a toast on New Year’s Day  to mean that he continues to drink
regularly.  (Tr.  50)  The  psychologist’s  diagnosis  of  alcohol  use  disorder  is  alleged  in
SOR ¶ 1.i.
I have taken administrative notice that DSM 5 describes 11 diagnostic criteria for
alcohol use disorder. At least two of the diagnostic criteria must have occurred within a
12-month period to warrant a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder. The DSM also provides
that  an  alcohol  use  disorder  is  considered  to  be  in  sustained  remission  if  none  of  the
criteria have been met at any time during a period of 12 months or longer, except for the
criterion  of a  “craving,  or a  strong  desire  or urge  to  use  alcohol.”  The psychologist did
not specifically identify which diagnostic criteria he relied on to make his diagnosis.
In  March  2023,  Applicant  was  offered  employment  by  a  defense  contractor,
contingent on verification of a security clearance. (AX A) The employment offer was still
open at the time of the hearing. (Tr. 67)
