Applicant, age 30, is married and has no children. (Item 3 at pages 7, 28 and 30.)
He served in the U.S. Navy for more than seven years from about January of 2012 until
honorably discharged in September of 2019. (Item 3 at page 26.) Applicant has worked
for a Federal contractor since January of 2021. (Item 3 at page 15.)
Guideline D  - Sexual Behavior  & Guideline J  - Criminal Conduct
1.a. and  3.a. Applicant admits that in about October and November of 2012, he
engaged  in  criminal  conduct  by  paying  a  Philippine  prostitute  for  acts  of  sexual
intercourse in the Philippines, while on active duty with the U.S. Navy.
1.b.  and  3.a. Applicant admits that in about June of 2015, he engaged in criminal
conduct  by  paying  a  Panamanian  prostitute  for  acts  of  sexual  intercourse  in  Panama,
while on active duty with the U.S. Navy.
1.c.  and  3.a. Applicant admits that in about March of 2017, he engaged in criminal
conduct  by  paying  a  prostitute  for  acts  of  sexual  intercourse  in  Alabama,  while  on
temporary duty with the U.S. Navy.
1.d.  and  3.a. Applicant admits that in about August of 2018, he engaged in criminal
conduct by soliciting a prostitute for acts of sexual intercourse, while on temporary duty
with the U.S. Navy.
1.e. Applicant admits that in about June or July of 2019, he engaged in indiscreet
sexual conduct by using the sex toys of friends to masturbate, in their home and without
their knowledge.
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct  & Guideline K - Handling Protected Information
2.a. and 4.a. Applicant admits that in about January of 2018, he failed to timely
report  a  security  violation  to  the  National  Security  Agency  (NSA)  Security,  when  he
printed  out  and  removed  a  classified  SECRET  document  from  a  secure  space  and
brought it to his residence.
2.b. and  4.b. Applicant admits that in about March of 2019, he failed to timely report
a security violation to the National Security Agency (NSA) Security, when he brought an
unauthorized thumb drive inside his secure workplace.
2.c. Applicant admits that, on June 4, 2019, he falsified material facts during his
security  processing  interview,  when  he  failed  to  report  his  sexual  behavior,  noted  in
Subparagraphs 1.a.~1.d., above. Applicant blames his misconduct on “undiagnosed ADD
and Anxiety.”
2.d. Applicant admits that, on August 1, 2019, he falsified material facts during his
security  processing  interview,  when  he  failed  to  report  his  sexual  behavior,  noted  in
Subparagraphs   1.d.  and   1.e.,   above.   Applicant  again  blames   his  misconduct   on
“undiagnosed ADD  and Anxiety.”
