Under Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  six  delinquent  debts;  three  federal student
loans totaling $18,718; two private student loans totaling $5,111; and one consumer loan
for $793. (SOR ¶ 1.)  Applicant admitted those allegations. (Tr. 56-58.)
Applicant is 63 years old and has been married since 1983. He has no children.
He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from September 1979 to June 1991, when he
was  honorably  discharged.  He  had  a  security  clearance  in  the  Army  and  has  had
clearances most of his life. (GE 1; Tr. 26.) From August 2013 to August 2014, he attended
an out-of-state online college (the College) and earned an associate degree. (GE 1; Tr.
29, 38-39.) Since December 2022, he has worked as a lead cable technician for a defense
contractor. In that capacity, he installs cables for Government electronic equipment. (GE
1; Tr. 25-27.)
Applicant was unemployed from October 2015 to February 2017. During that time,
he collected unemployment and did ”side jobs.” He does not know his exact salary from
2017 on, but it was about $68,000 to $70,000 per year. He has received military disability
benefits since 2014. He has a 90% disability and receives $2,220 per month. (Tr. 28-29.)
His  spouse  works  full  time  for  a  Government  security  agency.  He  does  not  know  her
annual salary, but she is a GS-7 or GS-8 and has worked for that agency for about 10 to
15 years; she got that job in about 2008, “in that ballpark.” (Tr. 29-31.)
Applicant is not contributing to a 401 (k). He “had one a few years ago, but can’t
recall where it was at.” His memory “goes in and out cause [he] had two cuts on the back
of [his] head from a tree landing. That’s why [he gets] PTSD from the military.” He “also
passed out a few – about three months ago, two months ago. [He] had to go back to the
hospital cause  [he] fell in  the  tub  again and  [had] to go for another head  blood clot or
something . . . [His] memory is really, really short to certain things.” (Tr. 30-31.)
Applicant’s wife said he should retire, and he agrees with her. “[He] went to work
after [his] injury about two months ago . . . and thought [he] was okay. [He] stayed home
one day. The next day [he] went to work, [he] couldn’t find  [his] way to  work. [He] was
driving around on the highway and when [he] made it to work he came back home. [The]
next day . . . [he] went to work and everybody said . . . You’re not all here . . . something’s
wrong with you.” So, he saw a doctor about his memory. “They said I had a concussion.
So, I think retirement probably coming up on me real soon.” (Tr. 31.)
Applicant is not collecting Social Security. When he retires, Social Security and his
military disability will be his sources of income. He owns his home and pays a mortgage
of $2,400 per month. His monthly expenses in addition to his mortgage are about $1,000.
His net monthly remainder is about $2,000 to $2,500. He uses that to pay some bills and
maybe save for trips, “nothing big.” (Tr. 32-34.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e. Applicant testified about his student loans. By the date of GE 5
(April 25, 2019), all five student loans (three federal and two for his College) were past
due or in collections. By the date of GE 4 (January 8, 2020), all five student loans were in
collections. And by GE 3 (May 31, 2022), all five remained in collections. (Tr. 34-37.) The
three federal loans have the following Narrative Codes on the most recent credit report:
“Student Loan Assigned to Government Collection Account.” (GE 3.)
Applicant’s two College private loans were originated in 2013 and 2014, which was
the period he was working on his associate degree. Those loans funded that degree. (Tr.
38.) He was asked what led him to believe that the GI Bill covered those loans. “I got a
call . . . if I wanted to go to school, the Government would pay for my schooling.” He filled
out an application and provided information to the school. He could not recall notifying the
school  in  a  formal  writing  that  the  GI  Bill  would  cover  his  loans.  He  remembered:
“[S]omeone was telling me you’re prior military, they’ll pay for your school. So I filled out
a lot of papers, faxed a lot of papers back, and before you know it, I was in school.” (Tr.
39.) He could not answer what portion of his service made him eligible for the GI Bill. He
assumed it was his active duty. He did not remember sending in any military documents
confirming he was eligible for the GI Bill. (Tr. 40-41.)
Applicant first became aware that the GI Bill did not cover his loans or they were
delinquent in 2014, 2015, or 2016 when he received a telephone call. He thinks he made
a few payments over the phone. He thought he set up a payment arrangement but could
not  recall  what  the  monthly  payment  was.  He  stopped  making  payments  because  he
called the College and “the school is not there anymore . . . [he] thinks they closed down.”
He could not recall to whom he was making payments. He did not stop making payments
because he thought the College was out of business. He stopped because he “didn’t get
no more payment or way to make payments.” He still has not. (Tr. 41-44.)
Applicant  was  asked  about  GE  2,  his  November  21,  2019  Personal  Subject
Interview  (PSI).  He  agreed  that  in  that  interview  he  disagreed  with  the  delinquent
accounts,  because  he  thought  the  GI  Bill  paid  for  his  education.  He  confirmed  that  in
November  2019  that  is  what  he  thought.  He  also  agreed  that  he  just  testified  that  he
learned that in 2015, but he did not know the exact dates. He confirmed that at the time
he signed up for his schooling, he was told that the GI Bill would cover all costs. When
“they sent me the paperwork to go to school, I was assuming that was from – that was for
my GI Bill or Government paying for my school.” (Tr. 44-45.)
Applicant confirmed his usual practice: “When I receive a bill – I make the payment.
If I didn’t receive a bill, I didn’t make a payment. As far as my memory is, I still haven’t
received any more payment, so I don’t know where to go from there talking about 2015.”
He was asked about the current status of his loans. He said: “The current status is does
a bill still need to be and that I probably need a, I don’t know, a  statement, numbers, or
something, or who to send it to to confirm that they receiving this payment or just sending
it to anybody.” He confirmed that his residence has been the same since 2010, and he
has not changed his address since then. (Tr. 45-46.)
Applicant tried to contact the College to clear the matter up. He “can’t seem to get
anybody – to confirm or call me back or – anything.” He is definitely willing and able to
satisfy  his  financial  obligations.  He  believes  his  financial  situation  is  under  control.  He
contacted  his  military  contact,  but  they  just  signed  him  up  for  another  university.  He
attended another university part-time from 2014 to 2017 and again in 2018. He thinks he
paid for that himself or the GI Bill did. He is not sure. (Tr. 47-49.)
SOR ¶ 1.f. Applicant testified about this delinquent consumer loan for $793. He
recognized this debt and said he had paid it off. (Tr. 51-52.)
Applicant  has  filed  his  2022  federal  and  state  tax  returns.  He  has  never  been
behind on his tax payments or has had any tax delinquencies. (Tr. 52.)
The online college on which Applicant earned his associate degree closed its
online instruction effective May 20, 2016. December 17, 2020
https://.federalstudentaid.gov.
The student loan payment pause began in March 2020. The student loan payment
pause  is  extended  until  the  U.S.  Department  of  Education  [DOE]  is  permitted  to
implement the debt relief program or the litigation is resolved. Payments will restart 60
days later. If the debt relief program has not been implemented and the litigation has not
been resolved by June 30, 2023 – payments will resume 60 days after that. We [DOE]
will notify borrowers before payments restart.
<https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19>  https://studentaid.gov>covid-
19/public-service-loan-forgiveness <https://studentaid.gov%3ecovid-19/public-service-
loan-forgiveness> .
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must consider all  available and  reliable
information  about  the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in making  a
decision.  The   protection   of   the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.   AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel . . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F: Financial Considerations
