Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in his Answer. He is 25 years old. As
of his February 2022 security clearance application (SCA), he was not married, and he
did  not  have  any  children.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2016  and  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in December 2020. He has worked as an engineer for his employer,
a  DOD  contractor,  since  December  2021.  He  has  never  held  a  security  clearance.
(Items 1-3)
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from approximately September
2014  to  October  2022.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  He  used  it  recreationally  and  in  states  where
recreational marijuana use is legal. He used it one to three times weekly while attending
college, and then during weekends in social settings. As of the date of his SCA, he used
it “rarely now, on holidays. [sic] major events, or visiting friends.”  He estimated that he
used  it  approximately  500  times.  He  stated  that  his  use  of  marijuana  neither  impaired
his  ability  to  graduate  from  high  school  or  obtain  his  bachelor’s  degree,  nor  has  it
hindered  him  professionally.  He  obtained  it  from  friends,  or  he  purchased  it  in  states
where  it  is  legal,  and  he  used  it  with  friends.  He  intends  to  continue  using  marijuana,
citing to both his intention to use it infrequently as well as its medicinal benefits. (SOR ¶
1.b) (Items 1-3)
Applicant  also  used   hallucinogens,   including   psilocybin  mushrooms  and   LSD,
with   varying   frequency   from   approximately  October  2014   to   December  2021.   (SOR   ¶
1.c)   He  used   them   recreationally,   approximately  one  or   two   times   yearly   for  a   total  of
around  10  times,  in  small  group  settings, at  live  music  concerts, and  in  private  settings
for  medicinal  purposes.   He  stated   in  his  SCA  that   he   used   them   “for  positive   life
experiences,   mental  health   therapy,   and   general  well-being,”   and   he   found   them   to
“increase   creativity,  connectivity,  and   short-term   happiness.”   He  obtained   them   from
friends,  or  he  purchased  them.  He  intends  to  continue  using  hallucinogens,  citing  to  his
intention   to   use   them   in  a  professional   setting   as  a   safe   and   effective   method   for
encouraging  positive mental health,  as  well as his  intention  to use them  rarely  outside  of
such a setting.  (SOR  ¶  1.d)  He  indicated during his April 2022  background interview that
he  socializes  with individuals who use drugs. (Items  1-3)
Applicant  also  used  stimulants  not  prescribed  to  him,  including  Adderall  and
Vyvanse, with varying frequency from approximately October 2017 to November 2020.
(SOR  ¶  1.e)  He  stated  in  his  SCA  that  he  used  Adderall  “rarely,”  one  to  three  times
yearly  for  a  total  of  seven  times,  “to  increase  focus  in  order  to  complete  school  work
[sic] faster than I normally would.” He indicated during his background interview that he
also  used  Vyvanse  four  times  from  2017  to  2020  for  the  same  purpose.  He  obtained
Adderall from an individual for whom it was prescribed, and he obtained Vyvanse from a
fraternity brother. He stated in his SCA and Answer that he had not used Adderall since
graduating  from  college  and  he  had  no  intention  to  use   such  substances in   the  future.
(Items  1-3)
