Applicant is 44 years old.  He is married with five children.  He has a high school
diploma  and  some  college.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  Engineer.
He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  eleven  delinquent  accounts
totaling  in  excess  of  $20,156.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated September 7, 2007; February 17, 2018; September
30, 2021; April 22, 2022; and March 31, 2023, confirm the indebtedness.  (Government
Exhibits 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8.)  Applicant served in the U.S. Army from September 2000 until
March  2006,  and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  began  working  for  his  current
employer in October 2017.
Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  problems  resulted  from  an  unexpected  55
percent  salary  reduction  at  work.  His  loss  of  income  caused  him  to  quit  his  job  and
move in order to find a job that paid enough to support his family.  Applicant’s wife lost
her job about the same time.  Applicant explained that as a parent with a large family he
felt compelled to make some difficult decisions to make sure that he fed and took care
of his family’s needs.  As a result he provided for his family and did not pay his bills.  He
stated that he is currently working with a credit repair company to begin to resolve his
credit card debts.  He plans to start paying the debts starting with the lowest balances
first.  Applicant  attached  to  his  Answer  to  the  SOR  an  email  from  a  credit  repair
company showing a payment that Applicant made to a creditor.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $8,998.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $6,514.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $806.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $790.  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $695.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $523.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $439.  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $423.  The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $361.  The debt remains owing.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $220.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $387.  The debt remains owing.
