This is a case under Guidelines F, B, and E. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  46  years  old,  married  (December  2002),  with  a  son  age  9  and  a
daughter age 11. His spouse was born in Colombia and is a citizen of Colombia and the
United States and a resident of the United States.  He attended community college from
January  2008  to  June  2012,  from  September  2014  to  December 2014,  and  from  April
2020 to June 2021. He did not earn a degree but was awarded a certificate in electronics
and troubleshooting. From February 2006 to March 2017 and from February 2018 to the
present, he has worked for the same federal defense contractor. This is his first national
security clearance investigation. He was unemployed from March 2017 to February 2018.
He explained the reason for his unemployment as follows:
My spouse, who  is from  . . . Colombia  South  America  wanted  to  return to
her home  country to  try  to  get help from  [sic] our autistic daughter  [then  five
years old]. I  did  it to  try to  get  help for my  daughter and  try to  alleviate  the
tension and strain it caused on my relationship  with my spouse  at the time.
(Ex. 3.)
Guideline   F.   Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  seven
delinquent  accounts  that  have  been  charged  off  or  are  in  collections  totaling  $29,037.
Those debts became delinquent between November 2017 and July 2019. (Exs. 1 and 6.)
He admitted those allegations. (Ex. 2.)
Applicant identified each of the seven accounts in his SCA. For each of the seven
delinquent accounts, he  recited as  a  reason his above  explanation  for his  one  year of
unemployment. To that explanation, he added that he let the accounts be charged off or
go into collection “as an act of desperation on our part . . . [and in] hindsight I do regret
making bad judgment to do that.” For all but one account, he stated “I am in the process
of resolving this debt.” For SOR ¶ 1.e, he stated that it was paid in full on June 11, 2021.
(Ex. 3.) With his Answer, he submitted a document showing that four of the SOR accounts
have been enrolled with a debt relief agency. That document does not show that those
accounts (which includes SOR ¶ 1.e) have been resolved. (Ex. 2.)
In Applicant’s August 2, 2021 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), he provided more
detail about his financial problems. His son was born prematurely on December 19, 2013.
As a result, his son was in a neonatal care unit from December 2013 to September 2014.
He began to work part time so he could spend time with his son in the hospital. He incurred
debts and living expenses that his part-time paycheck could not cover. His debts became
delinquent  when  he  and  his  wife  went  to  Colombia  in  March  2017  to  seek  medical
treatment for his daughter (then five years old) who was autistic. Her medical treatments
left very little money to pay bills. He is currently seeking help from a credit counseling and
consolidation agency and intends to pay his overdue bills. (Ex. 5.)
Guideline  B. Under Guideline B, the SOR alleged that Applicant’s: (1) spouse is
a dual citizen of Colombia and the United States; (2) spouse owns property in Colombia
with an approximate value of $50,000; and (3) mother-in-law, sister-in-law, and brother-
in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Colombia.  (Ex.  1.)  Applicant  admitted  the  first
allegation but said that his spouse last visited Colombia in April 2019 and does not travel
there regularly. He admitted the second allegation but said his spouse only made a down
payment of $20,000. He admitted the third allegation. (Ex. 2.)
Applicant’s  last  trip  to  Colombia  was  in  2017.  The  investigation  disclosed
Applicant’s contacts with Colombia and with his Colombian mother-in-law, brother-in-law,
and sister-in-law. His mother-in-law is a homemaker. She is not employed outside of the
home.  She  has  no  connections  with  the  Colombian  government,  its  military,  or  any
business or entity owned by the Colombian government. His spouse is in telephonic or
video  chats  with  her  mother  about  weekly.  He  also  participates  briefly  in  those
communications. (Exs. 4 and 5.)
Applicant’s Colombian brother-in-law and sister-in-law are employed by the same
self-owned  software  company.  They  have  no  connections  with  the  Colombian
government, military, or any business or entity owned by the Colombian government.  He
and his spouse speak to those in-laws by telephone about weekly. None of his in-laws
receive financial support from Applicant; nor does he receive any financial support from
them. (Ex. 4 and 5.)
Applicant  explained  his  spouse’s  ownership  of  real  property  in  Colombia.  The
property was purchased in 2021. It is not important to his overall financial situation. It was
purchased to have as a place to vacation when he retires. He is still making payments to
own the home. He is not vulnerable to foreign influence because of the property. He plans
to maintain ownership, because he wants to keep the property as a  vacation home for
retirement. It is not in his name; it is in his spouse’s name, and her funds were used to
make a down payment. His earnings were not used for the purchase of the property.  (Ex.
4.)  Applicant  was  asked  why  he  purchased  this  property  having  unpaid  debts.  He
answered that it was an investment for the future. (Ex. 5.)
Guideline  E. Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant received written
reprimands for performance or conduct issues from his employer in February 2017, April
2019, and June 2019. (Ex. 1.) He admitted those allegations. (Ex. 2.) He discussed those
issues in his PSI.
The first incident was in February 2017. He was issued a written warning for failure
to  follow  management  expectations  for  an  absence  notification.  He  agrees  with  this
information. He failed to notify his supervisor, because he had to rush to the emergency
room (ER) with his son (then three years old). Now he sends a quick text if he is going to
miss work. His supervisor is aware of this incident. (Ex. 5.)
The second incident was in April 2019. He was issued a written warning for failure
to comply with management for not completing training within the regular time frame. He
agrees with this information. He unintentionally missed the training, because he did not
have the training assigned to complete it. He was not at fault. His supervisor is aware of
this incident. (Ex. 5.)
The third incident was in June 2019. He was  issued a written violation with one
day  of  work  without  pay,  for  failing  to  follow  policies,  procedures,  and  processes  for
checking  out  and  in  tools.  He  agrees  with  this  information.  He  was  falsely  accused  of
removing  tools  from  a  locked  area  that  he  did  not  have  access  to.  There  have  been
changes as he was not at fault. His supervisor is aware of this incident. (Ex. 5.)
Applicant did not disclose these three incidents in his SCA or in his responses to
interrogatories.  (Exs.  3  and  4.)  He  discussed  these  incidents  in  his  PSI  after  being
confronted with them by the investigator. He explained his omission as an oversight. (Ex.
5.)
Administrative Notice
The Government has requested that I take administrative notice of facts about the
Republic  of  Colombia.  (Ex.  9.)  Applicant  did  not  object  to  that  request.  Exhibit  9  is
admitted. I have taken administrative notice of the facts contained in Exhibit 9. Of note is
that Colombia is one of the oldest democracies in Latin America. The United States is
Colombia’s largest trading partner. Colombia has been plagued by transnational criminal
and narcotics trafficking organizations, terrorist organizations, and armed criminal gangs.
Colombia also continues to have human rights problems. Any person born in Colombia
may be considered a Colombian citizen, and dual U.S.- Colombian citizens are required
to present a Colombian passport to enter and exit Colombia.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s   suitability  for   a   security   clearance,   an
administrative   judge   must   consider   the   adjudicative   guidelines.   These   guidelines   are
flexible  rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must consider all  available and  reliable
information  about  the  person,  past and  present,  favorable and  unfavorable, in making  a
decision.  The   protection   of   the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.   AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that   “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
