In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 54-year-old calibration technician employed by defense contractors
since October 2010. He was employed as an electrician by another defense contractor
from September 2009 until he was hired by his current employer.
Applicant served in the Army National Guard from June 1988 to January 1990 and
received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from
February 1990 to September 2009 and received an honorable discharge.
Applicant  married  in  December  1992  and  has  four  adult  children.  Three  are
biological  children  and  one  is  adopted.  (Tr.  20)  He  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
criminal justice in June 2013. He held a security clearance in the Navy, and he retained
it as an employee of a defense contractor.
In  2008,  while Applicant  was  on active duty in  the  Navy, he  was  involved  in an
argument  and  threatened  to  choke  a  coworker who  blamed  him  for shoddy  work on  a
project that was found to be deficient. (Tr. 23) In 2009, he had an altercation with another
coworker, choked him, and hit him repeatedly. (Tr. 24) He was sent to a Navy hospital for
assessment,  assigned  an  anger-management  counselor,  and  required  to  attend  six
anger-management sessions over a period of two months. (GX 3 at 2; Tr. 22)
Applicant was assessed in a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facility
during his out-processing from the Navy. He was questioned about the incident in 2008,
and was diagnosed with bipolar mood disorder and suicidal tendencies. (Tr. 25; GX 4) He
was prescribed medication for depression, but discontinued it because it caused lethargy,
agitation, anxiety, and irritability, and made him difficult to focus on his tasks at work. He
informed  the  VA  providers  of  these  symptoms,  and  they  advised  him  to  monitor  his
depressive symptoms and restart the medications if needed. (GX 3 at 2.)
At the hearing, Applicant described the period from 2011 to 2013 as “probably the
darkest times of [his] life.” His father’s health  began to decline in 2012, and he passed
away in 2013. After Applicant’s father passed  away in 2013, he experienced  increased
depression, and he started having auditory hallucinations of his father’s voice, questioning
his  worth  and  telling  him  to  kill  himself.  His  VA  health  providers  diagnosed  him  with
paranoid  personality  disorder  and  recommended  inpatient  admission,  but  he  declined.
Eventually, His VA health providers prescribed a medication that reduced his depressive
mood and auditory hallucinations. (GX 3 at 2; Tr. 29-30) When Applicant’s assigned VA
physician was assigned to a different location, Applicant stopped taking his medication
for a while, hoping to  see his assigned physician again or receive the same treatment
from another VA physician. (Tr. 32)
In February 2014, Applicant was at a gas station when another driver accused him
of cutting him off at the  gas pump. Applicant, who was still in his vehicle, rolled up his
window, trying to avoid conflict. The other driver was infuriated and began hitting the hood
of Applicant’s car. At this point, Applicant exited his car and had an altercation with the
other driver, which was quickly broken up.
After the altercation, Applicant was upset and heard voices telling him to look out
for himself. He went into a Navy Exchange store, attempted to shoplift some expensive
headphones and two candy bars, and was arrested. While awaiting trial, he self-admitted
himself  into  a  VA  mental  health  facility  and  was  diagnosed  with  mood  adjustment
disorder, moderate to severe depression, and borderline bipolar disorder. In June 2014,
he was convicted of stealing government property, a misdemeanor, fined $250, placed
on probation for six months, and required to continue mental health treatment as directed
by his probation officer. (GX 5; GX 6; GX 7) The VA diagnosis is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a.
The court-ordered mental-health treatment is alleged twice in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c.
In March 2014, Applicant and his wife had an argument as he attempted to explain
to her that his medications made him feel less social when he was in public. After his wife
told him  to  “just  man  up,” he  went for a  drive  in his truck and was beset with negative
thoughts and hallucinations that told him to drive off the road. He drove into a ditch and
suffered minor injuries. Highway Patrol officers saw the vehicle in the ditch and issued
him a warning, but he was not charged. This incident is not alleged in the SOR.
Applicant notified his VA providers of the March 2014 incident, and they prescribed
a  medication  that  helped  alleviate  his  auditory  hallucinations.  (GX  3  at  3)  During  an
evaluation in June 2014, he told his providers that his angry outbursts began in his early
20s and were occurring two or three times a week and that he had homicidal thoughts
about people who had wronged him. (Tr. 33-36)
In April 2016, Applicant stole baseball and football cards from a military exchange
that then took them to the customer service office for a refund. At the hearing, he testified
that  he  did  not  know  why  his  took  the  cards.  He  denied  that  it  was  prompted  by
hallucinations.  He  was  not  on  medications  at  the  time.  (Tr.  41)  He  was  charged  with
stealing government property of a value less than $1,000. On motion of the government
attorney, the charges were dismissed. (GX 6) This incident is not alleged in the SOR.
Applicant stopped taking medications or receiving treatment for almost three years.
He went to a VA medical center in early 2019 and was diagnosed with adjustment disorder
with mixed features of anxiety, depression, and insomnia. He attended monthly therapy
sessions for about nine months, when the funding for the program was cut. (Tr. 43) He
began seeing a VA provider every three to six months until February 2021, when he was
unable to obtain appointments for further face-to-face treatment. He was offered virtual
appointments but declined them. (Tr. 44). He continued to have short telephonic sessions
in which the VA provider confirmed that he had the correct prescription and renewed it.
His  treatment  in VA medical  facilities  from  April 2011  to  September 2019  is alleged  in
SOR ¶ 1.d.
At  the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed
psychologist in February 2022. The psychologist concluded that Applicant’s temperament
is  more  stable  when  he  takes  his  medications,  which  reduce  his  depressive  mood
symptoms and tendency toward aggressive reactions. He noted that Applicant was mostly
compliant  with  his  medications  but  that  he  occasionally  forgot  to  take  them  or
procrastinated when a refill was needed. Applicant told the psychologist that he stopped
taking his medications for long periods of time during 2015 and 2016. The psychologist
found that Applicant has mild depressive episodes that may last for several hours up to
three or four days, but they are manageable and do not cause functional impairment. He
also found that Applicant’s auditory hallucinations were remitted when he was placed on
medication.
The psychologist considered whether Applicant suffers from a bipolar disorder, and
he concluded that Applicant does not have the manic episodes that are an element of a
bipolar  disorder.  He  noted  that  Applicant  shows  insight  and  awareness  of  his
psychological  problems  and  has  been  able  to  clearly  identify  how  they  have  caused
impairments in his personal and occupational environments. He diagnosed Applicant with
intermittent  explosive  disorder  and  persistent  depressive  disorder,  mild  to  moderate.
According to DSM-5, aggressive outbursts in intermittent explosive disorder have a rapid
onset and typically last less than 30 minutes. The outbursts commonly occur in response
to a minor provocation by a close intimate or associate.
The   psychologist   contacted   two   of   Applicant’s  supervisors.   One   has   known
Applicant  for  8-9   years  and   the   other  has  known   him   for  more   than   10   years.   Both
supervisors  spoke   highly  of  Applicant’s  competence   and   dependability.  Neither  was
aware  of any interpersonal issues between  Applicant and  his coworkers. Both  believed
that  Applicant’s  judgment,  reliability, and  trustworthiness  were  intact and  recommended
that Applicant be  allowed to retain his security clearance. (GX 3 at 6)
The  psychologist  concluded
reliability,  and
trustworthiness  were  currently  intact,  but  that  “his  emotional  stability  was  highly
vulnerable to external pressures or circumstances.” He also concluded that  Applicant’s
that  Applicant’s
judgment,
stability  was  “not  likely to  be  highly resilient or  capable of  enduring  through  significant
stressors and may result in him either experiencing deepening depression or aggressive
behaviors in the future.” (GX 3 at 7) The evaluation by the psychologist is alleged in SOR
¶ 1.e.
In March 2023, Applicant visited a VA facility and announced that he wanted to
restore his self-confidence, decrease angry thoughts, and have better motivation to stop
his aggressive behavior that had been escalating over the past year. (GX 9 at 16) His “VA
Problem  List”  reflected  treatment  for  “adjustment  disorder  with  depressed  mood.”  His
treatment  notes  for  April  2023  stated,  “The  patient  reported  some  symptoms  of
depression; symptoms are not consistent with a major depressive episode.” (GX 9 at 9)
Applicant  testified  that  the  last  time  he  thought  about  harming  himself  was  in
December 2018. He admitted that he had “at least three” angry episodes,  over the past
year. He described these episodes as “being  angry for at least a  minimum  of 15  to  20
minutes.” His angry periods sometimes last three or four days, but they cycle on and off
rather than run continuously. Many of his angry episodes are prompted by his inability to
perform  to  the  standards  he  has  set  for  himself.  He  testified  that  during  his  angry
episodes, he stops talking, becomes reclusive, and does not engage with others. He has
learned to channel his anger in a different direction by talking out loud, writing, walking,
and focusing on positive events. (Tr. 48-52)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  decided  that  “sitting  and  contemplating  hurting
yourself  and  hurting  others  is  no  way  to  live.”  He  now  focuses  on  a  good  marriage,  a
“fairly decent” job, and  his “beautiful granddaughter.”  Regarding  his  granddaughter,  he
testified,
It’s pretty joyous to  get  to  come  home  and  see  her. And  you  know, when  I
see   my  granddaughter,  no   matter  what  I’ve   gone   through   today,  [it]   just
melts away all that anger and  angst for me. She is pretty amazing. And the
stuff   that  I’ve   gone   through   pales  in   comparison   to   seeing   her  grow  and
learn and  just  experience  life. And  I’d  like  to  be  there and  experience  a  little
more life with her.
(Tr. 54)
