Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  explanations.  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 32  years old.  He earned two bachelor’s degrees and  earned credits
towards a master’s degree. He was married to his first wife from December 2016 until she
passed  away  in  2019.  He  remarried  in  March  2023.  He  has  worked  for  his  current
employer, a federal contractor, since 2015. (Tr. 20; GE 1)
During Applicant’s first marriage, his wife suffered from mental illness. She had a
child from a previous relationship, and Applicant treated his stepdaughter like his own.
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  aware  his  wife  had  experienced  significant  and  intense
trauma in her past. She was abused by a previous boyfriend and had childhood trauma.
She was participating in talk therapy, cognitive therapy, and was on medication. He and
his first wife were together for about two and a half years before they married. He raised
his stepdaughter almost by himself from the age of three until she was seven years. His
wife was a flight attendant and would be gone for extended periods of time, and Applicant
would care for the child. He and his stepdaughter had a close relationship. In early 2017,
he  and  his  wife  attended  marriage  counseling  to  address  communication  issues.  The
counselor recommended he seek individual counseling. (Tr. 21-27, 79)
Applicant sought mental health treatment from a health center (HC) in April 2017.
He reported to the mental health professional (MHP) that he was having difficulty focusing
and  concentrating.  He  was  diagnosed  with  attention  deficient/hyperactivity  disorder
(ADHD). He was prescribed medication. He stated that he also participated in treatment
brought on by his relationship with his wife who was undergoing treatment for depression
and  extreme  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD).  He  said  she  had  an  ongoing
diagnosis  of  alcoholism  and  borderline  personality  disorder.  He  explained  that  as  her
partner and a person who loved her, these conditions led to stress and trauma in dealing
with  her  behavior.  While  attending  therapy,  he  was  also  evaluated  for  various  mental
health issues to ensure a bipolar condition was ruled out, which it was. Applicant testified
that he now manages his ADHD through diet, sleep, and exercise  and is no longer on
medication. (Tr. 22, 25-27, 42, 51-54; Answer to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant testified that his wife was  prescribed  medication for her mental health
issues and was experiencing side effects, such as hallucinations and delusions. She was
also abusing alcohol. She had participated in alcohol detoxification a couple of times. Her
medications  were  changed,  but her symptoms  and  side  effects  worsened.  He  testified
that he was arrested in August 2017 on charges of domestic violence. He testified that
his  wife  was  not  taking  her  prescribed  medication,  and  he  thought  she  was  having
flashbacks. He said that his wife attacked him, and he defended himself by wrapping his
arms around her. He had injuries to his face. He was arrested for domestic violence but
the charges were later dropped. (Tr. 29-30, 45-47, 55-59)
Applicant testified that in August 2017, his wife left him, and she left her daughter
in his care. He was the sole provider for his stepdaughter until November 2017 when the
police arrived at his home on Thanksgiving Day and escorted his stepdaughter from the
premises. He understood that he had no legal rights to her, and he only ever saw her a
few more times. Applicant was distraught and grieving at the loss of his stepdaughter. In
November  2017,  he  reported  to  his  MHP  that  he  was  experiencing  anxiety  due  to  his
separation  from  his  wife  and  loss  of  contact  with  his  stepdaughter.  He  continued  his
regular appointments. (Tr. 22-25, 30, 62; Answer to the SOR)
In  late  December 2017, he  learned  that his wife  had  aborted  their  child. They had
tried  to  conceive  for two  years but struggled  due  to  his wife’s physical health  issues  and
were  unsuccessful. The  combination  of losing  access to  his  stepdaughter and  learning  of
the  abortion  made  him  more depressed  and  mired  in grief.  In  January 2018, he  sought
treatment and  was admitted  to  a  mental health  facility for suicidal  ideations. He  continued
his therapy  to  approximately April 2018  for  grief because  of the  loss of  his  stepdaughter
and  familial stress.  (Tr. 28-30, 66; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  January  2018  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions  (SF 86)  that  in  January 2018  he purchased  and used marijuana  three  times
during one weekend while living in a state where it is legal. He had a security clearance
at the time but did not have access to classified information. He testified that because of
all of the family issues he was experiencing, with the loss of custody of his stepdaughter,
and the separation from his wife, he thought he would try marijuana to relieve the stress.
He believed because it was legal under state law, he was permitted to use it. He credibly
testified that he was unaware that he was not permitted to use marijuana under federal
law, but also acknowledged he should have known better. He has not used marijuana
since that weekend and does not intend to use it in the future. He provided a signed letter
of  intent  to never use or possess  illegal drugs  or misuse  legal drugs  in  the future  and
agreed that his security clearance could be revoked if he violated his promise. (Tr. 43-45,
64-66, 113-118; Answer to the SOR; AE B)
Applicant provided the results of drug tests administered on June 3, 2022, March
25,  2023,  and  April  5,  2023,  which  showed  he  tested  negative  for  illegal  drugs.  He
provided a letter from his mother who said she had visited her son in June 2018, and he
disclosed to her that he had used marijuana to help cope with the separation from his wife
and stepdaughter. She had concerns about the policy of his employer because marijuana
was legal in the state where he lived. She said her son told her that he believed it was
permissible to use. (Tr. 47; AE D, H, I, P)
In  July  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  domestic  violence  against  his  wife.
Applicant denied he committed any act of violence. He believed it was a plot devised by
his  wife  so  he  would  be  in  jail  and  she  could  obtain  items  from  the  marital  home.  He
indicated the incident was entirely fabricated and he had an alibi to her accusations in
that he was not where she claimed he was located. He believed the allegation was made
to obtain legal leverage for their pending divorce or were attributed to his wife’s mental
health  issues  because  he  believed  she  was  not  taking  her  medications  and  was
consuming  alcohol.  He  attributed  her  obtaining  restraining  orders  against  him  in
September 2018 and May 2019 to the same purposes as noted above. The charges and
orders were all dismissed when Applicant’s wife failed to appear in court. (Tr. 29-30, 41,
45-47, 77; Answer to the SOR)
During  marriage  counseling,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  was  depressed  and
mentioned  he  had  suicidal  ideations.  In  December  2018,  Applicant  was  at  home  and
asleep. His wife tried to contact him by telephone and when he did not answer, she called
the police. He explained to the police that he was seeking treatment for grief and was
dealing with depression, but it was being handled through his private MHP. For reasons
unbeknownst to him they admitted him under the Baker Act to a mental health facility.
Applicant believes this was an attempt by his wife to ruin his reputation and gain leverage
in  their  divorce  proceeding.  Applicant  admitted  he  had  suicidal  ideations  but  did  not
attempt suicide. (Tr. 31,37-41, 66, 82-87)
Applicant’s discharge summary from his December 2018 hospitalization notes that
he was communicating with his ex-wife and was venting and instead of her calming him,
she began screaming at him. He attempted to tell her that because of the way she treated
him and interacted with him, he had become suicidal in the past. That was the end of the
conversation,  until  the  police  arrived  at  his  door.  He  denied  he  had  attempted  to
deliberately harm himself. He had positives in this life and was gainfully employed. He
was receiving support from his mother and brother and had strong religious beliefs. He
was looking forward to a trip to India. He was discharged in January 2019 with a diagnosis
by a medical doctor of depressive disorder, not elsewhere classified, major depressive
disorder, single episode, unspecified, and unspecified depressive disorder. He testified
that he was told to continue seeing his therapist. (Tr. 30, 40-41; GE 3)
Applicant was moving from one state to another and during the period of late 2018
to 2019, and he was traveling back and forth between the states. Also at some point, his
wife  had  move  to  the  new  state.  He  testified  that  he  followed  up  with  a  health  care
professional in the new state. Applicant provided a letter from Dr. MS, a licensed married
and   family therapist  (LMF)   and   licensed  mental health   counselor, who  practiced   in   the
new state. She  provided  a  letter from  October 2020  that stated  she  had  treated  Applicant
since   November 2018   and   diagnosed  him   with   adjustment   disorder with   anxiety   as he
was  transitioning   through   divorce.   She   last   saw  him   in   December  2019   when   they
mutually decided  to  terminate  services.  He testified  that they agreed  he  had  continued
therapy  to  the  point  where it  was no  longer necessary, and  at that  point he  had  a  game
plan  to  address any issues that may occur or bouts of grief he  may  experience. (Tr. 34-
35, 66-75, 80-82, 87; AE C)
Applicant  testified  that  his  wife  attempted  suicide  five  times  while  they  were
married. In September 2019, she succeeded. She left a suicide note, hung herself, and
was  found  weeks  later  at  her  house.  It  was  determined  that  her  cause  of  death  was
suicide. (Tr. 45)
On  January  17,  2022,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  government-approved
psychologist, Dr. B. Based on her clinical interview, available medical and mental health
treatment  records,  testing  observations,  and  results  of  the  Personality  Assessment
Inventory (PAI), she determined Applicant met the criteria for major depressive disorder,
recurrent, severe in remission, bipolar disorder R/O1 and Cluster B personality traits.2 She
noted Applicant had a history of psychiatric hospitalizations and domestic violence issues.
He  also  had  episodes  of  increased  energy  and  activity  as  well  as  episodes  of  major
depression.  He  was  not  in  treatment  for  these  conditions  because  she  noted  that
Applicant felt he did not need mental health treatment. His prognosis was poor because
he  was  not  interested  in  treatment,  which  Dr.  B  noted  would  need  to  be  regular  and
ongoing  to  prevent  relapses  of  depression  and  possibly  mania.  She  said  due  to
inconsistencies  she  noted  in  information  he  provided  to  her  and  to  the  government
investigator regarding his security clearance application it suggested he was dishonest.
She  noted  his  use  of  marijuana  while  he  had  a  security  clearance,  which  he
acknowledged, also gave her concerns, although she did not discuss this as impacting
judgment,
his  psychological
trustworthiness, and reliability. (GE 4)
issues.  She  had  significant  concerns  about  his
Applicant testified that he disagreed with many things Dr. B stated in her report
noting they were inaccurate. He noted that his virtual evaluation was between one and
two hours. Her conclusions that he perpetrated acts of domestic violence were not true.
He noted she opined that he had unpredictable and violent behavior, which was untrue
and  based  on  false  reports  from  his  ex-wife.  He  said  Dr.  B  saw  this  as  inconsistent
reporting and dishonest. He adamantly disagreed with her interpretation and willingness
to accept these accusations without considering his information. Dr B. concluded that he
had  episodes  of  increased  energy  and  activity,  such  as  formulating  a  plan  to  travel  to
1  www.rxlist.com:Rule out (R/O) term used in medicine meaning to eliminate or exclude something from
consideration. For example, a normal chest x-ray may “rule out” pneumonia.
2 The DSM-5 notes that personality disorders under Cluster B, which is called the dramatic, emotional, and
erratic  cluster,  include  Borderline  Personality  Disorder,  Narcissistic  Personality  Disorder,  Histrionic
Personality Disorder and Antisocial Personality Disorder.
India, which were a concern. Applicant had planned a trip to India for a wedding that was
subsequently canceled because the wedding was canceled. He took a trip to Aruba after
he  had  completed  his  two  bachelor’s  degrees  because  he  was  exhausted  and  not
because he was using sleep as a coping mechanism for a manic episode. He denied he
exhibited  unpredictable  and  erratic  behavior.  He  denied  he  lied  and  had  recurring
problems with the law, was aggressive, violent, and impulsive. He also disagreed with her
evaluation that he was dishonest. Dr. B noted that he was in a tumultuous relationship
with his wife and had suicidal ideations during this time, which prompted a diagnosis of
major depressive disorder, and she had concerns that he was not currently in treatment.
When  he  was  evaluated  by  Dr.  B,  he  was  no  longer  married  as  his  wife  had  been
deceased since 2019. She noted that he reported on his security clearance application
(January 2020) that he was going through some hard times but was in therapy and doing
better. She said if he did have some insight for treatment, he did not have it at the time of
the evaluation and therefore his prognosis was poor. (Tr. 32-33, 102-112; GE 4)
Applicant was re-evaluated in June  2022 by a licensed psychologist (LC). The LC
noted   that  she   had   experience   treating   various  disorders,  particularly  depressive
disorders. They discussed  his past suicidal  ideations, Baker Act hospitalization, the  loss
of  his  stepdaughter  and   ex-wife.  They  also   discussed   his  history  of  grief  and   his  past
counseling  with  Dr.  MS. LC  noted  that Applicant  reported  that  he  was previously given
the  Personality Assessment Inventory and  the  screening  yielded  Bipolar  Disorder. (This
is  incorrect  according   to   Dr.  B   Bipolar  Disorder  had   to   be   ruled   out.)  LC   administered
assessments   for  anxiety  and   depression.  His   scores  were   nonsignificant  in   the   “none-
minimal”   range.  She   also  reviewed   the   DSM-5   criteria   for  Bipolar  I,   II,  and   Major
Depressive  Disorder.  Of   the   three   disorders,  Applicant  only  “endorsed   1   symptom   of
Major  Depressive  Disorder  (diminished   ability  to   concentrate/think)  and   the   diagnosis
requires  5   or  more  symptoms  to   be   endorsed.”  (AE   A)  In   LC’s  professional  opinion,
Applicant does not currently meet the  criteria  for Major Depressive Disorder or Bipolar I
or Bipolar II Disorders. (Tr. 34, 89-102; AE A)
Applicant testified that he loved his first wife, despite their tumultuous relationship,
which he attributed to her PTSD and trauma she experienced, along with her abuse of
alcohol.  The  loss  of  custody  of  his  stepdaughter  had  a  devastating  impact  on  him
emotionally  and  mentally.  When  he  learned  his  wife  committed  suicide,  she  had  been
deceased  for  several  weeks  before  her  body  was  found.  Although  their  marriage  had
failed, she had been his best friend and he loved her. He could not understand why she
would not take her medication. (Tr. 29)
Applicant remarried in 2023. He provided a letter from his new wife who is aware
of the allegations in the SOR. She has known Applicant for four years. She has noticed
positive  changes  in  how  he  copes  with  his  grief  and  loss.  She  noticed  a  substantial
change in the first year of knowing him and continued consistency in the three subsequent
years. She supports him in his goals. She described him as patient and understanding.
(AE J, O)
Applicant testified that he has a good support system with his wife and family. He
is looking forward to his future and starting a family. He has developed coping skills and
participating in therapy has helped him. The loss of his wife and stepdaughter will always
be with him, but its impact has diminished, and he has learned the proper way to deal
with his loss. (Tr. 112)
Applicant provided performance evaluations from 2016 to 2021. He consistently
took on additional responsibilities and successfully added value to various projects. His
evaluations ranked him as “exceeded” and “significantly exceeded” goals. (AE F)
Applicant provided character letters describing him as a mentor, a leader, reliable,
focused, respected, and dependable. He has a strong work ethic and is a vital member
of the team. (Tr. 47-49; AE G, J)
