Applicant is 34 years old. He married a Japanese citizen in January 2017 and has
a  young  child.  He  enlisted  and  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  2011  to
December 2014 and in the Army Reserve from 2015 to June 2018. He was honorably
discharged from active duty but was administratively separated from the Army Reserve
under other than honorable conditions (OTH Separation). He was also reduced in rank
from  Specialist  to  Private  First  Class.  He  claims  he  was  separated  from  the  Reserve
because he missed monthly drills due to an injury. He has held a security clearance since
about 2010. He earned a bachelor’s degree in June 2018 after attending college classes
part time. He has also pursued two professional certifications. Since his discharge from
active duty, he has worked for a defense contractor on two occasions, April 2017 through
September  2019  and  January  2021  to  the  present.  He  is  seeking  national  security
eligibility in relation to his current employment as a technology specialist. (Tr. at 14-19;
GE 1 at Sections 2, 12, 13A, 15, 17, 18, 25; GE 3 at 7; GE 4 at 10; AE E; AE G; AE L.)
When  he  served  in  the  Army  on  active  duty,  Applicant’s  duty  station  was  in
Colorado Springs, Colorado. He never deployed. He has a 100% disability rating from the
Department of Veterans Affairs. He suffers from service-related depression and anxiety.
(Tr. at 18, 68-69; AE F.)
Applicant testified that he received the OTH Separation in July 2018 from the Army
Reserve due to his inability to report to Reserve drilling because he was bedridden after
a motorcycle accident in the summer of 2015. He testified that he advised his command
of  his  disability  and  his  inability  to  drill  with  his  unit.  He  did  not  appear  before  an
administrative  separation  board.  He  received  a  letter  advising  him  that  he  was  being
separated  under  other  than  honorable  conditions.  Upon  being  questioned,  he
acknowledged  that  he  missed  drills  for  “a  year  or  two”  in  the  2017-to-2018  period.  He
subsequently limited the time he missed drills to “a year.” He then could not explain the
three-year time gap between the motorcycle accident and his separation in July 2018. He
thought he had  communicated  his situation  properly  to  his squadron  leader but  admitted
there must have  been   “a lack of communication.” He testified  that he  texted  his leader
about five  times  regarding  his condition  over a  period  of  about a  year, but  never made  a
phone call. (Tr. at 30-40.)
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because of his
criminal  conduct,  which  raises  questions  about  his
judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness;  and  about  his  ability  and  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  denied  the  allegation  of  criminal  conduct.  The
specifics  of  the  charges,  the  underlying  conduct,  and  the  prosecution  are  as  follows:
1.a. May 2018 Spousal Assault. Applicant was charged with Assault by Means
Likely to Produce Great Bodily Injury and four counts of Battery. His wife, the victim in this
assault, declined to prosecute Applicant, and the District Attorney dropped the charges.
The local City Attorney then filed charges. Applicant entered into an agreement with the
prosecutor in 2022 or 2023, which provided that the charges would be dismissed in April
2023 if Applicant complied with the terms and conditions of the agreement. The charges
were dismissed about two weeks before the DOHA hearing. (Tr. at 22-23, 541; GE 1 at
Section 22; GE 5; AE D.)
The police report of the incident reflects the date and time of the domestic violence
incident as May 25, 2018, at 7:40 am. The police were called and arrived at Applicant’s
residence. They took a statement from Applicant’s wife. The police statement provides a
detailed  description  of  Applicant’s  actions  that  morning,  which  began  with  yelling  by
Applicant because his wife woke him up to go to work. He then threw a blanket over his
wife’s head and strangled her with his hand or arm for about 30 seconds. She could not
breathe during that period. She freed herself from his grip, and he pushed her face onto
a couch cushion for about a minute when she again could not breathe. She freed herself
and tried to escape. Applicant then grabbed her hair and banged her head against a wall
10 to 15 times. Four days after the incident, a police officer met with Applicant’s wife and
read her statement to her. He asked if everything she said in her statement was correct,
and she affirmed that it was. At the DOHA hearing, Applicant denied everything in the
statement starting with her comment that she woke him up that morning so that he could
go to work. (Tr. at 44-45; GE 4 at 23, 29, 40.)
The police also took a statement from a neighbor (the Witness), who lived in the
apartment  above  Applicant’s  residence.  The  Witness  reported  that  she  heard  an
argument in Applicant’s apartment and then screams from Applicant’s wife. She believed
that her neighbor was in distress. She also heard thumping noises. The Witness decided
she  should  intervene  and  knocked  on  the  door  to  Applicant’s  apartment  and  rang  the
doorbell. Applicant answered the door and reported to her that everything was fine. The
Witness entered  the  apartment  and  found  Applicant’s wife  sitting  on  the  floor, “shaking
and  crying  hysterically.” The  Witness returned  to her apartment and  shortly thereafter,
Applicant’s wife appeared at her door. She told the Witness that Applicant hits her often
and gets upset with her when she tries to wake him up so he can go to work. The Witness
called 911 and reported the domestic violence incident. In an email dated June 27, 2022,
Applicant’s wife wrote that she called the police. Applicant testified that none of what the
Witness  told  the  police  was  correct.  The  police  report  described  the  wife’s  demeanor
when they arrived as “upset,” “crying,” “fearful,” and “nervous,” confirming the Witness’s
statement about her condition that morning. Applicant testified that he did not recall his
wife’s demeanor that morning before he left their home for work. (Tr. at 45-50; GE 4 at
19, 29, 32; AE G at 1.)
Applicant’s  wife  also  reported  to  the  police  that  Applicant  had  been  physically
violent with her in the past. She said that he had been physically abusive to her throughout
their 17 months of marriage, which is when she immigrated from Japan and they began
to cohabitate. She told the police that about once a month he would grab her hair or her
head  and  slam  her  head  into  a  wall  in  their  apartment.  She  never  sustained  serious
injuries and was never hospitalized. She did not seek medical attention after the May 25,
2018 incident, though she did complain about head pain. Applicant denied that he had
ever physically abused his wife. (Tr. at 52; GE 4 at 22.)
After her interview by the police, Applicant’s wife requested that she be taken to a
women’s shelter. She asked that the Witness accompany her. The police took her to a
facility for placement in a shelter. Later that day, Applicant’s wife obtained a restraining
order against her husband. Applicant was also ordered to be removed from the couple’s
residence. A few months after the May 2018 incident, a more limited protective order was
entered, and Applicant was allowed to return to his residence. That order was continued
to at least January 2022, according to the court records, though Applicant testified that
the order was lifted. Applicant provided an undated document that reflects the dismissal
of the restraining order proceeding. (Tr. at 51; GE 4 at 24, 40-47; AE B.)
Applicant denies that any assault occurred on May 25, 2018, or at any other time.
He  testified  that  one  morning  in  May  2018,  he  had  an  argument  with  his  wife  and  the
argument  attracted  the  attention  of  their  neighbor,  the  Witness.  He  claims  that  the
allegations against him were made up by his wife at the urgings of the Witness with whom
Applicant and his wife had an unfriendly relationship. He blames the bad, “aggressive”
relationship on the neighbor frequently asking him and his wife for financial assistance or
to borrow personal property. He testified that he declined all such requests. He claimed
that as a result of their interactions, Applicant and his wife were “on bad terms” with the
Witness. (Tr. at 19-21.)
Applicant testified that after the argument with his wife, he went to work. The police
came to his home while he was at work. When he returned home, he learned that he had
been “evicted” from his residence. Based upon the police investigative report, the District
Attorney’s  office  filed  five  domestic  violence  charges  against  Applicant,  including  one
felony  charge.  Applicant  insisted  that  the  Witness  encouraged  his  wife  to  make  the
complaint  against  him  and  that  the  charges  were  false.  He  attributed  his  wife  being
manipulated  by the  Witness  or misunderstanding  the  police  due  to  her poor English  skills.
(Tr. at  21-25; GE 3 at 9.)
Applicant’s  wife  was  born  in  Japan  and  lived  there  until  she  immigrated  to  the
United  States  in  January  2017  to  marry  Applicant.  Her  primary  language  is  Japanese
though at the time of their marriage she spoke some English. She had studied English
when she was in school and had traveled to the United States in 2015 when she first met
Applicant.  He testified that although he spoke  a little Japanese, they  communicated  in
English while they were dating and communicating long-distance. Before they had their
child  in  October  2019,  Applicant’s  wife  worked  in  a  restaurant  where  she  “had  to”
communicate in English. (Tr. at 21-29, 40-44, 62; GE 1 at 36.)
GE 5 contains a court record for a proceeding in which Applicant’s wife appeared
and addressed the court in English on April 24, 2019, less than a year after the incident
with Applicant. The court found that an interpreter was not needed because she could
understand and speak English. The initial police report also shows that Applicant’s wife
was  able  to  communicate  clearly  with  the  police  about  the  incident  in  a  one-on-one
interview. As noted, she also confirmed to the police the accuracy of her statement four
days later. (GE 4 at 22-24; GE 5 at 6.)
Mitigation
Applicant’s  wife  prepared  an  email,  dated  June  27,  2022,  addressed  to  the
prosecutor in her husband’s criminal case. In her communication, she asked for help in
having the case dismissed. At that time, his case was scheduled for trial the next month.
She wrote that she regretted calling the police in 2018 “every day.” She noted that prior
to the incident, she had suffered a back injury in 2017 and had surgery in March 2018.
She commented that she was stressed after her surgery  and called the police after an
argument  with  her  husband.  She  also  wrote  that  a  neighbor  “told  me  I  should  call  the
police.” The record evidence reflects that the prosecutor ultimately offered Applicant an
agreement that terminated the case on April 25, 2023, after Applicant completed an eight-
week  anger  management/domestic  violence  course  on  March  4,  2023.  He  was  also
required to be “booked.” (Tr. at 23-24, 54-56; AE D; AE G at 1; AE I; AE J.)
Applicant submitted two letters (and duplicate copies of the letters) of support. The
letters were dated April 19, 2018, which was before the domestic violence incident and
the criminal charges, and April 22, 2019. Applicant worked for this employer from 2017 to
2019. He has since worked for two other companies. One letter from an executive of his
former employer praised Applicant’s excellent customer service. The second letter was
prepared  by  Applicant’s  former  manager.  He  noted  Applicant’s  professionalism  in  the
handling of his duties and his care for his wife after she suffered a serious injury. (AE G;
AE K; AE L.)
