In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a -1.d with explanations. During the
hearing, he admitted SOR ¶ 2.a, as noted above. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  41  years old.  He  has  never  married  and  has  one  child.  He  did  not
attend  college,  instead  earning  a  trade  certification  in  2004.  He  submitted  his  SCA
through  a  previous  employer.  In  September  2022,  he  began  working  for  his  current
employer  as  an  electrical  technician.  He  has  not  previously  held  a  security  clearance.
(GX 1-2; Tr. 17, 20)
Marijuana Use
Applicant began using marijuana in about 1999 when he was eighteen years old
in  high  school.  He  would  smoke  three  to  seven  times  per  month,  mostly  with  friends.
Initially, others gave the marijuana to him. However, he later purchased marijuana from
drug dealers at local gas stations. (GX 1-2; Tr. 28-29)
In  2003,  Applicant  joined  a  job  program  through  another  federal  agency.  The
program  required  drug  screenings  for  participants.  He  tested  positive  for  marijuana
during  his  initial  screening  but  was  allowed  to  remain  in  the  program  and  had  no
additional positive drug tests.  (This is not alleged in the SOR). In 2004, he left  the job
program and resumed using marijuana. (GX 2; Tr. 33-36)
Over time, Applicant’s marijuana use increased to almost daily. His use continued
until 2012, when he refused to provide a second urine sample, as requested, during an
employer-directed  drug  test.  His  refusal  was  considered  a  failed  drug  test  by  his
employer  and  he  was  released  from  his  assigned  contract.  (See  further  discussion,
below). With the loss of income, he could no longer afford marijuana and stopped using
it for about a year.  However, once he got another job, he resumed smoking marijuana
about twice a week. (GX 1-2; Tr. 62-65)
Applicant would often smoke on his own, with his son’s mother or with friends. In
about  2018,  he  stopped  seeing  his  son’s  mother and  obtained  full  custody  of  his  son.
Although he stopped seeing the friends with whom he used marijuana, he continued to
regularly  purchase  and  use  marijuana  through  about  April  2021.  He  stopped  using
marijuana in order to pass an initial drug screening for his employer. (Tr. 30-32, 75-76)
In  his  May  2021  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  purchased  and  used
marijuana  “hundreds  of  times”  up  until  a  month  before  his  security  clearance
application. However, he also stated his intent to terminate future marijuana use. (GX 1)
At his hearing, Applicant testified that he was committed to not using marijuana in
the future. He described his personal growth, health and life changes as well as trying to
be a good father as reasons why he no longer intended to use marijuana. (Tr. 69-70, 77)
Misuse of Prescription Medications
In  about  2003,  while  working  with  the  job  program,  Applicant  experienced  a
painful medical condition and was given a prescription for Percocet. Later, he received
Vicodin  at  the  hospital  for  a  toothache.  In  both  instances,  he  liked  the  way  these
narcotics made him feel and described becoming addicted to them. (Tr. 46-49)
After  his  prescriptions  ran  out,  Applicant  continued  using  Percocet  or  Vicodin
weekly.  He would illegally  use  these  narcotics  with  his son’s  mother.  She  would  either
get them from the doctor’s office where she worked, or she would purchase them from a
friend. Applicant would give her money to purchase the narcotics. (GX 1; Tr. 51-53)
Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  using  Percocet  in  2018,  primarily  because  it
resulted in stomach issues. However, he continued taking Vicodin without a prescription
through  late  2020  or  early  2021.  He  did  not  seek  out  any  treatment  or  counseling  to
assist in terminating his use. However, he testified that he has no further intent to take
narcotics  without  a  prescription  because  he  was  getting  older  and  was  trying  to  set  a
good example for his son. (Tr. 44, 57, 73-77)
Attempted Submission of a False Urine Sample for Drug Test
In  about  June  2012,  following  a  work  injury,  Applicant  was  directed  by  his
employer  to  take  a  urinalysis  drug  test,  as  referenced  above.  Knowing  that  he  would
test  positive  for  marijuana, Applicant  called  several  friends  in  an  effort  to  obtain  clean
urine  to  submit  for the test.  He then concealed  the  friend’s  urine in his jeans when  he
entered the testing facility. However, when he submitted the sample, the lab technician
suspected  something  was  wrong  and  asked  him  to  submit  a  second  sample.  He
refused,  pretended  to  be  sick  and  left  the  facility.  His  refusal  was  considered  a  failed
drug test by his employer and he was released from his assigned contract. (Tr. 59-68)
Although Applicant disclosed details of this event in his Answer to the SOR and
at hearing, he provided conflicting accounts during previous aspects of his investigation.
In  both  his  SCA  and  background  interview,  he  stated  he  did  not  know  why  he  was
requested to submit a second urine sample. Yet, he knew the first sample was not his
urine.  He  later  claimed  that  he  did  not  share  details  of  his  efforts  to  subvert  the  2012
drug test during the investigation because he forgot. (GX 1-2; Answer)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  his  attempt  to  submit  a  false  urine  sample  was  a
“horrible  idea”  that  he  would  not  repeat.  However,  he  did  resume  using  marijuana
afterwards. (Tr. 78)
