Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶  1.a  and  2.a.  He  denied  the  SOR
allegation  in  ¶  1.b.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  60  years  old.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2000  and  a
bachelor’s degree in 2003. He married in 1993 and has two children, ages 30 and 28. He
has worked for his present employer, a federal contractor, since January 2017.
The SOR alleges delinquent student loans (¶ 1.a $43,614) and a delinquent credit
card (¶ 1.b $1,586) that are substantiated by Applicant’s admissions in the SOR, during
his interview with a government investigator, and credit reports from January 2021 and
February 2023. (Items 3, 5, 6, 9)
In  August  2021,  based  on  information  obtained  through  the  DOD  Continuous
Evaluation Program, DOD sent Applicant’s employer a supplemental information request,
requiring Applicant to complete a current Questionnaire for Investigation Processing (e-
QIP). He completed it in August 2021. (Item 6)
Section 26 of the e-QIP asked if Applicant, in the past seven years, had defaulted
on any type of loan; had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency; or  had been
over 120 delinquent on any debt not previously included in the e-QIP. He responded “no”
to all those questions. (Item 4)
In  September  2021,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.
When asked if he had any debts in collection, he responded that he did not. He was then
confronted with collection accounts for student loans and a credit card. He explained to
the investigator that he had no knowledge of the debts, and his wife handled all of the
finances. He did acknowledge that he opened a student loan account in his name for the
benefit of his daughter with the Department of Education. He was given an opportunity to
provide additional documents and information after he spoke with his wife. He was also
given a financial worksheet to complete. (Item 5)
Applicant contacted the investigator the next day by email and stated he and his
wife did not feel they needed to complete the financial worksheet because they are not at
fault.  He  also  stated  he  was  willing  to  pay  the  correct  amount  of  the  student  loan.
However, he did not agree with the loan term “consolidated loans.” He then went on to
say that the borrower had the right to cancel if there was not a good option. It is unclear
what this statement means. (Item 5)
In  Applicant’s response  to the FORM, he provided a letter from the  student loan
creditor from January 2018, which stated that the consolidated application from Applicant
was  canceled  on  October  27,  2017.  However,  the  creditor  received  an  email  from
Applicant on  November 14, 2017, to  continue  the  process of consolidation. Applicant’s
application was reinstated effective November 15, 2017, and the creditor disbursed the
funds on November 22, 2017. The creditor explained it did not receive another request to
cancel the consolidation request until November 23, 2017. It stated in its letter:
Unfortunately,  we were  not able  to  cancel your Direct  Consolidation  Loan
since  the  consolidation  process had  been  complete  and  loan  was disbursed
on  November 22, 2017. Once  the  consolidation  is complete, we are unable
to “unconsolidated” the loan. (AE B)
In  October  2018,  Applicant  filed  a  complaint  with  the  Consumer  Financial
Protection Bureau against the DOE Office of Federal Student Aid. He provided a copy of
an email received in February 2020 noting they were working on his complaint. (Item 3)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he stated that he contacted the student loan
provider  on  November  23,  2017,  to  cancel  the  application  for  the  loan  due  to  a
misunderstanding. He said the application was submitted on November 14, 2017, and he
had  ten  days  to  make  a  change  to  the  application,  but  his  request  for  a  change  was
“unreasonably” rejected. (AE A)
Applicant’s February 2023 credit report reflects that he had several student loans
that were acquired from 2011 through 2013. Applicant made payments on these loans
and then in November 2017 they were refinanced. It appears this is when they were also
consolidated.  After  that  time,  it  appears  he  may  have  made  some  payments,  but  it  is
unclear. He did not provide any information on payments he previously made or why he
may have changed the status of the loan. At some point, he stopped paying them and
they went to collection. (Item 9)
Regarding the credit card debt in SOR ¶ 1.b, in Applicant’s subsequent email to
the investigator after his September 2021 interview, he stated that he had paid the creditor
$5,000, and he and his wife did not agree with the interest that was charged, believing it
was an overcharge. (Item 5)
In  Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR, he  provided  a  copy of an  email from  October
2018 that he sent to the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.b. He told the creditor that the amount of
interest charged was incorrect and that he had previously contacted them in December
2017 requesting a corrected statement, but his request was ignored. He stated: “This [is]
my last message to you please stop contacting me.” (Item 5)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he stated the amount alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b
was incorrect due to an overcharge for interest on the credit card, and he had paid the
credit  card  debt  in  full.  He  said  the  interest  rate  agreement  was  for  9.9%  and  he  was
charged up to 15%. No documents were provided. His credit report from February 2023
reflects the debt has been delinquent since January 2018 and remains unpaid. (AE A)
Applicant stated in his FORM response that he was willing to repay the student
loan, (Sugg. I think “loan debt” is a bit redundant.) but the payments have been paused
due  to  the  pandemic.  He  stated  he  intended  to  start  repayment  when  the  program
reopens. (AE E)
Applicant  provided  an  email  from  November  2022  from  Miguel  Cardona,  U.S.
Secretary  of  Education  regarding  the  student  loan  debt  relief  program  and  noted  that
Applicant was eligible for relief. However, the legality of program was challenged. He may
be eligible under a new program.  If approved,  part of Applicant’s  student  loans  will be
discharged. (AE F)
Applicant  provided a DOE  email noting that the pause  on  payments  for student
loans was extended through the end of June 2023 so those who qualified for debt relief
would not have to make payments when their loans may be forgiven. (AE G)
Applicant provided a letter in his FORM response from his wife stating he does not
know anything about their finances. She handles all financial matters. (AE E) He stated:
Since in the past to on August 2021, I did not know any financial in family.
My  wife,  [LL],  she  took  care  and  handled  anything  in  finance.  Until
investigator my security clearance let me know about the debts. (AE E)
