Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations, except ¶¶ 1.f, 1.p and 1.q, which he
denied.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. He completed high school and then earned an associate
degree in 2016. He married in 2008 and has two children ages 11 and 12. He has a third
child from another relationship. The age of the child is unknown. Applicant served in the
military  from  2007  until  2014.  He  received  a  discharge  under  other  than  honorable
conditions.  Applicant  had  two  periods  of  unemployment.  After  his  discharge  he  was
unemployed  for  two  months  in  2014  and  again  from  April  2017  to  June  2017.  He  has
worked for his present employer, a federal contractor, since May 2018.
The SOR alleges 17 delinquent debts totaling approximately $45,722. Applicant’s
admissions in his answer to the SOR, background interview, responses to government
interrogatories, and credit reports from November 2018, January 2021, September 2021,
and February 2022, corroborate the SOR allegations. (GE 1-8)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in August 2018. In it
he  disclosed  he  had  delinquent  debts  and  stated  he  called  some  debt  collectors  that
appeared on his credit report to try and make payment arrangements and determine the
balance he owed. He then explained he fell on hard times and could not make payments
on his largest debt that is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. His interrogatory response to his largest
debt  was  that  it  was  not  paid  and  no  efforts  had  been  made  to  make  payment
arrangements. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Applicant also explained that he had fathered a child while he was separated from
his wife  and  in the military.  Two  years later the mother of  the  child  petitioned  for child
support. He explained he had been sending packages to the child every other month but
the court did not recognize this as child support but rather were gifts. SOR ¶ 1.d ($4,884)
is  the  amount  alleged  in  arrears.  His  February  2022  credit  report  shows  a  balance  of
$3,067. Applicant did not respond to questions in his interrogatories about the status of
his delinquent child support or provide any current documentation to support he has made
subsequent efforts to pay the arrearages. (Items 2-8)
During  Applicant’s  February  2019  background
interview,  he
acknowledged almost all of the debts. He explained he was in the process of resolving
them. He said he was working with a credit repair company to help resolve his delinquent
debts. In his response to interrogatories, Applicant provided documents that he resolved
the debt in SOR ¶ 1.q. ($147) (GE 3)
investigation
In his SCA, Applicant stated that he did not have jobs that paid much after leaving
the military. In response to government interrogatories, Applicant stated that he attributed
his financial issues to being young, in the military, and he was unable to pay the debts
and let them lapse. He is now working and has paid some debts. He did not provide any
other evidence or documents that he has resolved any of the remaining debts in the SOR,
has payment plans, contacted any of the creditors, or disputed any debts. (GE 4)
