Applicant, age 31, is unmarried without children. He has resided with a cohabitant
since 2014. He earned an associate degree in February 2020 from a community college
he  began  attending  in  August  2018.  He  attended  another  college  from  August  2020
through at least April 2022, without earning a degree. He worked part-time for two different
grocers from July 2011 through at least April 2022. This is Applicant’s first application for
a security clearance. His employment status with the defense contractor sponsoring his
SCA is not indicated in the record. (Item 5)
Applicant smoked marijuana from about August 2009 (age 17) through November
2019 (age 27), which he described as his “high school and college” years. From August
2009  through  2015,  he  smoked  marijuana  three  to  five  times  a  week.  After  his  father
passed away in 2015, he reduced the frequency of his marijuana use to once every six
months because smoking marijuana caused him to be depressed and sad. He purchased
marijuana for his personal use: in high school, from a friend; and in college, from either a
neighbor or a friend. He usually smoked marijuana while with other people: in high school,
with his brother and three unnamed friends; and in college, with his roommate. (Items 5,
6)
Applicant  used  Adderall  without  a  prescription  from  September  2015  (age  23)
through November 2019 (age 27), about every three months. On each occasion that he
used Adderall, he ingested one or two pills. He maintained that he used Adderall to help
him study and focus, in preparation for his college exams. He purchased at least one of
the Adderall pills he used from either a friend or another unnamed person. (Items 5, 6)
Applicant used  lysergic  acid diethylamide  (LSD)  two  times, in November 2019  (age
27)  and  March  2021  (age  28). On  each  occasion  that  he  used  LSD, he  ingested  one-third
of a  tab, which had been  provided  to him  by a friend. He maintained that he  used LSD to
enhance  his experience  at music festivals  he attended  with  friends. He suffered  adverse
effects following his use of LSD the second time  and has not used it since. (Items 5, 6)
Applicant used cocaine one time in December 2021. The cocaine was provided to
him by an individual he met while on a camping trip with friends. He rolled up a dollar bill
and snorted one line of cocaine at two separate times during the same camping trip. The
following day, he suffered adverse effects due to his cocaine use. (Items 5, 6)
In his April 2022 SCA, Applicant asserted that he had no intent to use marijuana,
Adderall, LSD, or cocaine, in the future. With regard to why he did not intend to continue
his marijuana use, he stated, “I am extremely driven and weed doesn’t help me to be the
person I want to be.” As to why he did not intend to continue his LSD use, he stated, “I
dont [sic] intend to use it anymore because it wasn’t a positive experience and I’m past
that part in [sic] my life.” Concerning why he did not intend to continue his cocaine use,
he stated, “[m]oving on with my career and having a family in the future.” (Item 5).
During  his  June  2022  security  clearance  interview,  Applicant  explained  that  he
initially smoked marijuana to be accepted and hang out with the cool kids. He described
his college career as longer than it should have been due to a lack of motivation and self-
confidence he attributed to his marijuana use.  He regretted using cocaine  because he
knew that he should not have used it and attributed his one-time use to being absorbed
into his environment. He professed that he had transitioned out of his party phase and no
longer needed to use drugs to hang out with his friends or feel included. He averred that
he  no  longer  needed  to  use  Adderall  because  he  had  become  more  confident  in  his
academic ability. (Item 6)
During his June 2022 security clearance interview, Applicant asserted that he no
longer associated with drug users. He maintained that his friends have either graduated
or  are  not  willing  to  jeopardize  their  careers  by  using  drugs.  Of  the  three  references
Applicant listed on his SCA, two were friends with whom he had smoked marijuana. He
maintained that neither friend smoked marijuana anymore. He was not sure whether his
brother still smoked marijuana, as his brother did not live close by. (Items 5, 6)
In his November 2022 Answer, Applicant reiterated his commitment to abstinence
from marijuana, Adderall, LSD, cocaine, and any other controlled substances. He stated,
“I understand the illegal use of controlled substances greatly damages my future career
and I have already dedicated myself to changing this behavior . . .” He maintained that he
has become  “more career and  family oriented, has dedicated  himself to  living  a  “more
healthy and meaningful life.”  He has distanced himself from  those with whom he used
Adderall,  LSD,  and  cocaine,  and  changed  his  environment  by  moving  away  from  his
hometown and college town.
