Applicant is a 33-year-old, single woman with two children, ages 14 and 6. She is
a high school graduate and has taken some college courses. (Item 2 at 10) She has been
working for a federal government contractor as a security alarms dispatcher since 2021
(Item 2 at 12).
Over  the  years,  Applicant  incurred  approximately  $58,000  of  delinquent  debt.
(Answer  at  5)  Approximately  $54,000  consists  of  student  loan  debt,  as  alleged  in
subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b, a credit card account, as alleged in subparagraph 1.c, and a
medical bill, as alleged in subparagraph 1.d. Applicant attributes her difficulty with keeping
up with her debts to the difficulties of making ends meet as a single mother of two children.
(Item  2  at  4)  The  credit  account  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.c,  totaling,  $1,921,  was
opened,  unbeknownst  to  her,  by  her  ex-boyfriend,  an  authorized  card  user,  and  she
incurred  the  medical  bill,  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.d,  totaling  $1,333,  after  a  car
accident.
Applicant  contends  that  she  applied  for  a  student  loan  debt  relief  plan  that  will
forgive $20,000 of the debt, and she promised to set up a payment plan to satisfy the
remainder once the $20,000 was forgiven. (Item 1 at 4) Applicant provided no proof of a
loan forgiveness application, nor did she provide proof that part of her student loan debt
has been forgiven, or that she has arranged a payment plan.
Applicant closed the account alleged in subparagraph 1.c, and contends that she
will  pay  the  balance  once  she  receives  an  insurance  settlement  from  an  automobile
accident in which she was involved. (Item 1 at 4) Similarly, Applicant contends that she
will  satisfy  the  medical  bill,  as  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.d,  after  she  receives  the
settlement.
In September 2008, while at home  breastfeeding her newborn child, Applicant’s
then boyfriend began to beat her. Attempting to escape his abuse, Applicant ran to her
kitchen. Her then boyfriend  chased  her into the  kitchen  and did not  stop  attempting to
beat her until she grabbed a kitchen knife and cut him.  (Item 1 at 4) Subsequently, he
contacted  the  police,  who  arrested  Applicant  the  next  day,  and  charged  her  with
possessing  an  instrument  of  a  crime,  simple  assault,  aggravated  assault,  reckless
endangering, terroristic threats, harassment, and attempted criminal homicide. The state
later dismissed the charges after concluding that Applicant acted in self defense. (Item 6
at 7) Applicant no longer has contact with her ex-boyfriend. (Item 6 at 7)
One morning before going to work, Applicant’s mother, who typically took care of
Applicant’s child  while she  was at work, called  and  told her that she  was running  late.
Afraid to be late to work, Applicant contacted a neighbor who agreed to watch the child
until Applicant’s mother arrived. Applicant then left for work and told the neighbor to enter
the home through the unlocked back door.
The neighbor did not come to the home immediately, as promised. (Item 1 at 4)
While no caregivers were present, Applicant’s child, then eight years old, attempted to
cook food, and started a fire. Ultimately, the child exited the house without being harmed,
and  his  grandmother  arrived  before  the  fire  could  spread.  Applicant,  however,  was
charged  with  endangering  the  welfare  of  a  child,  and  recklessly  endangering  another
person.  After  completing  40  hours  of  court-ordered  volunteer  work,  the  charges  were
dismissed. (Item 4 at 4)
In  the  fall  of  2020,  Applicant  enrolled  her  son  in  a  private  school.  (Item  1  at  4)
Frustrated  with  the  harder  schoolwork  and  the  transfer,  in  general,  Applicant’s  son
became  rebellious,  frequently  misbehaving  in  school  and  not  performing  his  assigned
tasks.  Applicant  disciplined  him  by  periodically  taking  away  his  video  games,  his  cell
phone, his laptop computer, and his extracurricular activities. (Item 1 at 5) In June 2020,
after the principal notified Applicant that he was going to expel her son, Applicant whipped
her son five to six times with a switch. (Item 4 at 11)
The  next  day,  Applicant  told  a  classmate, who  then told a  school administrator.
Subsequently, child protective services initiated an investigation and discovered welts on
Applicant’s child’s legs that were indicative of the type of beating that he described to his
classmate.  Subsequently,  in  July  2021,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
possessing  an  instrument  of  a  crime,  simple  assault,  aggravated  assault,  and
endangering  the  welfare  of  a  child.  (Item  1  at  4)  Applicant  voluntarily  began  parenting
classes. Later, she pleaded guilty to simple assault, and agreed to continue the parenting
classes and attend therapy, as part of probation. (1 at 5) After she completed these steps,
the child protective services case was closed and the criminal case was dismissed. (Item
1 at 11)
In December 2015, Applicant was fired from her job for bringing her child to work,
as alleged in subparagraph 3.b. (Item 1 at 6) In April 2017, and later in September 2019,
Applicant  was  fired  from  her  employment  for  repeated  tardiness,  as  alleged  in
subparagraphs  3.c  and  3.d,  respectively.  (Item  1  at  6)  Applicant’s  problems  with  job
stability resulted from difficulties balancing her work schedule and care for her children,
as  a  single  parent.  Specifically,  she  could  not  afford  professional  daycare  and  was
dependent on friends and family to watch her children. If they were late to her home to
pick up her children, she was late to work, or in the situation alleged in subparagraph 3.b,
if  a child-care provider cancelled at the  last minute, she had to take  her  child to  work.
(Item 1 at 12)
In  addition  to  repeated  tardiness,  Applicant’s  employer,  as  referenced  in
subparagraph 3.d, fired her for job abandonment. Applicant denied that she abandoned
the  job  and  contended  that  she  stopped  coming  to  work  after  being  injured  in  a  car
accident.  Despite  successfully  applying for leave  under the  Family Medical  Leave Act,
her employer construed her failure to come to work as job abandonment, and denied her
request  for  unemployment  benefits.  Applicant  appealed  this  decision,  and  the
unemployment commission ruled in her favor, and concluded that her failure to come to
work did not constitute job abandonment. (Item 1 at 12)
