In Applicant’s answers, he admitted the allegation in the SOR with explanations.
His admission is adopted as a finding of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  43  years  old.  He  married  in  2001  and  has  three  children,  two  who
still live at home. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 2001 to 2005 and deployed
twice to combat areas. He was honorably discharged. He holds a master’s degree. He
has  worked  for  his  current  defense-contractor  employer  since  2008.  He  has  held  a
clearance for approximately 20 years and has never had a security incident. (Tr. 88-89,
91-92; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  in  October  2020  that  Applicant  was  charged  with  felony
assault,  misdemeanor  assault,  false  imprisonment,  two  counts  of  child  abuse,
harassment,  and  criminal  mischief.  In  March  2021,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  misdemeanor
assault  and  received  a  two-year  supervised  deferred  judgment.  The  events  leading  to
his conviction are described below. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
On  October  17,  2020,  at  approximately  11:30  pm,  police  officers  (Officers)
responded  to  a  call  for  assistance  at  Applicant’s  home.  The  call  was  made  by  one  of
Applicant’s teenage daughters. The call reported a domestic violence incident between
Applicant and his wife. (GE 2 (Affidavit of Probable Cause))
Upon  arriving  at  the  home,  the  Officers knocked  several times  before  Applicant
responded. The Officers explained to Applicant that they were responding to a reported
domestic  disturbance.  The  Officers  indicated  they  needed  to  enter  the  residence
because of the nature of the reported domestic  disturbance. According to the Officers,
Applicant  refused  their  entry  and  told  them  they  needed  a  warrant  to  enter  his  home.
The Officers entered the home even though Applicant attempted to keep them out. He
further  resisted  being  handcuffed.  Applicant’s  answers  to  Government  interrogatories
give a contrasting version of these events. Applicant stated, “When police arrived at the
scene, I was cordial and non-resistant as bodycams can show. I was very confused as
to  why  the  police  wanted  force  [sic]  entry  into  my  residence,  but  I  complied,
nonetheless.”  I find the  Officers’  report more credible than Applicant’s. (GE 2 (Affidavit
of Probable Cause; Applicant’s answer to interrogatory question 1 at attachment 1))
The Officers went to the basement and found Applicant’s wife and two daughters
locked in a bedroom. The bedroom door was damaged on the outside such that it could
not be opened from the inside. An Officer pushed the door  open. Applicant’s wife was
observed to have a cut lip, swelling on the side of her face, a bruised eye with blood in
it,  and  red  marks  on  her  neck.  Applicant’s  wife  told  the  Officers  that  she  and  her
husband got into an argument and it spiraled out of control. She was hit in the head and
she  believed  Applicant  tried  to  drag  her  down  the  stairs  by  her  neck.  One  of  the
daughters stated to the Officers that her mother told her multiple times that Applicant hit
her on the head when she was on the stairs. She and her two daughters were able to
barricade  themselves  in  a  bedroom  by  locking  the  door  and  placing  a  wooden  desk
against  the  door.  Applicant  tried  to  break  the  door  down.  One  of  the  daughters
corroborated  that  Applicant  tried  to  break  down  the  bedroom  door.  Applicant  testified
that he did not attempt to break the door down and that it was damaged weeks before
by  his  nephew.  He  also  claimed  he  did  not  strike  or  strangle  his  wife.  I  do  not  find
Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 78, 84; GE 2 (Affidavit of Probable Cause))
Based upon the observations of the Officers, the  statements by Applicant’s wife
and  two  daughters,  and  the  evidence  of  physical  injuries  to  Applicant’s  wife,  as
supported  by  the  information  contained  in  the  “Affidavit  of  Probable  Cause,”  Applicant
was  arrested  on
false
imprisonment,  child  abuse,  criminal  mischief,  and  harassment.  (GE  2  (Affidavit  of
Probable Cause))
felony  assault,  misdemeanor  assault,
the  charges  of:
In  March  2021,  Applicant  entered  into  a  plea  agreement,  whereby  he  pleaded
guilty  to  one  count  of  misdemeanor  assault  and  the  case  was  handled  as  a  deferred
judgment and sentence. Applicant’s conditions included being on supervised probation
for  two  years,  completion  of  a  domestic-violence  evaluation  and  a  substance-abuse
evaluation,  and  compliance  with  all  treatment  recommendations  from  the  evaluations.
Applicant  complied  with  the  terms  by  being  evaluated.  He  followed  those  evaluations
with  participation  in  domestic  violence  and  anger  management  treatment  from  May
2021 to February 2022. Substance-abuse assessments were completed in March 2021
(no indication of the results of this evaluation). Applicant’s supervised deferred sentence
was  converted  to  unsupervised  deferred  sentence  in  March  2022.  He  successfully
completed  all  the  terms  of  his  deferred  sentence  in  March  2023  and  his  record
concerning  this  case  was  sealed  by  the  court  at  that  time.  (GE  2  (Stipulation  For
Deferred Judgment and Sentence and Court Order; Plea Agreement; Petition and Order
to Convert Supervised to Unsupervised); AE D (Order to Seal Record))
Applicant’s  wife  testified  at  his  hearing  that  the  events  that  led  to  Applicant’s
arrest  and  conviction  were  partially  her  fault  because  she  became  intoxicated  that
evening, and threw and broke objects in their home. She also said this was a one-time
incident that had not happened before. She did not believe Applicant assaulted her that
evening,  rather  he  was  trying  to  deescalate  the  situation.  She  does  not  believe  her
children  were  put  at  risk.  She  said  that  Applicant  had  one  glass  of  champagne  that
night.  She  has  been  in  an  alcohol-treatment  program  in  the  past  that  included
medication. She is not in a program now. She claims about one year of sobriety, off and
on.  I  find  Applicant’s  wife’s  statements  to  the  police  on  the  night  of  the  incident  more
credible than her hearing testimony. (Tr. 35-38, 40, 45, 47; GE 2 (Affidavit of Probable
Cause))
In May 2021, as part of a court-ordered referral, Applicant began seeing Ms. B, a
licensed professional counselor. Applicant engaged  in 10 months of domestic-violence
therapy  and  approximately  12  weeks  of  anger-management  therapy.  He  successfully
completed his treatment regimen and Ms. B opined that he was at the “low to medium
end”  of  the  scale  regarding  future  recidivism.  Ms.  B  also  stated  Applicant  was honest,
accountable and took responsibility for his actions. She believed that alcohol contributed
to  his  action  the  night  in  question.  Contrary  to  Applicant’s  claims  at  hearing,  Ms.  B
believed he was intoxicated the night of his arrest. She concluded this based upon the
police report and his admissions to her during treatment. (Tr. 18-26; AE A-B)
Applicant testified he accepts responsibility for his actions the night of his arrest.
He maintains that he only had one glass of champagne that evening and was not drunk.
One  of  the  Officers  described  his observation  of  Applicant  upon  his  arrival  as  such,  “I
observed  [Applicant]  to  have  bloodshot  and  watery  eyes,  slurred  speech  and  difficulty
with balance.” Applicant testified that he now abstains from alcohol use. He believes the
police report describing the evening’s events is inaccurate. He learned self-control and
how  to  avoid  conflict  from  his therapy  with  Ms.  B.  (Tr.  79-80;  83-84,  90;  GE  2  (Police
Report, Case # 2020-00036075, p. 5 of 6)
Two  witnesses  who  have  worked  with  Applicant  for  approximately  12  years
testified  on  his  behalf.  Both  believed  Applicant  is  a  peaceful  person,  that  they  have
never  seen  him  abuse  alcohol,  and  that  they  would  trust  him  holding  a  security
clearance.  One  witness  stated  that  he  was  aware  of  the  incident  in  question,  but  that
knowledge did not change any of his opinions about Applicant. Applicant also presented
five
laud  his
trustworthiness, worth ethic, and reliability. (Tr. 58-63, 65-69; AE F-J)
former  coworkers  who  universally
from  coworkers  and
letters
