Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in his Answer. He is 25 years old. As
of his May 2022 security clearance application  (SCA), he was not married, and he did
not have any children. He graduated from high school in 2016 and earned a bachelor’s
degree  in  December  2021.  He  worked  part  time  as  a  self-employed  freelance  web
developer from December 2020 to December 2021. He was unemployed and financially
supported by his parents  from December 2021  to June 2022, at which time  he moved
from state A to state B and began working as a software engineer  for his employer, a
DOD contractor. He has never held a security clearance. (Items 1-4)
Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana  with  varying
from
approximately May 2015 to March 2022. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 2.a) He first used marijuana
out  of  curiosity  during his  junior  year  of  high  school  in  state  A.  He  continued  to  use  it
socially  with  friends,  at  his  or  a  friend’s  residence,  between  five  times  daily  and  five
times weekly. He also ate edible marijuana brownies once every three to six months. He
also purchased it for his personal use. After it was legalized in state A in approximately
late  2018,  he  purchased  it  from  licensed  marijuana  dispensaries  in  state  A.  He  also
purchased it from such dispensaries when he visited state B. (Items 1-4)
frequency
In March 2022, Applicant stopped using marijuana. He wanted to focus on his job
search and reduce his feelings of anxiety and lack of motivation that he associated with
his  marijuana  use.  He  stated  in  his  SCA  that  he  saw  the  negatives  of  continued
marijuana  use  once  he  was  no  longer  in  college  or  around  the  people  with  whom  he
used marijuana, and he had also become comfortable with the idea of using marijuana
upon its legalization in state A. He realized it would have been beneficial for him to stop
using  marijuana  earlier.  In  his  FORM  Response,  he  stated  that  he  highly  values
progressing in his chosen profession, which is in contradiction with using drugs, and he
reiterated  his  intention  to  abstain  from  marijuana  use.  He  underwent  pre-employment
drug screening by his employer in May 2022, and he has never been informed that he
tested positive for drugs in a drug test. (Items 1-4; AE A)
Applicant continues to associate with two friends with whom he previously used
and  purchased  marijuana,  and  one  of  these  friends  has  been  his  roommate  since
October 2022. Both friends continue to use marijuana. Although he requested that both
friends not use marijuana in his presence, he was aware, in November 2022  when he
responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  that  his  roommate  used  and  stored  marijuana-
related  paraphernalia  somewhere  in  their  residence  and  he  had  been  around  his
roommate  two  to  four  times  monthly  while  his  roommate  was  under  the  influence  of
marijuana. Despite his request, his other friend had also used marijuana in his presence
approximately once monthly. In his FORM Response, he stated that he made it clear to
his  roommate  that  there  is  to  be  no  marijuana  use  in  their  residence,  and  if  his
roommate kept marijuana in their residence, it must be concealed from him. He stated
that  his  other  friend  follows  these  conditions  when  he  visits  Applicant.  He  stated  that
both  friends  respect  his  decision  to  focus  on  progressing  in  his  career  and  abstaining
from marijuana. His parents and sibling are aware of his marijuana involvement. (Items
1-4)
Applicant  also   used   and   purchased   hallucinogens,   including   lysergic  acid
diethylamide   (LSD)   and   psilocybin mushrooms,  with   varying   frequency   and   on   various
occasions,   from  approximately   December 2015   to  September 2016.   (SOR   ¶¶   1.c, 1.d,
2.a)   He   was  introduced   to   hallucinogens  in   high   school  by  friends   with   whom   he   no
longer  associates.  He used  LSD  approximately three  times  and  psilocybin mushrooms
once,  out  of   curiosity  and   social   pressure.  He  contributed   money   so   that  his   friends
could  purchase   these   hallucinogens  from   dealers.   He   found   that  the   hallucinogens
made  him  anxious,  which he  did not enjoy,  so  he  decided  to  never use  them  again.  He
stated   in  his  FORM   Response   that  he   has  removed   himself  from   the   individuals  with
whom  he  used  hallucinogens, and  that he  remained  in contact with  one  individual,  who
“is rarely in my life, with only occasional text messages.”  (Items  1-4; AE A)
