Applicant  is  35  years old,  unmarried,  and  has  no  children.  He  attended  college
during the period of 2006 to 2011 and earned a bachelor’s degree. He took post-graduate
classes during the period of 2011 to 2015 and earned a master’s degree. He was granted
a security clearance in June 2009 in connection with summer employment with a DoD
contractor while attending college. He was granted a clearance again in 2011 following
his undergraduate graduation when he was employed by a U.S. Navy facility. He applied
for a higher-level clearance in or about 2016, and his clearance application was denied
due  to  his  prior  drug  use  after  being  granted  access  to  classified  information.  He  has
worked  for  a  U.S.  Government  contractor  since  April  2015.  He  is  presently  seeking  a
security clearance in relation to his employment. (Tr. at 9-11, 30-32; GE 1 at 38-39; GE
2 at 38-40; AE G.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The details regarding the SOR allegations set forth in paragraph 1 are as follows:
1.a. In August 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with Driving Under the
Influence of alcohol (DUI). He attended a wedding reception prior to his arrest and drank
beer for three to four hours. He went to the party intending to drive home, and he believed
he  was  sufficiently  sober  to  drive.  He  was  stopped  due  to  poor  driving,  and  his  BAC
following the arrest was 0.15%. The arrest occurred three days before he submitted his
2021 e-QIP. (Tr. at 11-16, 47; GE 2 at 38.)
Applicant  pled  guilty  to  DUI  and  was  given  a  standard  first-offender  sentence
requiring  him  to  attend  a  three-month  alcohol  education  and  awareness  course.  The
requirements of the  course  included attendance at meetings of Alcoholics  Anonymous
and Mothers Against  Drunk Driving. The state motor vehicle  department (DMV) imposed
a  three-year  restriction   on   his  license,  which   will   end   in  2025.  The   DMV   also  required
Applicant to  have  a  breathalyzer interlock device  on  his car for a  period.  (Tr. at 14-15, 42-
43; 45; AE K; AE L.)
1.b.  Applicant experienced a prior arrest related to his use of alcohol. In 2015, he
and his then-girlfriend went to a bar. Applicant believes that someone added a drug to his
drink. He wrote in the Answer that a friend accompanied  him and his former girlfriend,
and the friend also believed he was drugged. Applicant has no memory of the events of
the evening. He believes his female companion was the actual target of the drug incident.
He claims that he subsequently learned that he went to a second bar where he had an
altercation with the bar’s bouncer. He was arrested and charged with Drunk in Public. He
hired  a  lawyer,  and  the  charge  was  dropped.  Applicant  submitted  no  corroborating
testimony regarding his claim that he was drugged, such as a written statement from the
friend who accompanied him to the first bar. (Tr. at 16-18, 35, 47; AE J at 2.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The details regarding the SOR allegations set forth in paragraph 2 are as follows:
2.a.  After  having  been  granted  access  to  classified  information  during  2011,
Applicant  attended  two  concerts  with  a  friend.  The  friend  gave  him  MDMA  (Ecstasy)
during  both  concerts,  which  occurred  in  or  about  December  2014  and  October  2015.
Applicant  took  the  illegal  drug  knowing  that  to  do  so  was  inconsistent  with  his
responsibilities and commitments as a person granted access to classified information.
He asserted at the hearing that these were just two instances of poor judgment. (Tr. at
18-19, 46.)
2.b. Beginning  in high  school and  extending  through  his college  years and  his post-
graduate   education   when   he   worked   at   a   DoD  facility,  Applicant   used   marijuana.  He
claims that  his  use  during  the  period  of 2010  to  2015  was  limited  to  four occasions.  (Tr.
at 19-21; AE G.)
The record contains his 2011 security clearance application in which he wrote that
his last use was in 2007  when he  was in high  school. He asserted, “I was young and I
have  no  desire  to  use  it  again.”  He  was  granted  a  clearance.  In  his  2021  e-QIP,  he
contradicted his disclosure in his 2011 security clearance application, that his last use of
marijuana was in 2007, by disclosing that his first use during the relevant time period was
in May 2010. He partially blamed his former girlfriend for his poor judgment in using illegal
drugs.  His  current  girlfriend  uses  marijuana  on  a  regular  basis  for  medical  purposes.
Applicant denied that her use of marijuana has any effect on his abstinence. He repeated
his 2011 statement regarding  his intent  not  to  use  marijuana  in the  future  by writing,  “I
have no desire to partake in these activities now or in the future.” (GE 1 at 36-37; GE 2
at 35.)
The Government does not allege in the SOR another government agency’s (AGA)
denial  of  Applicant’s  national  security  eligibility.  The  SOR  also  does  not  cross  allege,
under Guideline J, Applicant’s criminal conduct using illegal drugs.
Paragraph 3  (Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption)
The details regarding the SOR allegations set forth in paragraph 3 are as follows:
3.a.  The  Government  cross-alleges  the  two  alcohol-related  offenses  under
Guideline J under the guideline for Alcohol Consumption.
3.b. The SOR further alleges that Applicant continues to consume alcohol despite
his two alcohol-related arrests and his completion of a three-month alcohol education and
awareness program, which was required pursuant to his DUI sentence. Applicant asserts
that he drinks much less following his 2021 DUI arrest. He claims he now only drinks a
couple times a week at dinner on weekends. He acknowledged that he sometimes drinks
to the point of intoxication and has blacked out in the past, though not more than once a
year. He last drank excessively in the summer of 2021 at a friend’s birthday party. (Tr. at
25-26; 38-39.)
Paragraph 4  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The details regarding the SOR allegations set forth in paragraph 4 are as follows:
4.a. The Government cross-alleges the SOR allegations in subparagraphs 1.a, 1.b,
2.a, 2.b, and 3.b under Personal Conduct guideline.
Mitigation
Applicant provided extensive evidence in mitigation of the security concerns raised
by his conduct as detailed above. I have thoroughly reviewed all of the evidence, and it
is unnecessary to describe it at length. In summary, he has provided written statements
of  intent  to  not  repeat  his  past  misuse  of  alcohol  and  illegal  drugs.  He  has  provided
evidence of alcohol and drug tests taken to show that, on the days he was tested and for
periods  preceding  the  tests,  he  had  not  used  alcohol  or  illegal  drugs.  He  submitted
evidence of awards, bonuses, and favorable performance evaluations he  has received
from  his employer. He  provided  copies of his bachelor’s and  master’s degrees and  his
driver’s license. Applicant’s evidence includes five reference letters in which the authors
praise Applicant’s many admirable qualities and good character. (AE A through R.)
