Applicant is  a  24-year-old employee  of  a  DoD contractor. He  has  worked  for a DoD
contractor since  February 2020.  He received  a  bachelor’s degree  in May 2021. He  has
never been  married  and  has  no   children.  (Item  2) Applicant  was granted  a  Top  Secret
clearance on October 20, 2021. (Item  4)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency, from July
2016  to  January  2023.  SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  that  Applicant  used  the  prescription  drug
Adderall, that was not prescribed to him, in October 2020. SOR ¶ 1.c alleged Applicant
used  marijuana  in  January  2023,  after  having  been  granted  access  to  classified
information.  This  allegation  was  cross-alleged  under  the  personal  conduct  guideline.
(SOR ¶ 2.a) He admitted all SOR allegations. His SOR admissions are incorporated as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
In his answers to Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his May 2021
SCA, Applicant disclosed that he illegally used marijuana with varying frequency between
July 2016 and February 2021. (Item 3) He described his illegal marijuana use as follows:
“The   nature   of   the   use   was   social  (friends  or  parties)   or  individual  (self-
medication).  The  frequency ranged  from  once  every  6  months  to  daily use
depending  on  the  time  period.  The  number of times used  is probably around
100-200.”  (Item 2 at 40)
He also stated his intent to not use marijuana in the future while it is still federally
illegal.  He wanted to progress in his career and had no desire to indulge in activities that
could hinder his opportunities. (Item 2 at 41)
During  an  August  2021  interview with a  government investigator, Applicant  was
questioned about his illegal use of marijuana.  (Item 4) He indicated he used marijuana
between  100  to  200  times,  mostly  for  recreation  and  self-medication.  He  indicated  he
stopped  using  marijuana  because  he  did  not  want  it  to  cause  problems  for  his  future
career. He would only use marijuana in the future if it became legal under federal law. He
was aware that marijuana use was illegal when he used marijuana. Applicant purchased
marijuana on several occasions from August 2018 to February 2021. In October 2020,
Applicant took Adderall without a prescription. He took the Adderall so he could focus on
a class assignment. This was the only time he took Adderall.  (Item 4)
Applicant provided his employer’s policy on the use of illegal drugs in response to
DOHA Interrogatories.  The employee handbook states: “The Company is dedicated to
providing employees with a workplace that is  free of drugs and alcohol. The Company
reserves the  right  to  test any employee  for the  use  of illegal drugs, marijuana, or alcohol
in accordance with applicable law.”  (Item  5 at 18)
In January 2023, while on vacation in a state where the use of marijuana is legal,
Applicant  and  the  friend  he  was  visiting  stopped  at  a  marijuana  dispensary.  Applicant
purchased a pack of marijuana joints for his friend as a thank you for hosting him. When
they returned to his friend’s house, a joint was being passed around and Applicant shared
the joint with his friend or friends. He claims he used due to the spontaneity of the situation
as  well  as  dealing  with  depression.  When  Applicant  returned  home,  he  booked  an
appointment with a therapist. He states he began therapy on January 22, 2023, and has
attended on a weekly basis. He did not provide documentation regarding his therapy. He
wanted to be accountable for the marijuana incident and self-reported his marijuana use
on February 10, 2023. (Item 1; Item 4)
