Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 3.a. She admitted
SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2.c, 3.a, 3.b, 4.a, 4.b, 4.d, 4.e and 4.f with explanations. She partially
admitted and denied SOR ¶ 3.c and denied ¶ 4.c. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony,
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  39  years old.  She  is a  high  school graduate  and  has  earned  some
college credits. She is twice married and divorced. She has four children, two from her
second  marriage  and  two from a  relationship.1 She receives child support for all of the
children.  She  has  been  employed by  a  federal contractor,  her current  employer,  since
2018. (Tr. 26-30; GE 1
Applicant’s mother is a Polish citizen who lives in Cuba. She moved  there in  1989
after  marrying   a   Cuban   national.  They  divorced   and   she   remarried   another  Cuban
national. They are no  longer married, but her mother remained  in Cuba. Applicant has
daily  contact  with   her through   a   cell   phone   application.   She   occasionally  will   send   her
money  and   medicine,   but  never  more  than   $1,000   annually.  Her   mother  receives  a
pension  from  Germany where  she  lived  and  worked  before  moving  to  Cuba.  When  her
mother moved  in 1989,  Applicant went with  her. Applicant was 15  years old when  she  left
Cuba.  Applicant  has no  intention  of  living  there  again.  Her mother worked  for a  short time
in the clothing business but has not been employed  for a long  time. Her mother  does not
have   any  direct  ties  to   the   government  of  Cuba.  Her  mother  visited   her  in  the   United
States  in approximately 2007, and  she  visited  her mother in  Cuba  in 2019.  (Tr. 30-31,  58-
59-62, 65-69, 110)
Applicant’s half-brother was born in Cuba and now lives in Germany. Their mother
was able to get him a Polish passport due to her citizenship, which allowed him to move.
Applicant did not know when he moved. He has a family and job in Germany as a train
conductor. She does not know how long her half-brother has lived in Germany. She does
not know if he is a Cuban citizen. Applicant communicates with him about once a month
through the cell phone application. (Tr. 59,63-65, 67-68)
SOR ¶ 4.f alleges and Applicant admitted that she and her husband at the time
filed  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  and  had  approximately  $45,000  of  debts  discharged  in
December 2008. (GE 13)
Applicant was arrested and charged with battery in 2008. She testified she could
not recall the facts but believed she and a person she was in a relationship with at the
time were both arrested because they had a fight. In August 2015, she was arrested and
charged  with  felony burglary of  an  occupied dwelling  and damage to  property-criminal
mischief over $200 and under $1,000. She broke a car side mirror when she was angry
at her partner for cheating on her. She was required to pay restitution. In August 2016,
Applicant was arrested and charged with felony aggravated assault-domestic violence,
and two charges of battery-domestic violence. All of the charges for these incidents were
dismissed/nolle prossed. Applicant admitted she was arrested and charged. She stated
that she was required to pay restitution for damage she did to her boyfriend’s vehicle. All
of  these  cases  stem  from  arguments  and  disagreements  with  her  ex-husband  or  ex-
boyfriend. She testified that her boyfriend told the police lies and none of the incidents
happened the way he said they did. She is no longer with either of them, and she asserted
that she has not been involved in any criminal activity since 2016. (Tr. 31-38, 70-80; GE
4, 5, 6, 7)
1 Applicant could not recall the dates of her first marriage and did not list it in her Electronic Questionnaires
for Investigation Processing (e-QIP).
Applicant admitted that in about May 2008 she received a court-issued judgment
of eviction for failure to pay rent (SOR ¶ 4.e). She explained in her SOR answer that she
and her then husband and father to two of her children decided to divorce. She was not
working  at  the  time,  and  he  was  paying  the  bills.  When  he  left,  she  remained  in  the
apartment and looked for a job. She said she paid the delinquent rent in order to move
into a new apartment. No documents were provided. (Tr. 43; Answer to SOR; GE 8)
SOR  ¶¶  4.c  and  4.d  are  also  court-issued  judgments  of  eviction  issued  against
Applicant for failure to pay rent in February 2017  ($1,100) and January 2014 ($1,100).
She denied in her SOR answer the February 2017 eviction judgment. Applicant testified
that she resolved both of these because she would have been unable to rent a new place
or  purchase  a  home  if  they  were  still  due.  She  did  not  provide  any  documents.  The
evidence supports the eviction judgments. (Tr. 41-45; GE 9, 10)
SOR ¶ 3.c alleged that in 2018 while living in an apartment, Applicant allowed an
unauthorized person, the father of her children, to live in her residence at different times,
which was against the rules of her lease. She was accused of having loud and boisterous
discussions  outside  of  her  apartment  unit.  Her  landlord  posted  a  written  notice  on  her
apartment that said her lease was not being renewed, and she was to vacate the premises
by August 10, 2018. She did not vacate on that date and her landlord filed an eviction
notice against her on August 15, 2018. (Tr. 53-54; GE 11)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR regarding the allegation, she said that she and
her partner argued but it was never outside of the apartment. She said she went to the
rental office to renew her lease, and she was told she was not permitted to renew it. She
said she did not know why. She was aware her lease expired, and she was required to
leave  before  then.  She  said  she  was  in  the  process  of  purchasing  a  house  and  was
staying in the apartment until the lease expired. She said she was unable to pay her rent
before she moved out, but she was taking care of the debt. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant  testified  that  the  father  of  her  children  was  not  listed  on  the  lease  as
required. She said because she was in the process of purchasing a home, she was saving
her money to put a down payment on the house and was not paying her rent. She decided
to not pay the rent and instead use the money to fix her credit and make a down payment.
She figured the landlord could use her security deposit instead. She purchased the home
in July 2019. She was issued an eviction notice in July 2019. She resolved the delinquent
payments to the landlord in July 2022. At that time, she was in the process of selling her
first home and purchasing a new one. She took out a loan of $12,000 to pay some debts
to improve her credit so she would qualify to purchase a new home. She then sold her
first house and used the profits to repay the loan. She then repaid the eviction debt that
she  incurred  in  2019.  She  provided  a  document  to  show  that  she  resolved  the  2019
eviction  debt  (SOR  ¶  4.b).  The  document  she  provided  is  from  a  debt  collector.  She
testified she did not pay the debt when it was owed because she did not have the money.
She testified that she took the loan to clear her negative credit history and resolve the
financial  issues  that  were  raised  by  the  government  with  regards  to  her  public  trust
position. She contacted a company to help her resolve her debts after she received the
SOR. She did not receive any credit counseling. (Tr. 39-42, 45-47, 51-54, 98-108; GE 12;
AE D)
The debt in SOR ¶ 4.a is for a repossessed vehicle Applicant purchased for her
partner  in  2016.  It  was  repossessed  the  same  year.  Her  partner  was  to  make  the
payments.  He  did  not.  She  testified  that  she  settled  the  debt  in  September  2022  for
$1,604. She provided a document with proof of the amount paid and the debt is settled.
She  testified  that  when  she  received  notice  that  her  debts  were  a  concern  regarding
obtaining a public trust clearance she acted to resolve the debt.  (Tr. 41, 47-51; GE 14;
AE A, E)
In  January  2018,  Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF 86). In response to Section 22-Police Record, which asked if in the past
seven years she had been issued a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in court in a
criminal proceeding; or had been arrested by any police officer, sheriff, marshal, or any
other type of law enforcement official; or had she been charged, convicted or sentenced
to any crime in any federal, state, local, military, or non-U.S. court. Applicant responded
“No.” (GE 1)
Under  Section  26-Delinquency  Involving  Routine  Accounts-it  asked  in  the  last
seven years if Applicant was evicted for non-payment. She responded “No.” This section
was not alleged in the SOR and will not be considered for disqualifying purposes but may
be  considered  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  in  making  a  credibility
determination, and in a whole-person analysis.
Section 28 – Non-criminal court actions asked Applicant if in the last seven years
she had been a party to any public record civil court action not listed elsewhere in the
form. She responded “No.” (GE 1)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  on  February  26,  2019.
Applicant  completed  government
interrogatories  on  December  3,  2020.  The
interrogatories included a copy of her subject interview with the government investigator
from  February  2019.  Questions  in  the  interrogatories  asked  if  the  subject  interview
accurately  reflected  the  information  she  provided  during  the  interview.  She  indicated
“Yes.” It asked her to identify each and every portion of the report that is not accurate and
make corrections as necessary, so the report accurately reflected her interview. She did
not make any corrections. The interrogatories also provided space to provide additional
information  regarding  matters  discussed  during  her  interviews.  She  did  not  provide
additional information. It also stated that subject to any corrections, additions, or deletions
she may have made to the report, did the investigator’s summary accurately reflect her
interview.  Applicant  responded  “Yes.”  The  interrogatories  finally  asked  subject  if  she
agreed  with  and  adopt  the  report  as  an  accurate  summary  of  her  interviews.  She
responded  “Yes.” She then  signed  the  statement  indicating that the foregoing was true
and correct and that she had read the enclosed report of her interviews and either found
the report to be accurate or she amended it so it is now accurate. (GE 2)
After being  questioned  by Department  Counsel  at  her hearing,  Applicant  testified
that she  did  not agree with  the government investigator’s summary of her interview. She
said she  did  not know how important it was to  answer the  questions correctly for her job
at the  time  she  completed  the  SF  86.  Had  she  known  how  important her job  would  be  she
would have  been  more careful. (Tr. 89-91)
During Applicant’s background interview with a government investigator, she was
asked to confirm her answer in the Police Records section of the SF 86 where she did
not  disclose  any  of  her  arrests  by  the  police.  She  confirmed  her  “no”  response  to  the
investigator.  She was then confronted with her arrest from August 2016 (as noted above).
She  told  the  investigator  that  she  omitted  this  arrest  because  she  did  not  want  her
application denied, and she did not want to be denied employment due to it. Applicant
was also confronted with the August 2015 arrest (as noted above). She gave the same
response  for  why  it  was  omitted  because  she  did  not  want  her  application  denied  or
employment denied because of it. (GE 2)
At her hearing, Applicant testified that she failed to disclose her prior arrests by the
police  in  2015  and  2016  because  she  misunderstood  the  questions,  and  she  was
confused. She said her command of the English language is not good. She said she was
not convicted and did not go to jail. During her interview with the government investigator,
she explained that after she was arrested, she spent two days in jail each time. She said
someone  sat  beside  her  when  she  completed  the  application  and  was  there  to  help
explain what the questions meant if she needed help, but Applicant did not seek help for
the questions involving whether she had been arrested. Applicant testified that she had
concerns  because  she  was  not  sure  what  to  answer.  She  said  she  told  the  Facility
Security  Officer  (FSO)  after  she  had  completed  the  application  that  she  did  not
understand some questions and may have answered incorrectly about whether she had
been arrested or convicted of an offense. Applicant said the FSO told her that it was okay
and “it happens.” (Tr. 94) She said she was not told to correct it. She said she is open
about having been arrested. She also testified that she was concerned about getting the
job. She said there was no one to help her and she was told she had to complete the
application and interrogatories by herself. (Tr. 37-39, 81-84, 93-97)
Applicant was asked why she told the government investigator that the reason she
omitted her prior arrests was because she was concerned that her application would be
denied,  and  she  would  not  get  the  job.  She  denied  she  made  this  statement  to  the
investigator. She testified that if she did not answer the questions correctly it was because
she did not understand the questions and did not understand how important it was for the
job. She testified that she needed the job and was just filling out the application as was
required. When asked why she failed to disclose under Section 28 her civil court actions
for her evictions. She  repeated  that she  did not recall  answering  “No” and  she did not
understand the question. (Tr. 85-89)
I did not find Applicant’s testimony and explanations credible for why she failed to
disclose the required information. I find she deliberately failed to disclose on her SF 86
her prior arrests and civil court actions.
Applicant testified that she has worked for five years without incident for her current
employer. She has received awards for her performance.  Applicant provided copies of
the  awards  she  has  received  from  her  employer  during  her  tenure.  She  said  she  is
financially stable. She is a single mother taking care of four children. She has worked to
make a better life for her children. She said she did not know how important her job would
be for her and if she had, she would have paid more attention to the application process.
(AE F)
