In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a  through
1.h.  (Item   3)  He  also  provided   mitigating   information.   (Id.)  Applicant’s  admissions  are
accepted  as findings of fact.  Additional findings follow.
Applicant is a  24-year-old systems engineer who  is employed  by a  DOD contractor.
(Item   4   at   5,  15)  In   2017,   he   graduated   from   high   school.   (Id.   at   13)  In   2021,   he   was
awarded  a  bachelor’s degree. (Id. at 14) He is not married, and  he  does not have  any
children. (Id. at 24-25)  He disclosed  his  involvement with  marijuana, LSD, cocaine, and
nitrous  oxide, and  his abuse  of prescription  drugs  Adderall,  Xanax,  and  Vyvanse  on  his
SCA.  (Id. at 36-42)  He  has  never been  arrested. (Id. at  35)  He  does  not  abuse  alcohol.
(Id. at 42-43) He  does not  have any  disclosable delinquent  financial accounts.  (Id.  at  43-
44) He has not had  any security violations. (Id. at 44-45) The  information  provided  during
his Office  of Personnel Management interview  about his drug  involvement and  substance
misuse was consistent with his disclosures on his SCA. (Item  5)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The SOR states as follows:
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  allege  from  about  December  2019  to  about  May  2022,
Applicant used the prescription medications Adderall and Vyvanse with varying frequency
without a prescription.
SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d  allege  from  about  August  2013  to  about  January  2022,
Applicant purchased, used, and sold marijuana with varying frequency.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges from about December 2019 to about January 2022, Applicant
used, purchased, and sold cocaine with varying frequency.
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges in about November 2019, Applicant used and purchased Xanax,
which was not prescribed to him.
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges in about March 2019, Applicant used lysergic acid diethylamide
(LSD).
SOR ¶ 1.h alleges in about February 2018, Applicant used nitrous oxide.
Applicant used Adderall and Vyvanse when he was studying. (Item 3 at 1-2) He
maintains  a  healthy  lifestyle.  (Id.)  He  engages  in  daily  exercise,  eats  a  careful  diet,
manages his time, and maintains a consistent sleep schedule. (Id.) He acknowledged his
marijuana,  cocaine,  and  Xanax  uses  were  not  healthy  and  could  adversely  affect  his
future. (Id. at 1-3) His marijuana purchases and sales averaged “no more than 30 dollars,
if not less.” (Id. at 2) He purchased and sold cocaine on 7 to 13 occasions. (Id. at 3) He
used Xanax on one occasion. (Id.) He used LSD and nitrous oxide on one occasion when
he  was in college.  (Id.)  He  acknowledged  that  “LSD  is extremely powerful and  heavily
impairs the  user.”  (Id.) He said, “Nitrous oxide  is an  extremely damaging  drug  to  one’s
brain, and I can’t believe how stupid I was to try it even once.” (Id.) He does not intend to
use, purchase, or sell marijuana or cocaine or abuse prescription drugs in the future. (Id.
at 2-4)
Applicant  wants  to  be the  best  possible  employee.  (Item  3  at  4)  He  passed  his
employer’s urinalysis test around July or early August 2022. (Id.) He volunteered to submit
to future urinalysis tests to establish he is not using illegal drugs. (Id.) He concluded his
statement: “I love and have so much passion for my job, and I hope I am granted this
clearance so that I continue helping and pursuing our company’s mission.” (Id.)
In  the  FORM,  Department  Counsel  described  Applicant’s  security-significant
behavior and noted the absence of persuasive mitigation. The FORM informed Applicant
that he had 30 days from the receipt of the FORM “in which to submit a documentary
response setting forth objections, rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, or explanation,
as appropriate. . . . If [Applicant does] not file any objections or submit any additional
information . . . [his] case will be assigned to an Administrative Judge for a determination
based  solely” on  the  evidence  set  forth  in  this  FORM.  (FORM at 6 (emphasis added))
Applicant did not provide any response to the FORM.
