After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 51 years old, never married, and has one son 12 years old. (Item 4.)
She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1996.  (Item  5.)  From  November  2009  to  January
2012, she was unemployed. From August 2011 to October 2011 and from January 2012
to April 2012, she worked full time as a real estate consultant but left when that employer
closed.  From  March  2012  to  January  2020,  she  was  self-employed  as  a  part-time
technical trainer. Since January 2020, she has worked for a defense contractor. (Item 4.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant failed to file federal income tax
returns for tax years 2014 through and including 2021 and state income tax returns for
tax  years  2014  through  and  including  2021.  (Item  1.)  Applicant  admitted  those
allegations. She said the accountant she hired “disappeared with [her] money and [her]
documents.” She “is in the process of finding a new accountant.” (Item 3.)  Her Answer
was similar to the explanation she gave in her application for a public trust position, where
she disclosed those failures to file for tax years 2017 and 2018:
I  was  working   on   filing   and   paying.  Was  living   with   someone   who
intimately [sic] was diagnosed  with  Bipolar. Life  was a  mess  for him, my son
and  me. We  no  longer  live  together (as of 8/18). As a  resuIt  I  didn’t have
enough   income   needed.  I   spent  the   year  getting   back   on   my   feet.   Need
money to  hire  someone  to  help,  steady income  will  allow that to  happen.
(Item  4.)
Applicant  provided  further  information  in  her  July  21,  2020  Personal  Subject
Interview (PSI): “[T]he reason for not filing was because she was working part time and
not working a lot. [She] was also having problems with her ex-boyfriend . . . . She got her
current job and due to COVID-19 has been furloughed, but intended to get this taken care
of,” She has no agreement with the IRS and anticipates she will have filed by November
2020 or after returning to work. (Item 5.)
Law and Policies
When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a public trust position clearance, an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15, then  the  applicant is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel . . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
