In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a, 2.b,
and 2.c. (Item 4) He also provided clarifying and mitigating information. (Id.) Applicant’s
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant is a 45-year-old senior analyst who is seeking employment with a DOD
contractor. (Item 5 at 5; Item 6 at 3) In 2014, he was awarded an associate degree, and
in 2017, he was awarded a bachelor’s degree. (Id. at 9) He has been married since 2003,
and his three children are ages 6, 17, and 23. (Item 5; Item 6 at 3, 5) He did not disclose
any arrests, abuse of alcohol, possession or use of illegal drugs, or security violations.
(Item 5)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Personal Conduct
The SOR states as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a alleges Applicant used marijuana on various occasions between 1996
and November 2020. (Item 3) In  his SOR response  he  said, “I admit I used  THC but it
was not between 1996-2020. I tried it in 1996 in college and never did it again until 2020.”
(Item 4) Tetrahydrocannabinol or THC is the psychoactive ingredient of marijuana.
SOR  ¶   2.a  alleges  in  about  November  2020  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his
employment with S for failing a random drug test by testing positive for marijuana and for
attempting  to  falsify the  results of a drug  test.  (Item  3) In  his SOR response  he said,  “I
admit that.” (Item 4)
SOR ¶  2.b  alleges on April 7, 2022, Applicant responded to the question on his
SCA about why he left employment that he held from August 2014 to November 2020
and stated he was laid off because of COVID. (Item 3; Item 5 at 12) He deliberately failed
to disclose the information in SOR ¶ 2.a. (Item 3) In his SOR response he said, “I admit
that  I  wasn’t  truthful.  Everything  was  moving  so  fast  I  should  have  been  more
accountable.” (Item 4)
SOR ¶  2.c alleges on April 7, 2022, Applicant responded to the question on his
SCA about illegal use of drugs and controlled substances in the previous seven years,
and  he  stated,  “No.”  (Item  3)  He  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  his  marijuana  use  in
November 2020. (Id.) In his SOR response he said, “I admit I had THC in my system, and
yes, I should have answered yes.” (Item 4)
In  Applicant’s  May  10,  2022  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  personal
subject interview (PSI), he confirmed the information he reported in the SCA, that is, he
was laid off from his employment with S due to COVID. (Item 6 at 4) He said he was not
involved with illegal drugs in the previous seven years. (Id.)
In  Applicant’s June  13,  2022  OPM  PSI,  the  investigator confronted  Applicant with
the   allegation   that   he  was terminated   from   employment   with  S  “for attempting  to   falsify
the   results  of   a   random   drug   test  by  hiding   a   bag   of  urine   within  his  clothing.  Subject
ultimately failed  the  drug  test and  tested  positive for marijuana. Subject  was terminated
11/2020  and  is not eligible  for rehire.” (Item  6  at 10)  Applicant said  he  failed  to  list this
information  on  his SCA  due  to  “oversight.” (Id.)  Applicant told the  OPM  investigator that
when   he   went  to   provide   the   urine   sample,   the   observer noticed   a   bulge   in one  of  his
pockets. (Id.) Applicant said he  “accidentally left pill bottle in his cargo pants pocket. The
pill bottle  contained  two  high  blood  pressure pills.” (Id.) Applicant  threw the  pill bottle  in
the   trash   as  instructed.  (Id.)   He   explained   the   positive  test   result  was  due   to   eating
“gummy  snacks  that  were   laced   with   THC.”  (Id.  at  11)   He  claimed   that  at  the   time   he
consumed   the   gummy   snacks   he   was  unaware  of  the   presence   of  the   THC.  (Id.)   He
promised   not  to   use   marijuana   in   the   future.  (Id.)   He  said   he   does  not  associate   with
marijuana users. (Id.)
Applicant concluded his SOR response with the following statement:
I take  full  responsibility for my  actions of  not holding  myself  accountable  and
being   upfront  with   the   truth   during   the   security  questions.   I  have   been
ashamed  of  myself because  I knew better and  chose  not to  and  for that  I
fully understand  why I was rejected.  I can promise you  and myself  that this
will  never happen  again  and  that  I have  taken  the  necessary measures to
ensure that it doesn’t. It  is very important to  me  that you  all  trust me  to  do
what I am suppose[d] to do as well as honoring my commitments.
I  let   myself  down,   and   more   importantly  I  let   my  wife   down,  and   I  let   my
company down and  I regret the  whole incident.  I am  deeply embarrassed  to
have  put myself as well  as the  agents through  something  that could have
been   avoided  by being   truthful,   but I  was   not  thinking   clearly at   the  time,
and  I have  taken  full  responsibility for my actions. I would be  honored  to  be
able to  get  my  security clearance, but I also  understand  I  do  not get  to  make
that decision based  [on] my decisions. (Item  4 at 3)
In  the  FORM,  Department  Counsel  described  Applicant’s  security-significant
behavior and noted the absence of persuasive mitigation. The FORM informed Applicant
that he had 30 days from the receipt of the FORM “in which to submit a documentary
response setting forth objections, rebuttal, extenuation, mitigation, or explanation,
as appropriate. . . . If [Applicant does] not file any objections or submit any additional
information . . . [his] case will be assigned to an Administrative Judge for a determination
based  solely” on  the  evidence  set  forth  in  this  FORM.  (FORM at 9 (emphasis added))
Applicant did not provide any response to the FORM.
