Applicant, 31, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company, as an
engineer since August 2020. He completed a security clearance application, his first, in
September 2020. He provided detailed disclosures about his use and purchase of illegal
drugs and misuse of a prescription drug between 2009 and 2020. He also disclosed a
June  2019  citation  for  possession  of  marijuana.  The  investigation  confirmed  this
information and did not uncover any additional derogatory information. Applicant’s history
of illegal drug use and purchase, as well as his drug-related criminal history is alleged in
the SOR. (GE 1)
Between 2010 and May 2020, Applicant completed his undergraduate, graduate,
and post-graduate studies at a prestigious university in State 1. During the course of his
education, he recreationally used illegal drugs. Applicant used marijuana a few times per
month. He also purchased the drug on a few dozen occasions to include purchasing the
drug  at  dispensaries  in  states  where  doing  so  was  legal.  He  used  hallucinogenic
mushrooms and LSD on four occasions each. He also admitted purchasing these drugs.
He  used  cocaine  three  times.  Most  of  Applicant’s  drug  use  occurred  in  social  settings
such  as  music  festivals  and  camping  trips  with  friends.  Occasionally,  he  would  use
marijuana alone. He also used Adderall without a prescription at least 10 times during his
education to help him focus, so that he could meet strict deadlines, including preparing
his dissertation defense. (Tr. 21, 24-25, 28, 31-39, 60; GE 1)
In June 2019, Applicant, who is also a musician, was traveling with his band when
their van was stopped in State 2 as part of drug interdiction stop. He voluntarily told the
officer about the THC cartridge in his bag. Applicant received a citation. He was placed
in a pre-trial diversion program in November 2019. After completion of the program, the
charges  were  dismissed  in  May  2020.  Applicant  had  the  charges  expunged  from  his
record in June 2020. (Tr. 40-42, 61-68, 74; AE A-C)
Initially, Applicant envisioned a career in academia. However, as he came to the
end of his post-graduate studies, he started exploring options in private industry. In doing
so, he realized that any employment in his area of study would require a pre-employment
drug test. He also realized that future illegal drug use would be incompatible with such a
career path. In May 2020, as he completed his doctorate, he decided to stop using illegal
drugs.  He  informed  his  wife  and  friends  of  his  decision.  Although  some  of  his  friends
continue to use illegal drugs, they do not use them in Applicant’s presence. (Tr. 26-27,
51, 70-73, 76)
As evidence of his commitment to abstain from illegal drug use, Applicant attended
a 16-hour drug and alcohol awareness class. He voluntarily submitted to four urinalysis
tests between June 2021 and September 2022, all of which were negative for illegal drug
use.  He  also  signed  a  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  future  use  of  illegal  drugs,
agreeing to automatic revocation of security clearance eligibility in the case of future use.
Applicant’s current job also has a random urinalysis program. (Tr. 43-47, 74; AE D-F)
Now married, Applicant focuses his attention on projects around the home he owns
with  his  wife.  He  occasionally  performs  as  a  musician.  As  a  working  professional,  the
motivation  to  use  Adderall to  focus  no  longer exists.  As  a  student, he  was  required  to
complete all his work on his own. Now, he has a team of coworkers and managers to ask
for help and support when needed. (Tr. 30)
Applicant  provided  eight  character  letters  from  family,  friends,  and  professional
contacts. Both Applicant’s wife and his close friend attest that he has not used drugs since
2020.  Both  also  attest  to  his  intention  to  abstain  from  illegal  drug  use  in  the  future.  A
professor with whom Applicant worked for as a research assistant discussed Applicant’s
work on a research  project funded by DOD. He  described Applicant  as  being  “honest,
ethical,  and  extremely  dependable  with  respect  to  entrusted  responsibilities.”  These
sentiments were echoed by Applicant’s long-time friends and family members who also
wrote letters on his behalf. (AE G)
