Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.d and 2.f. He partially admitted and
denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b. He denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d, 2.a
through 2.c, 2.e, 2.g, and 3.a. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old. He earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees. He married
in  2004  and  divorced  in  2015.  He  has  a  15-year-old  child  from  the  marriage.  He  has
worked  for  federal  contractors  since  approximately  2007  and  for  the  same  federal
contractor since 2011. He has held a security clearance during this time without incident.
He was also employed part-time as an adjunct instructor for a college from 2006 to 2019.
(Tr. 41-43; GE 1)
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant started college when he was 18 years old, and he pledged a fraternity.
Alcohol use  was  part of  the  culture of  fraternity  membership  and  the  first  time  he  was
intoxicated was on pledge day in 1993. Before then he had experimented with alcohol
use infrequently but was never intoxicated. He lived in the fraternity house as a freshman
and every event at the fraternity house involved alcohol. He testified that while in college
he  regularly  used  alcohol  and  became  intoxicated.  He  said  that  while  he  was  married
from 2004 to 2015 he used alcohol on a limited basis but there were times he used it in
excess and to the point of intoxication. (Tr. 43-46)
In 1993, at the age of 18, Applicant was arrested and charged with consumption
of alcohol by a minor. He was a passenger in a car when it was pulled over by the police.
He was given a field sobriety test and failed. He pleaded no contest and was required to
attend a class for those charged with driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol and to
perform community service. He completed both requirements. (Tr. 46-47; GE 3)
In 1995, Applicant was driving from a club to his fraternity house. He was stopped
by  the  police,  given  a  field  sobriety  test,  and  failed.  A  blood  alcohol  test  was  not
administered. He was charged with DUI. He pleaded guilty, was required to attend DUI
school, perform community service, and was on probation. He completed the terms of the
sentence. (Tr. 47-48; GE 3)
In  1999,  Applicant  was  driving  to  his  fraternity  house  after  leaving  a  party.  He
completed a U-turn too fast and was stopped by police. He completed a field sobriety test
and was arrested because he was impaired. He was 24 years old at the time. He was
charged with DUI. He pleaded guilty. As part of his sentence, he was required to complete
a 12-week alcohol abuse treatment program, perform community service, and he was on
probation. Applicant credibly testified that since his 1999 DUI arrest and conviction, he
has had no additional police involvement regarding his alcohol use. He testified that he
was young and made some bad decisions. (Tr. 48-51; GE 3)
Applicant testified that to comply with his sentence, from April 2000 to September
2000, he attended the court-ordered group therapy as an outpatient. He said the therapy
was not specific to alcohol abuse. He successfully completed the program and did not
receive a diagnosis. There was no aftercare required. He testified that at that time he did
not feel like he needed to attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). He said he tempered his
alcohol consumption but continued to drink. He finished college and moved on with his
life and left the fraternity scene. (Tr. 51-53, 130)
Applicant  testified  that  in  February  2019  he  changed  his  alcohol  consumption
because he thought he had a problem. He discussed it with his fiancée. He made the
decision  that  day  to  attend  an  alcohol  recovery  program  and  entered  the  program  the
same day. He said that he and his fiancée had arguments that were fueled by alcohol.
When they moved in together his alcohol consumption increased. She would drink two to
four  drinks  a  night  and  alcohol  was  part  of  their  relationship.  His  decision  to  attend
treatment ended their relationship. He said he did not think she wanted to live in a sober
house. He was in treatment for 30 days. During that time, she ended the relationship and
told him not to return to the house. They had been together for three years. He said the
break-up was emotionally crushing. (Tr. 55-58, 125-128)
After completion of the program, he was aware that he should not consume alcohol
and it was recommended he attend AA. He attended AA and leaned on the community
during his breakup and attended additional meetings. He said it was difficult to stay sober.
When he completed the rehabilitation program, he said he was never told of any type of
diagnosis. He attended AA for about a year until approximately March 2020 and stopped
because  he  was  not  comfortable  with  the  spiritual  aspect  of  AA.  Instead,  he  began  to
participate in Smart Recovery, which is an alternative to AA that has more of a cognitive
psychological  and scientific  approach  to  sobriety.  Participants  develop a  community of
people and meet regularly to analyze behavior and actions. He started by attending three
meetings a week, and since the spring of 2020, he attends weekly meetings. He finds it
is  easier  for  him  to  subscribe  to  their  program  than  to  AA.  He  did  not  receive  an
independent  evaluation  regarding  a  diagnosis  of  bipolar  disorder  while  in  treatment.
Applicant testified he told the treatment facility that he was being treated for the condition.
(Tr. 58-68, 139-144; AE E)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  April  2019.  He
questioned  some  of  the  information  the  investigator  included  in  the  summary  of  his
interview.  He  said  he  does  not  think  he  would  have  been  able  to  estimate  how  many
drinks he had per occasion while in college. He denied 6 to 12 beers every weekend. He
admitted that from December 2017 to February 2019 he was consuming alcohol three to
six times a week and towards the end of this period it was between 50-75 ml of vodka
each time. (Tr. 53-55, 132)
Applicant  admitted   he   relapsed   in  July  2021.  He  testified   that  he   had   not  really
accepted  that he  had  a  problem  or that he  was an  alcoholic. He was going  through  the
motions to  see  if he  could control himself. He started to  drink and  was unable to  stop for
several  days.  In   September  2021,  he   tried   to   drink  again  because   he   was  still   not
convinced that he did  not have control. He  binge  drank for several days.  (Tr. 68-72, 138-
139)
Applicant testified that on September 13, 2021, he had an epiphany and realized
he could not keep doing what he was doing. He committed to complete sobriety that day.
He acknowledged that he tested the waters before because he did not want to believe he
had no control over his alcohol consumption. He thought he could control it but could not.
He testified that he knows he can totally abstain, but if he has one drink, he cannot stop.
He  credibly  testified  that  he  will not  consume  alcohol  ever  again. He  accepts he  is an
alcoholic, and he will always be in recovery. He signed a letter of intent never to consume
alcohol  again.  He  admitted  that  in  the  past  he  may  have  said  he  would  not  consume
alcohol again and did, but when he made those statements, he had not accepted the fact
that he is not in control and is an alcoholic. He now has. (Tr. 68-76; AE K)
Psychological Conditions
From  about  August  2017  to  May  2018,  Applicant  received  treatment  from  a
counseling center. He was seen by Dr. T.S., a psychologist. He said he was in a new
relationship  and  was  having  anxiety.  Dr.  T.S.  diagnosed  him  with  adjustment  disorder
with  mixed  anxiety,  and  depressed  mood.  He  saw  her  minimally  once  a  month  and
sometimes twice a month. (Tr. 76-78, 82, 118-119; AE D)
Applicant testified that he received  treatment from J.A., a  nurse practitioner with  a
psychiatric  specialty,   from   about  April  2018   to   November  2020.  He  disputes  that  he
refused  medication  and  said  he  took all  prescribed  medication  as  required. He  said J.A.
diagnosed  him  with  bipolar disorder and  prescribed  him  between  10  and  15  medications.
He testified  that  some  of medications had  serious side  effects,  others  required  monitoring
through  blood  work; and  some  made  him  feel catatonic. His fiancée  at the  time  told him
he  needed  to  have  J.A. check his medications. J.A. conducted  her  work through  email
and changed  his medication  multiple times. He decided he could not accept her trial and
error approach. He and  J.A. frequently discussed  his medications and  dosages.  When
J.A. diagnosed  him  with  bipolar disorder,  he  said it was a  surprise  because  he  had  never
had   a   manic  episode.   He  researched   the   different  levels  of  bipolar   disorder,   and   he
believed   his  symptoms  could   be   attributed   to   other  psychological   disorders.  He   was
skeptical of  the  diagnosis but  agreed  to  continue  on  medication.  He testified  that J.A.  was
aware  that  he  consumed  alcohol but  not that  he  had  a  problem.  She  never mentioned
that a  potential alcohol  use  disorder could possibly mimic symptoms of bipolar disorder.
(Tr. 60, 78-83, 93, 119-125, 135-137; GE  4)
Applicant testified that he informed Dr. T.S. of J.A.’s diagnosis of bipolar disorder.
He  said  she  was  surprised  and  warned  him  to  be  cautious.  He  considered  getting  a
second opinion but thought he would give the medication a try. He testified  he always
followed J.A.’s directions when she changed his medications. He said he would continue
to  take  the  prescribed  medications  until  something  new  was  prescribed.  In  2020,  he
stopped seeing J.A. because she left the practice, and her new practice did not accept
his insurance. (Tr. 78-83)
In   December  2020,  Applicant  began   seeing   R.J.,   a   nurse  practitioner  with   a
psychiatric specialty. He  said she  did not believe  he  had  a  bipolar disorder,  and  she  did
not  treat   him   for  it.  Her  concern  was   his  insomnia.  She   prescribed   medication   for  his
insomnia.  He  testified  that  she  never diagnosed  him  with  bipolar disorder. He  informed
R.J. that he  had  gone  to  alcohol treatment  and  that he  had  an  alcohol use  disorder. He is
on  two  medications she  prescribed  that are not habit  forming  and  do  not interfere  with  his
commitment  to  sobriety. In  June  2021,  R.J.  left  the  practice  and  Applicant was transferred
as a  patient to M.B, a  nurse practitioner with  a psychiatric specialty.  (Tr. 83-89)
Applicant  continues   to   take   two   medications   prescribed   by  M.B.   and   she   has
changed   his  dosage   because   he   wants   to   take   as   little  medication   as   possible   and
minimize side effects.  He testified  that M.B. has not diagnosed him  with bipolar disorder.
She  is aware  of his past alcohol abuse.  A statement  was  provided  by M.B.  (March  18,
2022) verifying  that  Applicant  has  been  under her  care  since  June  2021  and  meets  with
her monthly. He has been  consistently compliant with  his treatment plan  and  reports long-
term   stability  at  current  medication   dosages.   He  has  diagnoses   of   sleep   disorder  and
generalized  anxiety disorder. She  described  him  as asymptomatic  for  several consecutive
months.  He is steadily cooperative, euthymic, clear, alert, insightful and  organized.  She
also noted  Applicant had  granted  permission  to release  his medical information,  and  she
was available to  provide  additional information. He plans to  continue  his treatment with
M.B. (Tr. 89-95, 148; AE C)
Applicant testified that when he was being treated by J.A. he felt terrible. He said
since being treated by M.B. he is able to function and feels balanced. He described his
functioning level as the difference between night and day, from when he was being treated
by J.A. He now has his issues under control with the treatment provided by M.B. He has
followed  her  treatment  plan  and  credibly  testified  that  he  would  not  discontinue  any
medication without consultation from a medical professional. (Tr. 89-95)
Since September 2022, Applicant also has been a patient of J.B, a licensed clinical
social worker. He meets with her at least monthly and sometimes twice a month. He sees
her about dealing with his sobriety and how to lead a sober life and potentially having a
romantic  relationship  in  the  future.  She  provided  a  letter  stating  Applicant  has  been
consistently compliant with his treatment plan and attendance. He is engaged in therapy
to better himself in both his personal and professional life and relationships. He continues
to exhibit long-term stability in his sobriety and medication compliance. (AE J)
Applicant testified that he is not afraid to seek help and has been proactive since
2017 with regards to his mental health. He is committed to maintaining his medication
and treatment. If he believed he was bipolar he would seek the necessary treatment and
follow prescribed protocol. (Tr. 108-110)
The  DOD requested  that Applicant participate  in a  psychological evaluation  by  a
government-approved  psychologist. In  June  2021,  he  was evaluated  by Dr.  B. Applicant
testified that he  had a  43-minute virtual meeting using  the Zoom  platform.  Dr. B  sent him
a   computer   link  to   complete   a   multiple   choice   test  that  took   approximately  an   hour  to
complete. He described  her as clinical and  not open. He did  not feel comfortable with  her
because  of her demeanor, so  he  was not comfortable discussing  private  matters in his
life  with  her. She  made  no  attempt to  make  him  feel comfortable.  Her questions were  not
open   ended,   but  rather  required   a   yes   or no   answer,   so   that   is  the   type   of   answer  he
provided. He  said  he  told Dr. B  that J.A.  had  diagnosed  him  with  bipolar disorder, but  later
R.J.  did   not  agree   with   the   diagnosis.   He  testified   that  Dr.   B   did   not  discuss  bipolar
disorder with  him.  He  said he  was honest,  but not  open  because  of the  way  she  conducted
the  interview. He answered the questions she asked. He disputed several of the facts as
inaccurate that Dr. B used in  her evaluation. (Tr. 95-104)
Dr. B noted that Applicant was cooperative but his answers were inconsistent with
medical documentation. She administered the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI).
The  validity  scales  indicated  considerable  defensiveness.  She  said,  “[H]e  appears
motivated to portray himself as being exceptionally free of common shortcomings to which
most individuals will admit.” She believed due to this, his PAI clinical scale is unlikely to
be a valid reflection of his current level of functioning. She found his treatment motivation
is a great deal lower than of typical individuals being seen in treatment settings. (GE 5)
Dr. B diagnosed Applicant based on her interview, a review of available records
and an analysis of current psychological results as follows: bipolar disorder, unspecific;
generalized anxiety disorder; and alcohol use disorder, severe. She could not determine
if  he  had  type  I  or  type  II  bipolar  disorder. She  noted  he  had  been  noncompliant  with
treatment for both anxiety and bipolar disorder. She noted he was not forthcoming with
information about his alcohol use, which suggested he is unlikely to be fully in recovery.
She noted his lack of candor. She believed he was at high risk of relapse for his alcohol
use disorder, as well as manic and/or depressive episodes. She believed he has been
dishonest, making his trustworthiness questionable. She found he may not follow rules
and regulations and had multiple conditions that could impact his conduct. She found he
could display poor judgment and reliability and that he was at risk for impulsive behavior.
His  ability  to  safeguard  classified  information  is  likely  to  be  compromised  and  his
prognosis is poor. It does not appear she contacted Applicant’s treating therapist or nurse
practitioner or any of the others. (GE 5)
On February 10, 2023, Applicant was evaluated by Dr. C, a licensed psychologist.
She noted that she was privy to the SOR allegations and a reported diagnosis of bipolar
disorder, general anxiety disorder, and alcohol use disorder. She also noted that it was
alleged  that  Applicant  reportedly  had  been  dishonest  to  Dr.  B  about  his mental health
treatment  and  alcohol  use  that  called  into  question  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and
good  judgment.  Dr.  C conducted  her  examination  through  video-teleconference.  Dr.  C
asked Applicant his perspective about the allegations in the SOR, and he indicated that
it all started when he checked himself in for alcohol rehabilitation and it was required to
be reported to DOD. (Tr. 104; AE A)
Dr. C reviewed the SOR, documents from his counseling services, Dr. B’s report,
behavioral recovery certificate, and miscellaneous records and letters from his previous
treatment  providers.  She  also  conducted  a  semi-structured  clinical
interview,
observations, administration of objective personality measure, PAI, and subjective report
symptoms  via  the  Clinically  Useful  Depression  Outcome  scale,  Post-traumatic  Stress
Disorder checklist, drug abuse screening test, mood disorder questionnaire, and alcohol
use disorder identification kit, among other tests. (AE A)
Dr. C noted that J.A. diagnosed Applicant with bipolar disorder in April 2018 but
noted  that  diagnostically  it  was  unclear  from  the  medical  record  why  J.A.  believed
Applicant  met  the  diagnostic  criteria  for  bipolar  as  it  does  not  appear  he  specifically
endorsed  symptoms  of  mania  or  hypomania.  She  noted,  however,  that  Applicant  did
endorse excessive use of alcohol in June 2018 and that J.A. should have re-evaluated
her  diagnostic  impression.  Dr.  C  noted  that  Applicant  saw  J.A.  monthly  and  reported
concerns  of  depression  and  alcohol misuse  secondary  to  relationship  distress  until  he
self-referred to alcohol treatment in February 2019. (AE A)
Dr. C noted that Applicant reported he was coping with stress through alcohol and
he was becoming a person he did not want to be. He was drinking a fifth of vodka or more
daily. He reported his fiancée broke up with him during treatment and he also lost friends
who took her side. He said while participating in treatment he was diagnosed with bipolar
disorder II, generalized anxiety disorder and alcohol use disorder. Dr. C asked Applicant
why  he  believed  he  was  diagnosed  with  bipolar  disorder,  and  he  indicated  “well  I  told
them I was diagnosed with it and they had to keep me on my medication because you
can’t just  go  off  that medication.” After he  completed treatment, he returned to therapy
with  J.A.  who  subsequently  left  the  practice.  Applicant  told  Dr.  C  after  he  completed
alcohol  treatment,  he  wondered  if  he  met  the  criteria  for  bipolar  disorder  and  said  he
asked  to  be  re-evaluated  because  he  had  discontinued  use  of  alcohol.  When  he  was
transferred to R.J. she re-evaluated him and diagnosed him with primary insomnia and
alcohol use disorder in remission until May 2021. (AE A)
Dr. C noted that in June 2021, Applicant began treatment with M.B., and continues
to  see  her  monthly  to  this  day.  She  has  never  diagnosed  him  with  mood  disorder  but
instead with generalized anxiety disorder and sleep disorder. He is prescribed medication
and has reportedly been compliant with all treatment sessions and medication. (AE A)
Dr. C also noted that Applicant sees J.B., a licensed clinical social worker. He has
seen her biweekly since approximately September 2022 with care focused predominately
on  increased  anxiety  in  social  interactions  since  COVID.  Applicant  reported  that  the
majority of his treatment is focused on what his social life will look like now that he is sober
and trying not to be a hermit. (Tr. 107; AE A)
Applicant disclosed to Dr. C that he has been sober since September 13, 2021,
and  that  he  relapsed  twice  when  he  tested  the  waters  to  see  if  he  could  control  his
drinking. (AE A)
Dr. C specifically and thoroughly focused her clinical interview and questions about
symptoms  of  bipolar  disorder.  She  stated:  “Upon  further  inquiry,  it  is  possible  that  his
previous  provider,  [J.A.]  misidentified  his  symptoms  of  substance  use  with  those  of
hypomania  and  failed  to  appropriately  reevaluate  his  symptom  presentation  upon  his
sobriety.” (AE A page 5)
Dr. C had Applicant complete several psychological screeners. The results of the
tests are as follows:
Clinically Useful Depressive Outcome Scale = 1, not suggestive of depression.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder-7 = 0, not suggestive of anxiety.
PTSD Checklist for DSM-5 = 5, not suggestive of trauma disorder.
Alcohol  Use  Disorders  Identification   Test  =   2,  suggestive  of  low  risk  alcohol
consumption at this time.
Drug Abuse Screening Test-10 = 0, not suggestive of problematic drug use.
Mood Disorder Questionnaire  = not indicative of a mood disorder diagnosis.
Dr. C concluded:
Collectively,  [Applicant’s]   scores  on   these   screeners  reflect  an   individual
who  is not experiencing  significant symptoms of psychological distress at
this  time   but   has  had   difficulties   with   alcohol  misuse   in   the   distant  past.
Consistent  with   self-report,  [Applicant]   endorsed   a   pronounced   history  of
alcohol use  since  college  but not understanding  the  true  impact of alcohol
use on his functioning  until approximately 2018. (AE A)
Dr. C was asked whether she agreed or disagreed with Dr. B’s findings. She stated:
In   general,  as   an   objective   third   party  to   [Dr.  B’s]  report,  I   found   the
evaluation  to  be  lacking  in thoroughness  and  objectivity given  the  gravity of
the  circumstances for which  the  evaluation  was conducted.  This ultimately
casts doubt on  the  reliability and  validity of the  findings. [Dr.  B] repeatedly
relied   on   historical  data   without  providing   context  or  an   opportunity  for
[Applicant]  to  provide  insight into  the  factors that contributed  to  conflicting
information.  (AE  A)
Dr.  C  provided  specific  details  of  why  she  questioned  Dr.  B’s  findings.  She
specially  noted  that  Dr.  B’s  diagnoses  of  bipolar  disorder,  unspecified;  alcohol  use
disorder, severe were primarily based on historical data with limited current behavioral
examples  that  would  have  helped  to  understand  how  she  arrived  at  these  diagnostic
conclusions. Dr. C stated:
There  was  also  no   evidence   that  she   conducted   a   contemporaneous,
structured   or  semi-structured   review  of  bipolar  disorder  (to   include
hypomanic  or  manic)   symptoms   before  labeling   [Applicant]   with   this
condition  that he  denied  having  at the  time  of her evaluation. It  appears [Dr.
B] relied  heavily on  a  combination  of inaccurate  historical medical data  and
the   results  of  the   Personality  Assessment   Inventory  (PAI),  which   was
notably lacking in elevations and specificity. (AE A  page 7)
Dr.  C  concluded  that  in  her  opinion  Dr.  B’s  evaluation  lacks  rigor  and  specificity  and
should  not  be  used  as  a  primary  aid  in  making  decisions  about  [Applicant’s]  security
clearance eligibility. (AE A)
Dr. C diagnosed Applicant with Generalized Anxiety Disorder, Insomnia Disorder,
and  Alcohol Use  Disorder, Moderate, in  Sustained  Remission.  She did not find  evidence
to  support a  diagnosis of  Bipolar Disorder II.  She  noted  that  Applicant has  a  history of
symptoms  that  could  be  misconstrued  as  hypomanic in  the  context of an  active  substance
use   disorder.  She   noted   his  previous  provider  failed   to   adequately  and   appropriately
reevaluate  his symptom  presentation  based  on  his subsequent sobriety.  She  also noted
that   Dr. B   continued   to  fail   to   adequately evaluate  [Applicant’s] presentation   during   her
evaluation,   instead   relying   on   erroneous  historical  data   and   PAI   results  that  failed   to
provide rationale for the diagnoses offered. (AE A)
Dr. C stated Applicant’s prognosis is good. She found Applicant presently met the
diagnostic  criteria  for  mental  health  conditions  that  are  well  controlled  or  currently  in
sustained remission. Although he meets the criteria for several mental health conditions,
he  is  receiving  appropriate  mental  health  care  for  these  conditions  and  is  actively
implement
engaged,  receptive
interventions offered by his treating providers. She found he does not currently have a
mental health condition that could cast doubt on his reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
or ability to safeguard sensitive or classified information or that would impair his reliability,
trustworthiness or judgment in protecting sensitive or classified information. (AE A page
9)
treatment  modalities,  and  willing
to  multiple
to
Applicant provided documentation of numerous awards and  recognitions he has
received throughout his life. He provided information about his education, certifications,
and publications along with other professional accomplishments. (AE F, G, H)
Applicant  provided  character  letters.  He  is  described  as  devoted,  organized,
dedicated,  loyal,  reliable,  trustworthy,  responsible,  caring,  charismatic,  insightful,
confident,  honest,  and  smart.  He  was  repeatedly  recommended  to  hold  a  security
clearance. (AE I)
