Applicant  is  41  years  old.  He  is  married  with  two  children.  He  has  Air  Force
military  training,  twenty-two  years  in  the  service,  and  four  Associate’s  degrees  in  the
following  fields  of  discipline:  Information  Technology;  Arts;  Military  Science;  and
Communications Technology Applications.  He is employed by a defense contractor as
a Systems Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  seven  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $31,000,
involving  collections  and  charge  off  accounts,  and  one  allegation  for  misuse  of  the
government credit card showing a history of financial problems.  Applicant also engaged
in  inappropriate  behavior  showing  poor  judgment  when  he  borrowed  money  from  a
subordinate  while  on  active  duty  military  service.  Applicant  admits  with  explanations
each of the allegations set forth in the SOR under this guideline.  Credit reports of the
Applicant  dated  October  28,  2020;  March  29,  2022;  February  14,  2023;  and  May  8,
2023, confirm that each of the debts remain outstanding.  (Government Exhibits 5, 6, 7
and 8.)
Applicant served on active duty in the United States Air Force from March 2000
until  October  2021,  when he  was honorably discharged.  During  his military career he
underwent five deployments, three times to Iraq, and to Qatar, and the United Kingdom.
In  his
Applicant  stated  that  he  was  a  hard  worker  and  high  achiever  in  the  military.
answer to the SOR, Applicant outlines some of his military accomplishments.  Applicant
has held a security clearance since 2004.
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  February  2023.  He  earns
about  $110,000  annually.  He  receives  Air  Force  retirement  of  about  $2,000  monthly.
He  also  receives  about  $4,000  monthly  in  VA  disability  due  to  being  100  percent
disabled.  His job with a defense contractor requires a security clearance.
Applicant  explained  that  his  parents  immigrated  to  the  United  States  from  the
Philippines.  Applicant joined the Air Force at the young age of 18, in March 2000.  He
married  in  2008.  He  and  his  wife  have  struggled  to  live  within  their  means  since  he
started  earning  money  in  the  Air  Force.  Applicant  purchased  a  house  in  2009.  He
bought his wife a new car in 2010 or 2011.  By about 2013 or 2014, he had to short sale
his house.  He stated that he was also instructed to stop making payments on his other
bills in order to obtain the short sale.  Most of these debts remain outstanding.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $11,683.  Applicant explained that this is a delinquent credit
card  that  he  stopped  paying.  Applicant  testified  that  about  three  months  ago,  after
receiving the SOR and after applying for a security  clearance, he hired Lexington Law
Firm  to  assist  him  in  resolving  his  delinquent  debts.  No  major  action  had  been  taken
yet.  This debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 47.)
1.b.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $8,660.  Applicant stated that this is a delinquent credit card
debt.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.c.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $1,651.  Applicant explained that this is an online personal
loan he obtained to help meet his expenses.  He claims that the debt is under dispute
and has been since 2015 or 2016.  (Tr. pp. 49-53.)  The debt remains owing.
1.d.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $1,582.  Applicant stated that this is a delinquent credit card.
The debt remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 56-57.)
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that  was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $1,241.  Applicant stated that this is a delinquent credit card.
Applicant  contends  that  he  has  paid  off  this  debt.  He  has  not  provided  any
documentation  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.  (Tr.  pp.  56-57.)  The  debt
remains owing.
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $707.  Applicant stated that this is a delinquent credit card.
Applicant  claims  that  this  debt  is  related  to  a  timeshare  that  he  purchased  sometime
between  2008  and  2012.  Applicant  contends  that  he  has  paid  the  debt.  He  has  not
provided documentation to show that the debt has been resolved.  (Tr. pp. 59-60.)  The
debt remains owing.
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $5,676.  Applicant explained that this is a car loan that Applicant
contends has been paid off.  He has not provided documentation to show that the debt
has been resolved.  (Tr. p. 61.)  The debt remains owing.
1.h.   In  August  2016,  while  on  active  duty  with  the  United  States  Air  Force,  Applicant
received  non-judicial  punishment  for  Misuse  of  a  Government  Travel  Card.  Applicant
explained that he was stationed in Texas at the time.  He was on a family trip, and on
leave  from  work  to  spend  New  Year’s  Eve  in  Las  Vegas.  He  used  his  Government
credit  card  to  charge  about  $300  for  food  and  gas.  He  stated  that  when  he  returned
home,  he  paid  off  the  debt.  (Tr.  p.  65.)  Applicant  knew  at  the  time  that  he  was  in
violation of military rules and regulations.  As a result of this misconduct, Applicant lost
his rank and his security clearance was suspended for about five or six months.  (Tr. pp.
68.)  His rank was eventually reinstated.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant admitted the allegations set forth under this guideline.
2.a.  As  discussed  above,  in  August  2016,  Applicant  misused  his  Government  credit
card while on vacation in Las Vegas, and used it to purchase personal items.  Applicant
received  non-judicial  punishment  for  Misuse  of  the  Government  Travel  Card.  He  was
reduced  in  rank  and  his  security  clearance  was  suspended  for  five  or  six  months.  At
some later date, Applicant’s rank was reinstated upon application to the Air Force.  (Tr.
pp. 62-67.)
In   about  January  2021,  while  on   active   duty  with   the   United   States  Air   Force,
2.b.
Applicant  received   a   Letter  of  Reprimand   for   borrowing   money   from   a   subordinate.
Applicant explained  that he  was a  Staff  NCO, Tech  Sergeant,  E-6  in  the  Air  Force when
he   went   to   his   subordinate   an   E-4,  a  young   Airman   and   borrowed   either   $1,200.00   or
$1,500.00  from  him.   Applicant explained  that he  needed  the  money at the  time  as his
car  needed   maintenance,   and   his   credit   was  not  good.     He   did   not   strong   arm   his
subordinate to  loan  the  money to  him,  but does  recognize  the  power difference  between
the   two   of  them,   and   knew  that  it   was  inappropriate   to   ask  his  subordinate   for  help.
Applicant  stated  that  he  set  up  a  payment  arrangement  to  pay  his subordinate  back at
the  rate  of $500  a month.  Applicant’s supervisor heard  about  this situation  from  other
airmen   and   Applicant   was  disciplined.     Applicant   received   non-judicial  punishment   for
this   misconduct,   lost   rank,  and   was  not   recommended   for  promotion.    Following   this,
Applicant  retired  from  the  military.   (Tr. pp. 68-76.)
