Applicant  is  42  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  three  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s  degree  in  Information  Systems.  He  is  employed  with  a  defense  contractor
as a Systems Administrator.  He is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline B –  Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Tehran,  Iran  in  1980.  He  came  to  the  United  States  in
2005  to  pursue  higher  education.  He  then  attended  junior  college  and  a  university
where he obtained an Associate and a Bachelor’s degree.  In 2011, Applicant married a
woman from Iran.  She is a naturalized U.S. citizen.  They have three children who are
native born Americans, ages 9, 6, and 4.  Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen
in  2013.  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  March  2021.  He  has
never held a security clearance before.
Prior  to  his  current  employment,  Applicant  worked  as  an  IT  Assistance  for  a
medical  imaging  healthcare  company  from  November  2011  to  August  2021.  He  was
unemployed  from  February  2021  to  March  2021;  and  May  2020  to  March  2021.  He
worked as a  Systems Administrator from August 2019 to May 2020; and April 2016 to
August 2019.  He worked as an IT Technician from March 2018 to April 2018; and as a
Network Monitoring Technician from July 2016 to March 2018.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
Applicant’s  parents  are  both  naturalized  U.S.  citizens  and  they  hold  dual
citizenship  with  Iran.  They  reside  in  the  United  States,  close  to  where  the  Applicant
In  Iran  he  was  a  private  civil
lives.  Applicant’s  father  is  a  licensed  land  surveyor.
engineer  and  had  no  affiliation  with  the  government.  Applicant’s  mother  has  never
worked outside the home.  His parents do not receive any benefits, pensions or income
of any sort from Iran.  (Tr. p. 28.)
Applicant  has  one  brother and  one  sister who  are  naturalized  U.S.  citizens  and
they reside in the U.S, close to  where the Applicant lives.  Applicant’s  sister lives  with
their parents in the U.S.
Applicant’s mother inherited an apartment in Tehran, Iran from her parents.  The
apartment  is  rarely  used  and  not  rented  out.  When  Applicant’s  parents  travel back  to
visit  Iran,  they  stay  at  the  apartment.  (Tr.  p.  29.)  Applicant  does  not  know  what  the
(Tr. p. 38.)  Applicant
plans are for the apartment, but he does not stand to inherit it.
last traveled to Iran in 2012 for a wedding.  (Tr. p. 31.)
Applicant’s father-in-law is a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iran.   He  lives part time  in  the
U.S.  He is 70  plus years old,  and  is a retired  accountant  who  used  to  work for a  private
bank in Iran.  He owns an  apartment in  Iran.  His current wife, is his second  wife,  and
she   lives   in   Iran   in   the   apartment.    (Tr. p.   33.)     Applicant’s  father-in-law   travels   to   Iran
about two  times  a  year to  see  his wife  there.   He  is in the  process of  bringing  his wife  to
live  in the  U.S.   They are trying  to  expedite  the  process but have  not  been  successful  at
it.     She   is  retired.    (Tr.  p.   23.)     Applicant’s  mother-in-law  passed   away  several  years
ago.   She  was at  one  time  a  civil engineer in  Iran.   Applicant  does not discuss  his work
in the U.S. with his in-laws.   (Tr.  p. 25.)
Applicant testified that he loves Iran, but the government does not take care of its
people.  Applicant  stated  that  he  appreciates  living  in  the  United  States,  and  he  has
good  opportunities  here.  His  wife  and  children  are  here,  and  he  has  built  everything
here from scratch, and did it on his own.  He has no intention of ever going back to live
in Iran.  (Tr. pp. 42-43.)
Applicant’s Year End Reviews for 2021 and 2022, reflect that he has grown into a
significant contributor; learning processes quickly, understanding organization structure
and  business,  and  most  importantly,  becoming  visible  to  internal  and  external
personnel.  He is a good  communicator, demonstrates maturity,  is  a diligent engineer,
has excellent skills, continues to expand his knowledge, and is a pleasure to work with.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  supervisor  indicates  that  Applicant  was  originally  hired
as  an  IT  Engineer,  but  accepted  a  stretch  assignment  in  software  development  in
support  a  of  an  important  project.  Since  then,  Applicant  has  been  leading  the  Test
Equipment  Software  Engineer  Role  for  the  past  year  and  has  repeatedly  completed
software deliveries in a timely manner.  He works with minimal management supervision
and has consistently delivered software within or ahead of schedule.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit A.)
Notice
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
Islamic Republic of Iran.  Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic with a Shia Islamic
political  system.  The  supreme  leader  is  the  head  of  state  and  holds  constitutional
including  students,
authority over the judiciary, government-run media, and other key institutions.  The U.S.
Department of State travel advisory for Iran is Level 4.  Do not travel to Iran due to risk
of  kidnapping,  and  the  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  of  U.S.  citizens.  U.S.  citizens
visiting  or  residing  in  Iran  have  been  kidnapped,  arrested,  and  detained  on  spurious
charges.  Iranian  authorities  continue  to  unjustly  detain  and  imprison  U.S.  citizens  on
spurious  charges,  particularly
journalists,
Iranian-Americans,
business travelers, and academics, on charges including espionage and posing a threat
to  national  security.  The  U.S.  government  does  not  have  diplomatic  or  consular
relations with Iran and is unable to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens in Iran.
Significant human rights issues included credible reports of unlawful or arbitrary killings
by the government and its agents, most commonly execution for crimes not meeting the
international legal standard of  “most serious crimes” or for crimes committed by juvenile
offenders, as well as after trials without due process; forced disappearance attributed to
the government and its agents; torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment by the
government  and  its  agents;  arbitrary  arrest  or  detention;  harsh  and  life-threatening
prison  conditions;  political  prisoners  and  detainees;  politically  motivated  reprisals
against  individuals  in  another  country;  including  killings  kidnappings,  or  violence,
serious  problems  with  independence  of  the  judiciary,  particularly  the  revolutionary
courts; and unlawful interference with privacy.
The  Iranian  government  has  taken  few  steps  to  identify,  investigate,  prosecute,
and  punish  officials  who  committed  human  rights  abuses  or  corruption.
Impunity
remained pervasive throughout all levels of the government and security forces.  (HE-1)
