After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 62 years old and a high school graduate. He has been married three
times, and the most recent marriage (March 2010) ended in divorce in April 2021. He has
an adult adopted son. Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from July 1985
until August 1997 when he received an  honorable discharge. Since February 1998, he
has worked for the same defense contractor. He held security clearances in that position
since 2004. Before that, he held clearances in the U.S, Navy for 12 years.  (Items 5 and
6; Response.)
The  SOR  alleged  11  delinquent  consumer  accounts  totaling  $32,172.  (Item  1.)
Applicant  admitted  those  allegations,  stating:  “I  have  attempted  to  make  payment
arrangements with [the collection agent for the first five debts ($16,619)] but they wanted
half of the total up front and I do not have it at this time. I am working to save money and
try  again.”  (Item  4.)  This  collection  agent  filed  a  judgment  against  him  for  $12,644  in
August 2021. (Item 10.) The SOR accounts went into collection in the spring of 2020. The
Government’s credit reports support the SOR allegations. (Items 7-9.) Applicant disclosed
his debts in his SCAs. (Items 5 and 6.)
In his January 10, 2023 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), Applicant explained his
current financial difficulties. His problems began in about March 2019 and continued into
2020. His spouse owned a rental property. The tenants left the rental with  unexpected
damages that cost him $1,300 to repair. His spouse worked for a medical contractor, but
due to the COVID pandemic her contractor lost business. Her pay was cut by 50%. He
had to pick up some of her financial obligations. Applicant had relied on overtime, but due
to  the  COVID  pandemic  and  technical  reasons,  the  project  that  afforded  him  overtime
was  unexpectedly  cancelled.  That  adversely  impacted  his  income.  Those  financial
setbacks  strained  their  marriage.  Then  his  spouse  left  him,  and  they  divorced  in  April
2021. That also caused a further strain on his finances. (Item 11; Response.)
In his PSI, Applicant acknowledged that when he started missing his bill payments,
he did not respond to his creditors. He also hesitated to contact a debt counselor, because
he thought it might adversely affect his security clearance. He has made no attempts until
recently to contact his creditors. He began working overtime again in February 2022. He
has cut back on expenses, uses a spreadsheet to monitor bills, has made a budget, and
is doing better financially. Before their financial issues arose, he and his spouse did live
beyond their means. (Item 11.) They made enough, however, to support their expenses.
(Response.)
Applicant intends to pay his creditors by focusing first on the judgment creditor. At
the time of his PSI, he had negotiated a settlement with the judgment creditor to make a
$6,870 down payment followed by $950 per month for a total of $13,741 with interest. He
was unable to document that agreement, because he has not yet begun payments. He
was working towards accumulating the funds necessary for the down payment. (Item 11.)
In  his  May  26,  2023  Response,  Applicant  reiterated  the  causes  of  his  financial
difficulties and that he is saving  funds for the  down payment. He also  enumerated the
numerous  Navy  achievement  medals,  service  ribbons,  good  conduct  medals,  and
citations he was awarded in his 12 years in the U.S. Navy. He also noted his professional
achievements  during  his  25  years  working  for  the  same  defense contractor,  where  he
rose  from  a  technician  to  an  upper  level  manager.  In  those  capacities,  he  trained
numerous personnel in the proper handling of classified material. In those 37 years, he
never had a security incident. (Response; Items 5 and 6.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate   poor  self-control,
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and   meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,   or
unwillingness   to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of   which   can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive  information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of  personnel security concern  such  as  excessive gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially  overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to  generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security  concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR  allegations  are  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions  and  his  credit
reports. AG ¶¶ 19(a) and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. Having reviewed all of the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20,
I find the following potentially applicable:
(a)   the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,   trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment; and
(b)   the  conditions that  resulted  in  the  financial problem were  largely beyond
the   person's   control  (e.g.,   loss  of  employment,   a   business  downturn,
unexpected  medical emergency,  a  death,  divorce or separation, clear
victimization  by  predatory lending  practices,  or identity  theft), and   the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.
I have considered mitigating condition  AG ¶  20(a). Applicant’s SOR debts went
into collections in the spring of 2020. That is not that long ago. The debts are numerous
and remain in default today. His debts are not mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a).
I  have   considered   mitigating   condition   AG  ¶   20(b).   First,  the   financial  problems
must have  been  caused  by conditions “largely beyond” an  applicant’s control. Second,
the  applicant must have acted responsibly under the adverse conditions he confronted.
There  were  multiple  causes  of  Applicant’s  financial  woes.  The  tenants  of  his
spouse’s rental property vacated it leaving $1,300 worth of unexpected damages that he
had to repair to make it habitable. Next, his spouse worked in the medical business. The
economic impact of the COVID pandemic on her employer caused her pay to be reduced
by  half.  Then,  the  project  he  had  been  relying  on  for  overtime  pay  was  unexpectedly
cancelled due to COVID and technical reasons. All those financial hardships strained the
marriage. He and his spouse separated and then divorced in April 2021. That too harmed
him financially. The foregoing conditions were largely beyond his control. Applicant has
satisfied the first element of mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(b).
The  second  element asks whether the  applicant has acted  responsibly under the
adverse circumstances he  confronted. Here,  Applicant elected  to  address first the  debts
owed  to  the  judgment creditor. That was not an  irresponsible  choice. But because  he  has
yet to  make  any payments under the  agreement with  that creditor, he  cannot document
that  agreement.  The   Appeals  Board  has  routinely  held   that  it  is  reasonable  to   expect
applicants to  produce  documentation  supporting  their  efforts to  resolve debts. See, e.g.,
ISCR   Case   No.   20-00615   at   2   (Jun.   7,   2021).   In   addition,  without  having   made   any
payments  under  that agreement, he  has  not established  “a  meaningful track record”  that
the  Appeals Board requires to  conclude  that an  applicant  is on  track to  resolve unpaid
debts.   The   Appeals   Board  has  stressed   the   importance   of  a   “meaningful track  record”
that includes evidence  of actual debt reduction  through  the  voluntary  payment of accrued
debts. See  ISCR  Case  No.  19-02593  at 4-5  (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2021); ISCR  Case  No.  19-
01599 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2020).  His debts are not mitigated  under AG ¶ 20(b).
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and its factors). In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
I have given full and positive weight to Applicant’s 12-year Naval career and his
25-year career in the private defense industry. He served the Navy commendably and
continued that high caliber of service in the private sector. Applicant leaves me, however,
with  questions  about  his  eligibility  and  suitability  for  a  security  clearance  under  these
particular circumstances. For these reasons, I conclude that Applicant has not mitigated
the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  1.k:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
