Applicant admitted all of the allegations. His admissions are adopted as findings
of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old. He has three previous marriages and married a fourth
time in 2013. He has a grown child from a previous marriage. He has a stepchild and a
biological child, who is 12 years old, from his current marriage. He earned a bachelor’s
degree  in  2019.  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  military  in  1995  and  retired  honorably  in  the
paygrade E-8 in 2017. While serving in the special forces, he completed multiple combat
tours  in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq.  He  is  a  100%  disabled  veteran.  Applicant  has  been
employed since 2017 by a federal contractor, with his income increasing incrementally
since then. His wife is also employed by a federal contractor. (Tr. 20-32; AE A)
Shortly  before  Applicant  retired,  his  now  12-year-old  son  was  diagnosed  with
autism. At the time, Applicant was transitioning from the military, and his son was having
difficulty in school. It was determined that the school he was attending was not beneficial
for the special needs and therapy his son required. His son was doing poorly in his classes
and stopped being verbal or going outside at recess. Applicant and his wife decided to
move to a school district that had the necessary resources to help their son thrive. They
found  the  right  school  district  that  had  the  structure  he  needed.  Each  level  of  school,
elementary, middle, and high school were all located within a mile of each other which
was helpful for access to the therapy he needed. The therapists that were part of the new
school district  were  more  readily  available  to  address  the  special  needs  of  Applicant’s
son. Since attending the school, his son has thrived and is achieving A/Bs on his report
cards and has earned several belts in karate. (Tr. 32-35, 76-80, 82)
A farmhouse became available in the school district that Applicant wanted his son
to attend. He and his wife chose to purchase the farm to ensure their son could go to the
right  school.  Their  purchase  also  allowed  them  to  have  animals,  which  has  been
therapeutic  for  their  son.  This  farm  was  located  in  a  place  where  members  of  the
community have deep roots and purchasing a farm is not an opportunity that arises often.
They  did  not  want  to miss  the  opportunity, so  they  purchased  the  farm.  Because  they
purchased  the  farm  before  they  could  sell  their  house,  Applicant  experience  financial
difficulties. (Tr. 32-35, 38-39)
The house Applicant owned before purchasing the farm required major repairs and
maintenance before he was able to sell it. It took approximately two years and $20,000
to $30,000 to make marketable. During this period, Applicant had two mortgages and was
using credit cards to pay his expenses. He overextended his finances. He was able to
finally sell the home in 2019. They broke even on the sale. Applicant admitted he was
overextended with his finances. (Tr. 32-35, 38)
During this period, Applicant stepdaughter was attending college. Her mother paid
most of her tuition, room and board, and expenses, but he would also contribute to her
educational expenses. He also helped her financially when she moved to a new state for
a job. (Tr. 35-36, 73-75)
In  approximately  2018-2019,  Applicant’s  father  was  diagnosed  with  cancer.  He
was able to complete the chemotherapy treatments but, in the summer of 2022, he had
issues with his diabetes. He went into the hospital for what was to be routine surgery but
experienced a fall and went into a coma. He did not recover and had to be removed from
life support. During this time, Applicant visited his father, who lived in another state and
helped his mother. He anticipates at some point in the future, his mother will need to move
in with either him or his sister. He expects it to be him because he has children, and she
will want to be closer to them. It is a difficult time for his mother, and he tries to help her
manage her affairs. (Tr. 36-38, 60)
Applicant admitted that he should have acted sooner in resolving his delinquent
debts. He understands the importance of being fiscally responsible. He was put on notice
in April 2021 when he completed his background investigation that his finances  were a
security  concern  and  again  when  he  received  the  SOR  in  December  2021.  Applicant
began resolving his delinquent debts after he received the SOR.  (Tr. 95-96; Answer to
the SOR; AE A)
The SOR alleges eight delinquent debts totaling approximately $43,973. Applicant
provided evidence with his March 2023 answer to the SOR that he settled the credit card
debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c ($6,541) in July 2022. In August 2022, he paid in full the debt
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d ($6,495). He provided supporting documentation that he paid in full
the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.e ($6,148), 1.f ($3,869), 1.g ($1,719), and 1.h ($206). Applicant
also provided proof of payment for $8,816 for a debt that was not alleged in the SOR. (Tr.
40-47, 53-54, 91-92; Answer to the SOR; GE 3, 6; AE F)
Applicant  testified  that  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶ 1.a  ($12,148)  and  1.b  ($6,847)  are
owed  to  the  same  creditor  and  he  recently  contacted  it  to  resolve  them.  He  credibly
testified that he was paying his other debts and was tackling the smaller ones first.  He
was hesitant to negotiate a settlement for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a because he believed if
he settled the debt for less than the amount alleged it would be viewed negatively. Post-
hearing, he provided proof that he reached a settlement agreement for both debts and
paid the settlement amounts. (Tr. 47-52, 83-85; AE B, C, D, E)
Despite  gaining  ground  on  his financial  issues,  Applicant  had  other  unexpected
expenses, such as having to repair his truck that cost $7,500 and replace the roof on his
residence, which cost approximately $25,000, thereby reducing his cash savings. He still
maintained about $11,000 in his checking account. (Tr. 50, 56, 58-59, 87-89)
Applicant readily admitted and took full responsibility for his financial shortcomings
and failure to act more expeditiously. With the numerous life events occurring at the same
time,  he  was  overwhelmed  with  his  financial  responsibilities.  He  has  not  had  financial
counseling.  He  testified  he  served  his  country,  often  times  in  harms  way  and  under
combat conditions, and was willing to die for it.  He loves his country. He is in a better
financial position now. (Tr. 95-96; Answer to the SOR; AE A)
Applicant  provided  numerous  character  letters  stating  he  is  responsible,
professional,  energetic,  trustworthy,  mature,  calm,  confident,  efficient,  dedicated  and
charismatic. He adheres to procedures and protocols that protect the mission and some
of our country’s most sensitive operations. He has unquestionable character, work ethic
and integrity. He is respected by his peers and is a leader, mentor, and coach. He has
trained  others  on  handling  sensitive  information.  As  noted  by  one  former  military
commander, his duty performance was consistently among the very best during years of
supporting truly no-fail missions. (Answer to the SOR; GE 2)
