Applicant is 54 years old.  She is married and has at least one child.  She has a
high  school  diploma,  and  no  prior  military  service.  She  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  as  a  Enrollment  and  Billing  Representative.  She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a
security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness to  abide by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  five  creditors  totaling
approximately  $44,506,  which  includes  four  delinquent  accounts  that  have  been
charged off, as well as eight years of delinquent Federal back taxes.  Applicant admits
each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  Applicant’s  credit  reports  dated  July 23,
2022; and November 1, 2022, confirm the indebtedness.  (Government Exhibit 3 and 4.)
Applicant  has  a  long  history  of  financial  problems  beginning  in  2012  when  she
failed to pay income taxes owed to the Federal Government.  This pattern continued for
eight  years,  2013,  2014,  2015,  2016,  2017,  2019,  and  2021,  amassing  a  $27,079
delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  Federal  Government  for  back  taxes.  Applicant  has  not
resolved this debt.
In response to interrogatories regarding her Federal back taxes and whether she
currently  has  an  installment  or  other  repayment  agreement  established,  Applicant
answered,  “NO,  but noted that  it  was  “in  process.”  Ten  years have  passed  since  she
failed  to  pay  her  Federal  back  taxes,  and  she  is  still  in  the  process  of  setting  up  a
payment plan.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
More  evidence  of  not  meeting  her  financial  obligations  is  the  fact  that  in  June
2016,  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  which  was  dismissed  in  November
2018.  Then in November 2019, she filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy and her debts were
discharged in March 2020.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are also of security concern:
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $8,162.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that
Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $7,493.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that
Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $433.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that
Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.   A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $439.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that
Applicant has done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
