Applicant is 26 years old.  He has a Bachelor’s degree in Industrial Engineering
and  a  minor  in  Mathematics.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Project
Manager.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  has  an  extensive  history  of  illegal  drug  use  involving  marijuana,
cocaine, hallucinogenic mushrooms,  Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD), and the use of
prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  him  include  Adderall,  Vyvanse,  Tramadol,  Vicodin
and  Xanax.  Applicant  was  hired  by  his  current  employer  on  July  8,  2021.  He  is
applying for a security clearance for the first time.
1.a. and 1.b.  Applicant  attended  college  from  August  2015  to  December  2020.  He
stated  that  he  started  using  marijuana  in  college,  in  July  2015,  and  continued  until
March  2022,  consuming  it  about  five  to  seven  times  a  week.  (Tr.  p.  38.)  Given  the
seven years he has used marijuana, he admits to using it over 1,000 times.  (Tr. p. 63.)
He would normally use it in social settings with his friends.
Applicant  started  working  for  his  current  employer  in  July  2021,  and  continued
using  marijuana  until  at  least  March  2022.  Applicant  testified  from  his  personal
knowledge  that  there  are  people  at  his  company  who  use  marijuana  and  who  hold
security clearances.  Applicant provided the names of two of these employees.  (Tr. p.
72.)  He mentioned that there are others, but he has only learned about  them through
the grapevine.
Applicant stated that he has now stopped using marijuana since he has become
aware  of  the  security  obligations  required  to  obtain  a  security  clearance.  During  the
years he used marijuana he also purchased it about once or twice a month to supply his
habit.  (Tr. p. 43.)
1.c.  and  1.d.  Applicant has used and purchased cocaine nine times from about 2015 to
April 2021.  He used cocaine in social  settings  with  his friends.  He  stated that he  did
not enjoy it.  He also used and purchased hallucinogenic mushrooms three times from
September  2016  to  about  March  2021.  He  did  not  particularly  enjoy  this  experience
either.  (Tr. p. 47-48.)
1.e.   Applicant  has  used  and  purchased  prescription  medications,  namely  Adderall
and  Vyvanse  not  prescribed  to  him,  from  about  August  2016  to  November  2018.  He
explained that he used it as a study aid.  He would usually use these drugs with friends
in his study group.
1.f.   Applicant used Tramadol on one occasion in October 2017.  He remembers that
he  had  pain  from  a  laceration  on  his  hand.  His  sister  had  a  pill  left  over  from  her
wisdom tooth removal, and she gave it to him.
1.g.   Applicant  used  Vicodin  on  one  occasion  in  about  July  2018.  He  suffered  a
hamstring injury while playing intramural football and a friend offered his Vicodin to him.
1.h.   Applicant  used  and  purchased  Lysergic  Acid  Diethylamide  (LSD)  on  two
occasions, once in March 2017, and again in May 2017.  He acknowledges that he was
young and naïve at the time.  He was outdoors in a nature setting or going on a hike at
the time he used it.  He stated that he did not really enjoy it, and he understood the risks
associated with the drug.
Applicant  sold  marijuana  in  2017.  He  explained  that  he  was  responsible  for
1.i.
taking the marijuana to a friend of  his, and then returning the  money to  another friend
who owned the marijuana, who had asked him to do the favor.  (Tr. p. 55-56.)  Applicant
did not receive any money for his efforts.
Applicant used and purchased Xanax not prescribed to him on two occasions in
1.j.
about August 2015.
Applicant admitted that he made a knowing and conscious decision to use these
drugs when he did so, and he knew that he violated both state and Federal law when he
used marijuana, cocaine, LSD, and hallucinogenic mushrooms.  (Tr. pp. 63-66.)
Letters  of  recommendation
from  Applicant’s  Senior  Manager  and  other
professional  colleagues,  including  a  roommate,  attest  to  Applicant’s  high  level  of
maturity  and  job  responsibility.  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  highly  driven
professional  and  the  go-to  person  as  an  expert  in  certain  areas  as  an  Engineer  and
Data Analyst.  Applicant’s good character, work ethic, and commitment to the principles
of integrity and confidentiality are noted.  However, only one individual who provided a
letter  of  recommendation  for  Applicant  makes  any  reference  to  being  aware  of
Applicant’s  history  of  illegal  drug  use,  and  characterizes  it  as  occurring  prior  to  his
employment with the company, which is not accurate.  Applicant testified that he did not
show the SOR to any of those who submitted letters on his behalf, and although he only
verbally  discussed  some  of  the  allegations  with  them,  he  did  not  provide  them  with
specifics.  Applicant testified that his Senior Manager, who has supported him, told the
security officer that if Applicant were to be denied his security clearance, steps would be
taken to keep him on the program.  (Tr. p. 75, and Applicant’s Exhibits E and I.)
Hair Drug Test results dated March 1, 2023; March 24, 2023; May 11, 2023; and
June 8, 2023, were negative.  (Applicant’s Exhibits B and H.)
Applicant  submitted  a Statement  of  Intent  dated  March  23,  2023,  declaring  that
he  will  never  misuse  substances  in  the  future.  He  plans  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse  and  acknowledges  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Notes  concerning  Applicant’s  performance  appraisals  indicate  that  he  was  an
excellent  performer  in  2021,  and  that  he  continues  to  be  impressive,  showing
outstanding  job  performance.  He  is  described  as  a  hard  worker  whose  skill  and
diligence has helped to make the projects successful.  He continues to be an extremely
valuable  member  of  the  team  as  he  continues  to  expand  his  knowledge  and
understanding of various aspects of his job responsibilities.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
