After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant purchased and used  marijuana
from  about  January  2002  until  about  January  2022,  and  that  he  purchased  and  used
cocaine  from  about  January  2008  until  about  April  2022.  In  response  to  the  SOR,
Applicant admitted all allegations. (Items 1, 2, 3)
Applicant  is  39  years  old.  He  received  an  associate  degree  in  2017  and  a
bachelor’s degree in 2019. He married in November 2019 and his wife was pregnant with
their first child when he responded to the FORM.  He has been employed by a federal
contractor since  June 2022 as an IT Specialist. He has worked as a  restaurant  server
since 2011. He has no military experience and has never held a security clearance. (Items
4, 5; AE A)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  July  2022.  He
disclosed that he had purchased and used marijuana from January 2002 to January 2022.
He  first  used  marijuana  in  high  school,  characterized  his  use  as  casual,  social  and
recreational, noted that marijuana was a regular part of his life in his early 20’s, and that
his frequency of use dropped considerably as he aged. He could not provide an accurate
number of times that he had used marijuana. (Items 4, 5; AE A)
Applicant  also  reported  that  he  had  purchased  and  used  cocaine  from  January
2008 to April 2022. He characterized his use as casual and social, noted that he usually
used cocaine while drinking with friends and that his frequency of use varied from periods
of regular use (weekly or bi-weekly) to periods where he would not use cocaine for years
at a time. (Items 4, 5; AE A)
Appellant stated that he did not intend to purchase or use marijuana, cocaine or
other controlled substances in the future, He identified three reasons why he no longer
intended  to  use marijuana  or cocaine:  (1) he and  his wife  were  trying  to  start  a  family
which provided a source of motivation to clean up his life and facilitate his family’s growth
and prosperity; (2) he was inspired by a close friend, a high functioning alcoholic, who
had completed rehabilitation, cleaned up his act to help raise his daughter and was now
the happiest and healthiest Applicant had ever seen him, and (3) he was also motivated
to stop using drugs and drinking by the recent death of a close friend who died from an
overdose. He also stated that he had not misused prescription drugs in the previous seven
years, had not been ordered to or advised to seek drug counselling, and that he had not
sought counseling or treatment for his drug use. (Items 4, 5; AE A)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  August  2022  and
authenticated  the  accuracy  of  the  summary  of  that  interview.  His  interview  responses
were  consistent  with  his  SCA  disclosures  and  included  the  following  additional
information. (Items 4, 5)
He purchased marijuana from friends and used marijuana with friends and while
alone. Marijuana made him feel high but after a while he started feeling useless and was
not  productive.  He  purchased  and  used  cocaine  for  about  14  years.  He  purchased
cocaine from within his social circle, never from people that he did not know. He used
cocaine in homes and bars, often while drinking alcohol. His marijuana use was a big part
of his life and widely known, and most of his friends were aware that he used cocaine. He
has never grown, produced, or sold marijuana or cocaine. He has never had a positive
drug test or been arrested. He reiterated and emphasized his motivations for and intent
to abstain from future use of marijuana, cocaine, and other controlled substances. (Items
4, 5)
Applicant said that at some point in his mid-twenties, he felt dependent on cocaine
but overcame it. He reduced his use and took up golf as a hobby. He reported that his
cocaine use had strained his marriage when his spouse asked him to stop, he was unable
to do so and then lied about it. He weaned himself from cocaine when he got married and
tried to have a baby. After reducing his use, he lost his craving for cocaine. He last used
cocaine after his friend died. (Item 5)
Applicant did not provide documents or evidence in response to the SOR, but did
provide an email, signed statement, photo, and letter of intent to abstain from the illegal
use of controlled substances in response to the FORM. (Item 3; AE A)
In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  reported  that  his  wife  was  15-weeks
pregnant and included a photo of a recent ultrasound. He said that he had been drug free
for  over  a  year  and  reduced  his  alcohol  consumption  by  “roughly  99.9  percent”  to  an
occasional  beer  at  dinner  with  his  father-in-law.  His  “desire  to  indulge  in  drug  use  or
consume alcohol is completely gone” and he is motivated to permanently maintain these
positive changes in his life. He is particularly motivated by his desire and responsibility to
provide a thriving home environment for his child. He reported that he no longer goes to
bars, clubs or house parties where drugs and alcohol are commonly used. He expressed
confidence  in  his  efforts  to  quit  using  drugs  permanently  noting  that  he  significantly
decreased  his  marijuana  and  cocaine  use  in  May  2021,  when  they  started  in-vitro
fertilization treatment, and that he reduced his drug use until he stopped using marijuana
in January 2022 and cocaine in April 2022. He reported that he no longer associates with
people  who  use  drugs,  avoids  environments  where  drugs  are  used,  and  submitted  a
notarized letter of intent to abstain from the illegal use of controlled substances dated May
12, 2023. (AE A)
