Applicant  is  37  years old.  He  is  engaged  and  living  with  his girlfriend.  He has
two children, ages 5 and 15.  He has a high school diploma.  He holds the position of
Bond Room Technician.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with
his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  twenty-six  allegations  consisting  of  a  failure  to  file  Federal
and State income tax returns, as wells as numerous delinquent debts totaling in excess
of  $50,979,  which  includes  collections,  charge-offs,  medical  accounts,  tax  debt,  and
child  support  arrearage,  among  other  consumer  debt.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the
allegations  with  explanations,  except  allegations  1.w.,  and  1.x.,  which  he  denies,
claiming  that  they  have  been  paid.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  March  27,
2022;  January  26,  2023;  and  May  9,  2023,  confirm  that  he  is  or  at  one  time  was
indebted to each of the creditors listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 5, 6, and 7.)
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  on  April  25,  2022.  He  has
never  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  or  applied  for  a  security  clearance  before.  He
enjoys  his  job  and  has  already  received  a  promotion.  He  has  applied  for  leadership
positions and is being considered.  (Tr. p. 25.)
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  problems  to  a  car  accident  he  was  in,  in
February 2019.  He was a passenger in the backseat of his friend’s off roading vehicle,
while off roading, when the vehicle rolled over.  Applicant stuck his hand out during the
roll  and  broke  it.  He  underwent  five  surgeries  and  spent  three  weeks  in  the  hospital.
This was followed by home care and therapy until he could no longer afford it.  Applicant
submitted  medical  records  corroborating  his  injury.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit
D.)  During this time, Applicant could not work and to support himself and his family, he
collected unemployment and disability.  Applicant stated that because of this accident,
and  the  extensive  injury  to  his  hand,  he  could  not  work  for  three  years.  (Tr.  p.  53.)
Applicant contends that prior to the accident he did not have most of the debt.  He was
forced to decide between feeding his family or paying his bills.  He decided to feed his
family.
Applicant  explained  that  he  was  also  forced  to  sell  his  house.  (Tr.  p.  28.)  He
was not in a good place mentally, and he ignored filing his Federal and State income tax
returns from 2019 to 2021.  He stated that he plans to hire an attorney to assist him in
repairing his credit situation.  (Tr. p. 29.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.   Applicant  failed  to  file  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2019
through 2021.  He has not yet filed these income tax returns.
1.b.  Applicant  failed  to  file  his  State  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2019
through 2021.  He has not yet filed these income tax returns.
1.c.
Applicant  is  indebted   to   the   State   in  the   amount  of  $9,416   for  delinquent
taxes for tax year 2019.   Applicant is making  regular monthly payments of $199,  which
are  automatically deducted  from  his account via electronic funds withdrawal on  the  28th
of each  month.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.d.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $5,705  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  Applicant claims that he has paid this debt, but provides
no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
1.e.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $3,838  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p.
45.)
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $3,372 for an account that
was placed for collection.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 46.)
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $3,361  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p.
46-47.)
1.h.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $2,695  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p.
47.)
1.i.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $2,462  for  an  account
that was charged off.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 47.)
1.j. Applicant is  indebted  to  a  creditor in  the  amount  of $2,037  for an  account that
was placed  for collection.   This was a  credit card.  The  debt remains owing.   (Tr.  pp. 47-
48.)
1.k.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $1,463  for  an  account
that was placed for collection.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing. (Tr. p.
48.)
1.l. Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $1,236 for an account that
was charged off.  This was a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.m.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $953 for an account that
was placed for collection.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.n. Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $936 for an account that
was  placed for collection.  Applicant contends  that  he has paid this debt, but provides
no documentary evidence.  (Tr. p. 50.)
1.o.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $726 for an account that
was placed for collection.  This was a medical debt.  Applicant paid the debt for $713.
(Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  The debt is no longer owing.
1.p. Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $470 for an account that
was charged off.  The debt remains owing.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
1.q.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical co-pay in the amount of $49
for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant stated that he has paid the debt,
but provides no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 52.)
1.r.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  the  State  Child  Support  authorities  for  back  child
support in the amount of $7,440 for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant
stated that the payment is currently being garnished from his paycheck in the amount of
$166  per  week,  about  $650  monthly,  which  includes  his  required  current  payment  of
$550,  and  for  his  arrearage  for  $100  that  began  when  he  started  his  current
employment.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B, and Tr. p. 53-57.)
1.s.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $2,467  for  an  account
that was charged off.  The debt remains owing. (Tr. pp. 60-61.)
1.t. Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $558 for an account that
was charged off.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 61.)
1.u.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $453 for an account that
was placed for collection.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 62.)
1.v.  Applicant  is indebted to  a  creditor  in the amount  of $119  for a medical co-pay
for an account that was placed  for collection.   Applicant stated that he has paid the  debt,
but provides  no  documentary evidence.  The  debt remains owing.   (Tr.  p. 62.)
1.w.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical co-pay in the amount of $75
for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant stated that he has paid the debt,
but provides no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing.
1.x.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical co-pay in the amount of $50
for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant stated that he has paid the debt,
but provides no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 63.)
1.y.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical co-pay in the amount of $50
for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant stated that he has paid the debt,
but provides no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 63.)
1.z.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical co-pay in the amount of $50
for an account that was placed for collection.  Applicant stated that he has paid the debt,
but provides no documentary evidence.  The debt remains owing. (Tr. p. 63.)
Applicant also had to sell his house.  After paying off the mortgage, he had about
$30,000 that he used towards other debts and taxes.  (Tr. p. 58.)
Between  the  Applicant  and  his  girlfriend,  their  household  income  totals  about
$8,000 monthly after taxes.  He stated that after paying his regular monthly expenses,
he has between $2,500 to $3,000 left in discretionary funds that he could use toward his
delinquent debts.  He has not used this money to pay his delinquent debts because he
has had moving expenses and apartment rental obligations.  He has contacted a Credit
Management Company to consolidate his debt to help resolve it.  Applicant stated that
the  payment  program  requires  Applicant  to  pay  $450  monthly  towards  his  delinquent
debt  for  48  months  and  his  debt  will  be  completely  resolved.  He  has  not  yet  started
making the payments.  (Tr. p. 74-75.)
Letters  of  recommendation
from  Applicant’s  direct  manager  and  other
professional  colleagues  and  coworkers  attest  to  Applicant’s  impeccable  work  ethic,
excellent  character,  dedication  to  the  job,  strong  knowledge  and  background  with  an
excellent skill set.  He is polite, respectable, and levelheaded.  Applicant is recognized
as  an  all-around  great  person  who  is  highly  dependable,  and  volunteers  when  others
are supposed to and they fail to show up.  He is a very valuable member of the team.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit E.)
Applicant  has  received  a  number  of  awards  and  commendations  for  his
collaboration  and  innovation  on  the  job,  as  well  as  a  Certificate  of  Recognition  for  his
dedicated service.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit F.)
