Applicant  is   36   years  old.   He   recently  married,   for  the   first  time,   and   has   no
children.  He   earned   a   high   school   diploma   in  June   2005   and   a   Computer  Support
Technician   Certificate   from   a   technical  college   in  May  2015.  He   began   his  current
employment  as a  computer network support technician  with  a  major defense  contractor
in  August  2014,  and   has  held  a   security  clearance   since   2018   in  connection   with   that
work.  He never served  in the  military or held a  Federal civil service  position. (GE  1;  Tr. 7-
8, 25-28.)
On  May  24,  2018,  Applicant  submitted  his  initial  Electronic  Questionnaires  for
Investigations  Processing  (e-QIP)  to  apply  for  a  security  clearance  that  he  needed  to
move into a position involving access to classified information. As alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b,
he responded, “No,” to the question in Section 23 asking, “In the last seven (7) years,
have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances? Use of a drug or controlled
substance  includes  injecting,  snorting,  inhaling,  swallowing,  experimenting  with  or
otherwise consuming any drug or controlled substance.” He was granted a final Secret
clearance by the DoD CAF in August 2018. (GE 1; GE 4, Tr. 27-30.)
In early 2021 Applicant decided to improve his potential employment opportunities
by applying for a part-time second job with a government agency (GA). The job required
a Top Secret clearance. He was not asked to submit another e-QIP, but underwent an
enhanced background investigation. During his initial interview during May 2021, he told
the GA investigator that he had not used illegal drugs, including marijuana. He was then
scheduled to take a July 2021 polygraph test. During the pre-polygraph interview on the
test date, he admitted that he had smoked marijuana. The details of the investigation by
the  GA  were  not  entered  into  this  record.  However,  Applicant  confirmed  that  he  first
disclosed  his  previous  use  of  marijuana  to  security  officials  during  that  July  2021
interview. Due to the resulting security concerns, the GA denied him a clearance and did
not hire him. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 24, 29-31, 47-49.)
After  he  confessed  his  drug  use  to  the  GA  in  July  2021,  he  told  his  full-time
employer’s security officer (FSO) about his previously undisclosed drug use. That security
officer  directed  him  to  complete  another  e-QIP,  in  which  he  wrote  that  he  had  used
marijuana between April 2004 and May 2021 in the form of THC candy consumption or
smoking. He said this was “very very infrequent” and occurred a total of approximately 20
times. This information was forwarded to the DoD CAF, for its consideration whether his
DoD Secret clearance should be revoked. During an interview with an investigator from
the  Office of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  on  March  28,  2022, he  reiterated  that  he
smoked marijuana approximately 20 times during the reported dates, but said that he had
difficulty  providing  an  accurate  approximation.  He  said  that  he  never  purchased
marijuana, but used it “at parties and sometimes after work,” and that he had not sought
professional counseling or treatment for marijuana use. His testimony during the hearing
was broadly consistent with these assertions. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 31-34.)
Applicant testified that his most recent period of marijuana use occurred during the
COVID-19 pandemic, when he started a second job moonlighting in a bar and restaurant.
He  worked there  from October 2020 until  May  2021. He  said  he and  friends  from that
employment  would  go  out  after  the  bar  closed  to  share  marijuana  at  parties.  His
description of this activity portrayed a regular pattern during this seven-month period. He
claimed that these marijuana parties took place on days when the bar closed earlier in
the evening, rather than on the nights when it closed in the early morning hours. However,
he also said that he did participate when he had to work the next morning at his weekday
job with the defense contractor. It is unusual that the bar where he worked would have
closed  early  on  Friday  and  Saturday  nights,  but  after  midnight  on  Sundays  through
Thursdays  preceding  his  workdays.  Those  incongruent  assertions  raise  significant
credibility issues, as do his repeated and vague minimizations in describing his drug-use
history while holding and seeking to upgrade his security clearance. (Tr. 35-40, 45-47.)
In  his  2021  e-QIP,  Applicant  said  that  he  was  “in  search  for  a  drug  awareness
class.”  In  response to DOHA  interrogatories he  said,  “I  have  research  [sic]  some  drug
improvement class, but was unaware which one would fit the [GA] criteria.”  During his
hearing testimony he said that he had not attended any such programs. He described his
continuing  use  of  marijuana  until  May  2021  as,  “a  bad  choice  in  judgement,”  “a  bad
choice,” and “a lapse in judgement.” He further stated that he is, “committed to not taken
[sic] any more substance,” and “there will be no further use after incident.” He no longer
parties with his former coworkers from the bar. The record contains no evaluation from a
doctor  or  other  medical  professional  assessing  the  level  of  Applicant’s  drug  abuse,  or
expressing a prognosis for future abstinence. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 38, 45.)
Applicant  testified  that,  while  applying  for  his  initial  security  clearance  with  the
defense  contractor,  he  intentionally  falsified  his  2018  e-QIP  because  he  knew  that  an
honest disclosure of his recent marijuana use would reduce his chances to obtain the job
and a security clearance. He also testified that he knew his marijuana use was illegal at
the  time.  As  noted  above,  he  initially  attempted  to  deceive  the  GA  investigators
concerning  his  ongoing  marijuana  use  again  in  2021,  but  admitted  it  when  he  was
confronted with taking a polygraph examination. (GE 1; GE 3; Tr. 29-31, 42-44.)
Applicant also provided a post-hearing written statement of intent and “agreement
to  not  engage  in  any  marijuana  and  any  other  drugs  use  while  contracted  for  the  US
Federal  Government.”  He  also  agreed  “to  abide  by  all  laws,  rules  and  regulations
pertaining to marijuana use.” (AE A.)
Applicant’s  parents  and  sister  wrote  letters  describing  him  as  enthusiastic,
ambitious, persistent, and a great leader who learns from his mistakes and takes charge
to come up with different ways to accomplish tasks. His manager wrote that he always
works  hard,  operates  in  an  ethical  manner,  performs  at  a  very  high  level,  and  has  a
supportive  loving  family.  Applicant’s  wife  describes  him  as  “a  reliable,  trustworthy,
straightforward,  honest  man.”  She  said  he  has  “always  abided  by  the  protocols  and
procedures of his work, taking classification seriously, never sharing private information,
and  always  stepping  in  to  help  his  coworkers.”  She  said,  “His  integrity  is  extremely
important to him and others recognize him for it.” (AE B.)
