Applicant is a 44-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2020. He served on active duty in the U.S. military from 1997
until he was honorably discharged in 2001. He earned two associate degrees in 2003, a
bachelor’s  degree  in  2006,  a  master’s  degree  in  2008,  and  additional  post-graduate
education towards a doctorate. He is a widower after his wife passed away last year. He
has a 13-year-old child. (Tr. at 16-20, 27; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant has  a  problematic educational and  employment history, including  while
working  part-time  at colleges as an  adjunct professor. While  attending  college  in 2003,
he was asked  to  resign  from  a  student government position  after someone  alleged  that
he   made   a   terroristic   threat,  presumably  similar  to   a   school  shooting   (SOR  ¶   1.a).
Applicant  admitted   that  he   was  asked   to   resign,  but  adamantly  denied   that  he   ever
made   any  such   threat.  He  was  allowed   to   continue   to   attend   school  and   earned  two
associate  degrees in 2003, and  he  was hired  to  work at the  college  in 2020.  (Tr. at 31-
32, 62-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE  1, 2)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant left his employment in 2004 “under unfavorable
circumstances,  including  verbal  harassment.”  Applicant  admitted  that  he  left  the  job  in
2004,  but  he  stated  that  he  was  the  one  who  was  verbally  harassed.  There  is  no
evidence  in the  record to counter his statement. (Tr. at 68-73; Applicant’s  response to
SOR; GE 2)
Applicant attended a university from 2004 to 2008, earning his bachelor’s degree
in  2006 and his master’s  degree  from  the  same university  in 2008.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges
that Applicant was terminated from his employment at the university in 2005 “for failing
to keep regular office hours as directed.” Applicant denied the allegation. He stated that
he was on a work-study program with the university, and there were only so many hours
that he  could work throughout the year.  He was  told  he reached the end of  his hours,
and  he  was  told  not  to  come  to  work  anymore.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  to
counter his statement. (Tr. at 73-75; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant was in a doctoral program at a university from 2010 through 2013. He
failed a course due to plagiarism (SOR ¶ 1.d). (Tr. at 20, 75-79; Applicant’s response to
SOR) He admitted the allegation with the following explanation:
This case  was truly  an  accident.  I did a  block  quote  but forgot  the  in-line
citation  after the  block quote. I did reference  the  information  location  in my
references.  This  however  was   not  good   enough   for   my  appeal,   as  they
stated it is a Doctoral program  and I should have known better.
Mitigation:   I  learned  from  this  mistake  and  am  very  cautious  about
complete  and  accurate  citations  on  all  my  documents.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR)
SOR  ¶   1.e   alleges  that  in  2010,  Applicant  was  fired  from  his  employment  at  a
technical  institute  for  cause.  He  admitted  that  he  was  let  go  from  the  institute,  but  he
asserted  it  was  in  retaliation  by  his  supervisor.  Applicant  stated  that  he  filed  an  Equal
Employment  Opportunity  (EEO)  complaint  against  his  supervisor,  who  came  into
Applicant’s  classroom,  dropped  his  pants,  and  adjusted  his  private  parts  in  front  of
Applicant and two or three students. He stated that the supervisor later called him and
told him not to come to work anymore. In his February 2020 Questionnaire for National
Security  Positions  (SF  86),  he  wrote  that  the  reason  he  left  the  employment  was
“Personal.” (Tr. at 79-84; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
SOR ¶  1.f  alleges that in 2013, Applicant was terminated from his employment at
a  technical  university  “for  unfavorable  conduct.”  Applicant  denied  he  was  terminated
and  asserted  that  he  quit  the  job.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  to  counter  his
statement. In his February 2020 SF 86, he wrote that the reason he left the employment
was “Personal.” (Tr. at 84-88; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant was terminated from his employment at a college in 2015 (SOR ¶ 1.g).
In his 2020 SF 86, he stated that he left the job “by mutual agreement following charges
or allegations of misconduct.” He explained:
Filed   a   grievance   against  a   coworker.  I  was   asked   not  to   talk   to   her  and
her  with   I.   We   both   communicated   with   each   other  and   they  wanted   to
terminate   me   and   not  her.  This  is  under  investigation   with   EEOC  for
discrimination and retaliation charges against [college].  (GE 1)
Applicant asserted that he filed an EEO complaint against a colleague after she
harassed  him.  He  stated  that  his  wife  was  a  student,  he  and  the  colleague  were
discussing students, and the colleague “said some pretty nasty things about [his] wife to
[him],  which  [he]  didn’t  appreciate.”  The  dean  of  the  college  and  the  academic  vice
president directed him not to  have any conversation with his colleague  unless another
person was present. He violated the directive, but he stated it was in public, it had to do
with a student who had a knife, and she was the only staff member available to discuss
it. (Tr. at 20-22, 88-94; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant worked for a defense contractor from July 2017 to July 2019.  He was
terminated  after  an  investigation  found  that  he  violated  the  company’s  workplace
harassment  and  bullying  policy  in  that  he  “engaged  in  repeated  unwelcomed
conversations  of  a  personal  nature.”  The  company  found  that  two  employees  in  two
different  cities  had  similar  complaints  against  Applicant.  It  noted  that  he  denied  he
engaged  in  the  behavior,  but  witnesses  confirmed  the  allegations.  Additionally,  the
company found that  “[w]itnesses  identified by  [Applicant] that  could  corroborate he did
not  engage  in  this  behavior  actually  corroborated  the  allegations  made  by  the
[complaining employee].” (Tr. at 98-106; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 4, 5)
The  company  reported  that  “[w]itnesses  confirmed  they  were  subject  to  or
personally witnessed [Applicant] exhibiting the following behavior:
• Openly sharing unsolicited comments about his personal life as he’s not happy
with his wife, his wife is lazy, he filed for divorce, wife spends his money, and he
wants more kids but not with his wife.
• In many cases, immediately upon meeting employee' or interns [Applicant] sent
a Facebook friend request to them.
• Openly shared with employees that he is in love with [employee from city where
Applicant worked] and he could see himself with her after his divorce was final.
•  Sent  [complaining  employee’s  name  redated]  flowers  to  the  office  then
observed her from security cameras to see her reaction when flowers delivered.
• Rated employees by their appearance.
• Shared another “hypothetical” situation with a female intern asking if she would
take a trip with him and sleep in the same room with him.
•  Asked  all  the  interns  for  their  addresses  in  the  event  something  happens  to
them.
•   Witnesses  stated  they  are  reluctant  to  advise  [Applicant]  that  they  are
uncomfortable  with  his  repeated  unwelcomed  comments  because  they  feared
retaliation.
*
*
*
•  [Applicant]  acted as a mentor to an intern  in  [city in another  state].  [Applicant]
reached  out  to  the  intern  through  Facebook  and  encouraged  the  intern  to
relocate  to  [city  where  Applicant  worked].  When  the  intern  rejected  his  offer  to
relocate, [Applicant] removed the intern from the Cyber shared site.
•  Witnesses  indicated  that  [Applicant]  mentioned  he  liked  the  appearance  of
certain females, [two complaining witnesses’ names redacted] included. (GE 5)
The  first  complaining  employee  reported  that  she  began  her  internship  at  the
defense  contractor  in  June  2019.  Other  interns  attended  a  welcome  lunch  hosted  by
Applicant about two weeks earlier. Applicant invited her to a welcome dinner about two
days  after  she  started  her  internship.  He  picked  her  up  at  the  hotel,  but  she  was
surprised  that  he  knocked  on  her  hotel  room  door.  He  had  previously  asked  all  the
interns to give him their addresses “just in case something happened.” They went to his
car where his wife and child  was sitting in the back  seat, leaving the front seat for the
intern. (GE 5)
After  dinner,  Applicant  drove  everyone  back  to  his  home  where  he  gave  the
intern a tour of his home. His wife and child stayed home when he left to drive the intern
back  to  her  hotel.  He  drove  around  the  city  before  taking  her  back  to  her  hotel.  She
reported that he told her how his wife was annoying, they were going to get a divorce,
his wife was boring, he was done with her, and she spent all his money. He described
the ideal person he wanted to get with would be in her late 20s with a child. She was in
her late 20s with a child, and she felt he was describing her. He then said something to
the effect that hypothetically, if he and the intern got together, he would treat her son as
his own. He then asked her if she wanted him to continue to drive and see more of the
city.  She  responded  that  she  needed  to  get  home  because  she  was  tired.  He  said  he
was wide awake. She again said she wanted to go home. He then drove her back to the
hotel. (GE 5)
Applicant adamantly denied he harassed any employee. He wrote:
I admit  I was fired, but  it was a  stretch  to  call it harassment and  bullying.
The  first problems  with  HR  on  this site  was  when  I asked  them  for an  ADA
accommodation  for my  diabetic needles to  have  a  sharps container in the
bathroom. They  told  me  that it  was  too  expensive  for them  to  do  and  did
not  fit  ADA.  I  filed   an   EEO  complaint   that  they   denied   this   simple
accommodation   request.   After   that  time,   I  was   under   scrutiny  for
everything.  In   June   2019,   my  wife   and   I   were  with   one   of   my  interns  at
Target.   I  accidently  bumped   shoulders  with   her,  and   she   called   it   sexual
harassment. They never did vet her  side  of the  story against  mine, nor did
they  ask  my  wife   who   was  right  there  when   it  happened.  They  just
assumed it to  be  true  and  fired me for it.
Mitigation: Going-forward I will still stand up for my EEO rights and refuse
to put myself in any situation where I would be a target of false allegation
attacks. (Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant  asserted  that  he  was  terminated  for  a  false  allegation  that  he
inappropriately touched an  intern when all he did was accidentally bump her shoulder.
There  is  nothing  in  the  company’s  records  to  indicate  that  an  offensive  touching  was
ever alleged against Applicant. He asserted that it was the intern’s idea to have dinner
instead of lunch, which he agreed to but thought it best to bring his wife and child. He
stated  that  she  told  him  her  room  number. He  went  into  the  lobby,  and  her room  was
right by the lobby, so he knocked on her door. (Tr. at 24-25, 98-106, 141-143)
Applicant  stated  that  while  they  were  at  dinner,  he  and  his  wife  discussed  their
marriage,  his  wife’s  spending  habits,  and  a  possible  divorce.  He  mentioned  at  dinner
that  if they did  divorce and he  remarried, he would  want  someone  younger, about  the
intern’s  age,  and  one who  already  had  children,  so  that  he  would not  have  to  start all
over again. He stated that the intern came into his home when he dropped his wife and
child  off.  He  then  drove  straight  to  her  hotel  and  did  not  have  any  personal
conversations  in  the  car.  He  stated  that  his  wife  sent  flowers  once  to  one  of  his
colleagues   on   the   anniversary  of  the   death   of  the   colleague’s   father.  (Tr.  at  106,  110-
112, 143-145; Applicant’s response  to SOR)
I  did  not  find  Applicant  credible.  I  find  that  the  company’s  investigation  into  his
conduct  is more  reliable  than  Applicant,  and  that  he  committed  the  conduct  alleged  in
the report of the investigation.
Applicant  filed a  Chapter  13 bankruptcy case  in  March 2008. He completed  the
plan,  and  his  remaining  dischargeable  debts  were  discharged  in  June  2013.  His  wife
filed  her  own  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  in  about  2011,  and  her  debts  were  also
discharged. (Tr. at 117-122; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 6)
Applicant  and  his  wife  filed  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  on  August  14,  2019.
Under Schedule D, Creditors Who Have Claims Secured by Property, the petition listed
a  mortgage  loan  of  $88,474  (the  house  was  valued  at  $134,227)  and  auto  loans  of
$46,644  and  $34,468  (the  2017  vehicles  were  valued  at  $25,000  each).  Under
Schedule E/F, Creditors Who Have Unsecured Claims, the petition listed $2,357 owed
to the IRS and $153,180 owed to other creditors. The petition listed that both Applicant
and  his  wife  were  unemployed,  with  $2,098  from  his  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs
(VA)  disability  benefits  as  their  only  income.  Their  monthly  expenses  were  also
calculated  at  $2,098.  Their  dischargeable  debts  were  discharged  in  November  2019.
(Tr. at 122; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 6)
Applicant  had  financial  problems  before  he  was  terminated  from  his  job  in  July
2019. He had $2,357 in unpaid federal taxes for tax year 2015. He and his wife bought
two  new  vehicles  in  2017  with  loans  for  both  vehicles  with  balances  that  still  totaled
about $80,000 when the bankruptcy petition was filed. It was reported in May 2019 that
a  credit  union  filed  a  lawsuit  against  him  for  more  than  $10,000  for  an  unpaid  credit
card.  He  retained  a  debt  relief  company  to  assist  him  in  resolving  about  $28,000  to
$30,000 in credit card debt.  He asserted that he did not realize that the company was
not paying his debts. Also, his wife was spending beyond what they could afford. (Tr. at
25-26, 50, 122-135, 145-149; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
Applicant’s  tax  debt  for  2015  was  paid  in  February  2020,  when  $2,298  was
withheld  from  his  refund  for  2019  and  applied  to  the  taxes  owed  for  2015.  (GE  3)  His
current finances appear stable. His most recent credit report does not list any delinquent
debts. It lists $34,167 in federal student loans that are paused due to COVID relief, and
an auto loan that was opened in September 2022 with a high balance of $86,385, with
monthly payments of $1,580 for 83 months and a balance of $83,831. The most recent
balance was $81,758. He stated that the amount is high because he traded in his late
wife’s vehicle, and it had about $15,000 in negative equity that was rolled into the new
loan. He initially testified this was the only vehicle he purchased since the bankruptcy.
He then admitted that he and his late wife bought and sold an additional three vehicles
since  the  bankruptcy.  He  now  has  the  new  vehicle  and  another  vehicle  that  is  owned
without a loan or lien. (Tr. at 47-48, 135-141; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 8; AE
A)
Applicant  is  active  in  his  church  and  his  community.  He  submitted  letters
attesting to his excellent job performance and strong moral character. He is praised for
his  responsibility,  trustworthiness,  judgment,  truthfulness,  intelligence,  honesty,  work
ethic,  reliability,  professionalism,  and  integrity.  He  is  recommended  for  a  security
clearance. (Applicant’s response to SOR)
