Applicant is 61 years old.  He is married with three children.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor.  His position is unclear.  He is seeking
to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline  F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  seven  delinquent  accounts
totaling in excess of $94,365.  Applicant admits allegations 1.a., 1.b., and 1.d. listed in
the  SOR,  noting  that  he  is  working  to  address  them.  He  denies  allegations  1.c.,  and
1.d.,  asserting  that  they  have  been  paid  off.  He  also  denies  allegations  1.f.,  and  1.g.
because  they  are  student  loans  for  his  children  that  he  co-signed  for  and  are  in
forebearance.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated August 10, 2021; and May 24, 2022, confirm
the  indebtedness.  (Government  Exhibits  4  and  5.)  Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Air
Force from July 1979 to September 1988, and received an honorable discharge.  From
September  1988  to  May  2012,  Applicant  was  in  the  FBI  and  retired  as  a  Supervisory
Special Agent.  He began working part time as a 1099 contractor for a Federal defense
contractor in October 2016.  Since March 2017, Applicant has also been self-employed
as  the  owner  of  a  security  firm  and  private  investigations  company.  Applicant  held  a
prior security clearance while working for the FBI.
Applicant does not explain how or why he became delinquently indebted.  He has
not  provided  any  documentation  to  support  the  fact  that  he  has  paid  off  any  of  his
delinquent debts.  Furthermore, he has not provided any  documentation to support his
statement that the student loans he co-signed for his children are in forebearance.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $21,261.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 4 and
5.)
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $17,212.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 4 and
5.)
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $10,916.  Applicant  asserts  that  he  has  paid  the  debt,  but  he
provides  no  documentation  to  support  this  statement.  The  debt  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $8,294.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibits
4 and 5.)
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,465.  Applicant  asserts  that  he  has  paid  the  debt,  but  he
provides  no  documentation  to  support  this  statement.  The  debt  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $9,284.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 4 and
5.)
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $25,933.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibits 4 and
5.)
In 1988, Applicant’s house was foreclosed upon.  He no longer owns this house.
In  the  spring  of  2015,  another  house  of  Applicant’s  was  foreclosed  upon.  Applicant
stated that he was told by the lender to stop making payments on the loan, to allow it to
go delinquent for 90 days, and then he could obtain a “deed in lieu of foreclosure” which
would prevent him from owing anything more on the loan.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
During  his  personal  interview  on  August  18,  2021,  Applicant  stated  that  his
financial  situation  was  good,  and  that  he  is  willing  to  repay  his  debts.  (Government
Exhibit 7.)
