Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  53  years  old.  He  attended  college  but  did  not  earn  a  degree.  He
married in 1997 and separated from his wife in 1999. He has no children. He has worked
for his present employer, a federal contractor, since December 2021. In his April 2022
security clearance application (SCA), he did not disclose any periods of unemployment.
(Item 3)
The SOR alleges a defaulted and charged-off mortgage (¶ 1.a - $39,289) and a
cable bill (¶ 1.b - $131). Applicant disclosed the real estate debt in his SCA and stated:
A   second   mortgage   company  purchased   my  mortgage   so   my   automated
payments  were  going  to  the  wrong  institution. When  I realized  the  error I
started   making   payments  to   the   correct  bank  but  they  were   rejecting
payments. They added  fees  that  almost  doubled  the  mortgage  so  I let it  go
into foreclosure.
The  case  is closed  and  I have  a  check coming  for the  excess funds from
the sale.
The home was sold for more than I owed the  bank. (Item 3)
In June 2022, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. Regarding
the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a, he said that he owned rental property that was foreclosed. The
bank sold his mortgage, and his payments went to the company. He received a judgment
letter from the county court stating the home was in foreclosure. He said that he sold the
house in January 2022 because the property was not being properly maintained, and he
was going to receive a refund because it was sold for more than what was owed. (Item
6)
Regarding the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b, Applicant told the investigator that he closed the
cable account and received a refund. The following month, he was told he had a balance
owed of $131. He said he spoke with the creditor at the time he received the new bill and
explained that he received a refund. He said he had no intention of paying it. In his SOR
answer, he admitted the debt. (Items 2, 6)
Credit reports from May 2022 and January 2023 reflect the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a as
a home equity line of credit individual account. It is reported as  charged off. The cable
debt is reported in the May 2022 credit report as in collection. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant did not respond to the FORM and did not provide any documents to show
the line of credit account is paid and the debt resolved. He did not provide evidence that
he has disputed or resolved the cable bill.
