Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  staffing  company  that  provides
employees to a defense contractor. This is his first application for a security clearance.
He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2009. He has never married, and he has no children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 14-18, 51-52; GE 1)
In 2009, Applicant uploaded his resume on a job-search website. He received an
email from  what  he  thought  was  a  financial  consulting  company.  He  responded  and a
telephonic interview was arranged. During the telephonic discussion, the caller (Ms. C)
asked Applicant to set up a limited liability company (LLC) and open a bank account in
the  LLC’s  name.  Ms.  C  or  someone  she  represented  would  deposit  $15,000  into  the
bank  account.  Applicant  would  keep  $500,  withdraw  the  rest,  and  send  it  by  Western
Union to an unidentified location. Applicant would also receive an additional $2,000 per
month.  Ms.  C  told  him  to  withdraw  the  money  from  different  branches  and  send  the
money through different Western Union locations. (Tr. at 19-53; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 2)
When he initially responded to the email, Applicant thought it was legitimate. By
the time he agreed to the plan, he realized it was an illegal money laundering scheme.
He did not know if the money was going to terrorists, a drug cartel, organized crime, or
some other illegal entity, and he did not care. He admitted that he was greedy and did
not  care  who  benefitted  from  the  scheme.  (Tr.  at  21-24,  53;  Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
August 2020. He answered “No” to a question under Section 29 that asked, “Have you
EVER associated with anyone involved in activities to further terrorism?” (GE 1)
Applicant was interviewed for his background investigation on February 23, 2021,
and again on February 26, 2021. He was asked if he conducted any wire transfers. He
discussed  his  telephone  conversation  with  Ms.  C.  He  described  the  wire  transfers  as
part of a legitimate business venture, when he knew it was not. After being confronted
by  the  investigator  with  inconsistencies,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  attempted  to
conceal the actual nature of his conversation with Ms. C. He admitted to the investigator
that  he  quickly  realized  that  it  was  not  a  legitimate  business  venture,  but  rather  an
unscrupulous  or  illegal  money  wiring  scheme.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  did  not
have concrete proof, but he thought the money was going to ISIS. He admitted that his
actions were solely motivated by greed. (Tr. at 50; AE 2)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  received  four  deposits  of  $15,000  and
transferred $14,500 three times. When he went to the bank to withdraw the money the
fourth time, he was told by the bank that the account had been frozen due to suspicious
activity.  He  told  the  bank  manager  that  he  was  an  innocent  victim  of  the  scheme.  He
followed the manager’s advice and filed a false police report in which he claimed to be
an  innocent  victim  of  the  scheme.  He  attempted  to  call  Ms.  C  and  alert  her  to  the
further
developments,  but  her  phone  had  been  disconnected.  He  had  no
communications with her. (GE 2)
Applicant  told  the  background  investigator  in  February  2021  that  he  was
contacted by the U.S. Secret Service about three to four months after the last attempted
transfer.  He  stated  that  the  Secret  Service  told  him  that  the  funds  went  to  ISIS.  He
downplayed  his  involvement  in  the  scheme  to  the  Secret  Service,  and  he  was  never
charged with anything. (GE 2)
Applicant contacted the background investigator and indicated he had additional
information.  On  February  26,  2021,  he  told  the  investigator  that  the  Secret  Service
never  actually  told  him  the  money  went  to  ISIS,  and  that  the  only  thing  the  Secret
Service  would  confirm  is  that  the  money  went  to  an  Eastern  European  country.
Applicant reaffirmed that it was only a “gut” feeling that the money went to ISIS. (Ge 2)
The two interviews in February 2021 were summarized in reports of investigation
(ROIs).  Applicant  certified  the  ROIs  were  accurate  in  September  2022.  He  initially
testified that the Secret Service provided some indication to him that Ms. C represented
someone in “the Middle East and overseas.” (Tr. at 27) He later testified that the Secret
Service did not inform him that the money went to the Middle East, and that it went to an
Eastern  European  country.  He  stated  that  he  surmised  the  funds  might  have  gone  to
ISIS or the Middle East because the Secret Service was investigating the transactions.
He  stated  that  he  was  honest  to  the  bank  manager,  in  the  police  report,  and  to  the
Secret  Service.  He  also  stated  that  he  provided  the  Secret  Service  with  all  his  emails
and electronic communications with Ms. C. (Tr. at 29-40, 46-47, 52-53; GE 2)
Applicant  admitted,  without  explanation,  all  the  SOR  allegations.  His  testimony
was inconsistent with parts of the ROIs. He testified that he did not intentionally provide
false information on his SF 86 or during his background interview. He stated that he told
the  interviewer  that  the  information  that  Applicant  received  was  false,  and  the
interviewer misinterpreted  his statements  to mean  that  Applicant  intentionally  provided
false information. (Tr. at 47-51)
