Applicant is a 33-year-old married man with one child, age three. He works for a
defense contractor as a shipping and receiving clerk.
One night in July 2011, while driving home intoxicated, Applicant blacked out and
hit the center divider with his car. (Item 3 at 2) He suffered a concussion and required
hospitalization. While recuperating, the police came to the hospital and charged him with
driving  while  intoxicated  and  reckless  driving.  (Item  3  at  2)  Subsequently,  he  was
convicted and sentenced to three years of probation. (Item 3 at 12)
In July 2012, while standing in line at a department store, Applicant’s mother got
into  a  heated  exchange  with  another  patron  about  who  was  next  in  line  to  check  out.
Angry at the woman for speaking rudely to his mother, Applicant yelled at the customer
and walked toward her, gesticulating his hands wildly, and in the process, knocking down
some water bottles from a shelf which hit the lady. (Item 3 at 3) Later that day, the police
came to his home and issued a citation for assault and battery. (Item 3 at 2) Subsequently,
after  pleading  no  contest  to  the  citation,  he  was  convicted,  sentenced  to  two  years  of
probation, ordered to complete anger management classes, and to stay away from the
woman whom he assaulted. (Item 3)
In May 2022, Applicant was charged with the separate offenses of presenting a
false  or  fraudulent  insurance  claim  and  preparing  a  false  insurance  claim.  (Item  4)
Specifically,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  “knowingly  present[ed]  and  cause[d]  to  be
presented, aid, abet, solicit, and conspire with another person to knowingly present and
cause  to  be  presented,  a  false  and  fraudulent  claim  for  payment  of  a  loss  and  injury,
including payment of a loss and injury under a contract of insurance.” (Item 4 at 2) There
is currently an open warrant for his arrest. Applicant denied this allegation but provided
no explanation for the basis of the denial.
