Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since October 2020. He served on active duty in the U.S. military
from 2007 to 2011. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has held since he
was  in  the  military.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2019  and  a  master’s  degree  in
2022. He has never married, and he has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 17, 49; GE 1, 9;
AE B, E, F)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  substance  abuse,  alcohol-related  incidents,  and
criminal conduct. On several occasions between about July 2010 and January 2011, he
used  synthetic  marijuana,  commonly  known  as  “spice.”  It  appears  that  the  substance
was not on the schedule of controlled substances at the time, but the military prohibited
the  use  of  any  substance,  other  than  alcohol  or  tobacco,  for  the  purpose  of  altering
mood  or  function.  He  received  nonjudicial  punishment  under  Article  15  of  the  Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) in March 2011 for violating Article 92 of the UCMJ, in
that  he  was  “derelict  in  the  performance  of  [his]  duties  in  that  [he]  willfully  failed  to
refrain from using the substance commonly known as ‘spice.’” He was reduced one pay
grade, ordered to perform extra duty for 30 days, and forfeited $300. The forfeiture was
suspended.  In  May  2011,  he  was  discharged  for  misconduct  (drug  abuse)  with  a
general  under  honorable  conditions  discharge.  (Tr.  at  24-29,  49-50;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 8, 9; AE F)
Applicant  testified  that  he  consulted  with  an  attorney  before  his  Article  15
punishment and discharge. He  stated that he  “was under the impression that had  [he]
elected to talk to an attorney that it would have went down to a court. And [he] would not
have been able  to  get the general discharge.”  When he was  informed that  he initialed
the record of nonjudicial punishment proceedings indicating that he had consulted with
a lawyer, he stated that he did not recall seeing a judge advocate. (Tr. at 28-29; GE 8)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  State  A  in  December  2013  and  charged  with  driving
under  the  influence  (DUI).  The  police  report  indicates  that  Applicant  was  drinking  in  a
bar/restaurant,  when  he  was  refused  further  alcohol  service  because  he  was
intoxicated. The business called a taxi, but he did not accept the taxi. The manager told
Applicant  that  if  he  attempted  to  drive,  the  manager  would  call  the  police.  Applicant
drove away anyway and was stopped not long after when the police noticed his erratic
driving.  The  officer  noted  a  strong  odor  of  alcohol  and  other  indicators  that  Applicant
was  intoxicated.  He  stumbled  as  he  got  out  of  his  car,  and  his  zipper  was  down.  He
refused to participate in a field sobriety test, and he refused to provide a breath or blood
sample. (Tr. at 30-32, 51; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 7)
Applicant  pleaded   guilty   or  no   contest.   He  may   have   received   deferred
sentencing   in   which   he   paid  a   fine   and   court  costs,  and   he   was  on   unsupervised
probation  for a  year. He testified  that he  did  not have  a  good  memory of what led  to  his
arrest, and  he  did not  recall  if he  was intoxicated  when  he  left  the  bar. (Tr. at 30-33,  51-
53; Applicant’s  response to  SOR; GE  7, 9)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  March  2014  in  State  B  and  charged  with  public
drunkenness. He pleaded guilty and paid a fine of about $500. He does not remember
many details of what occurred other than it was outside his home. (Tr. at 33-36, 55-58;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 6, 9)
Applicant  was  drinking  at  a  bar/restaurant  in  State  C  in  March  2016.  The  staff
offered him options for a safe ride home, but he refused. The staff called the police and
reported that Applicant left the establishment, was possibly intoxicated, and intended to
drive home. The police arrived, and the staff pointed out Applicant, who was not far from
his car. The police officer noted clear signs that Applicant was intoxicated, and he was
shoeless with mud around his legs up to his knees. There is a lake near the restaurant,
and  the  officer  deduced  that  Applicant  walked  into  the  lake  despite  the  temperature
being  about  44  degrees.  Applicant  told  the  officer  he  was  walking  home,  but  he  was
walking  in  the  wrong  direction.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  have  his  car  keys,  but  they
were found in his pocket. (Tr. at 37-40, 59-61; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5, 9)
Applicant  was  arrested  for  the  above  incident  and  charged  with  public
intoxication. He pleaded no contest or guilty to the charge and paid a fine of about $500.
(Tr. at 37-39, 59-61; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5, 9)
Applicant provided inconsistent testimony about the incident. He initially testified:
I  went to  another bar late  at  night  alone,  by  myself.  And  I drank  too  much,
to  excess. And  I didn’t want to  drive  home  because  I knew I had  too  much
to drink so I  attempted  to walk home.
This is when  the  officer, officer  stopped  me  when  I was  walking  home.  He
performed  a  field sobriety  test and  determined  I was intoxicated  in public.
(Tr. at 37)
Two questions later, he answered that he could not recall if he was intoxicated when he
left the restaurant. He also stated that he could not recall if he walked in the lake. (Tr. at
37, 60)
Applicant was drinking at a bar (not same bar as above 2016 incident) in State C
in January 2017. The waitress cut him off and tried to take his keys. At least one person
called  the  police  at  about  0210  and  reported  that  a  car  hit  a  curb,  and  the  driver
(Applicant)  was  standing  in  the  middle  of  the  street  and  appeared  to  be  intoxicated.
Applicant  was  extremely  intoxicated.  His  blood  alcohol  concentration  (BAC)  was
measured at .279%. (Tr. at 40-41, 61-64; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 9)
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  with  a
blood  alcohol  concentration  (BAC)  of  .15%  or  greater.  In  February  2017,  he  pleaded
guilty to the lesser charge of DWI. He was sentenced to fines and court fees of $1,600,
confinement in the county jail for 180 days (suspended for 180 days), and probation for
one  year.  Applicant  stated  that  he  thought  it  was  a  deferred  adjudication,  but  there  is
nothing  in  the  court  records  to  corroborate  that  assertion.  (Tr.  at  40-41,  61-63;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4, 9)
In January 2020, police responded to a report that two individuals were fighting in
the  parking  lot  of  a  bar  in  State  C  at about 2346.  Applicant  was  found  on  the  ground.
The  other  individual  (described  by  Applicant  as  an  acquaintance)  forcibly  stopped
Applicant from driving home. Applicant admitted to the police officer that he had “a lot”
to drink, he was intoxicated, and he planned to drive home until he was stopped by the
other individual. Applicant admitted in his response to the SOR that he was drinking that
night,  but  he  “was  not  binge  drinking  or  drinking  to  excess.”  (Tr.  at  42-44,  65-67;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 9)
Applicant  was  arrested  for  the  above  incident  and  charged  with  public
intoxication. He pleaded no contest or guilty to the charge and paid a fine of about $350.
He has little memory of the incident. (Tr. at 42-44, 65-67; Applicant’s response to SOR;
GE 2, 9)
Applicant admitted that he had drinking issues, but he does not believe he is an
alcoholic, and he does not believe that he currently has a drinking problem.  He stated
that, except  for  his  use  of  spice  in the military,  he  has  never used illegal drugs.  In  his
response to the SOR, he indicated that “it was in his best interest to refrain from alcohol
consumption  entirely.”  He  signed  a  statement  of  intent  in  August  2022  stating  that  he
discontinued drinking, and that he intended  “to abstain from alcohol use in the future.”
He has maintained his “sobriety,” which he described as not drinking to intoxication, for
more than a year. The last time he had anything to drink was in May 2023 when he had
three  beers  with  his  father  at  a  baseball game.  He  is  fitness  oriented  and  goes  to  the
gym  about  five  times  a  week.  He  is  attending  graduate  school  in  pursuit  of  another
master’s degree. (Tr. at 18-21, 27, 46-51, 69-73; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A, I,
J, L-P)
I did not find Applicant credible. I find that the reports into his conduct are more
reliable than Applicant, and that he committed the conduct alleged in the reports.
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance and strong moral character. (AE C, K)
