In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the SOR allegations, with explanations and
clarifications,  except  for  SOR  ¶  1.d.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  60  years  old.  He  married  in  January  1994  and  divorced  in  August
2017  (he  and  his  wife  were  separated  at  various  times  between  2013  and  2017).  He
and his wife adopted two daughters who are now ages 24 and 21. The oldest daughter
(D1)  has  special  needs  and  is  unable  to  live  independently.  Applicant  provides  her
approximately  $1,200  in  monthly  support  payments.  Applicant’s  ex-wife  is  D1’s  legal
guardian  and  custodian.  Applicant  was  granted  weekend  visitation  privileges  and  D1
spends the weekends with him. (Tr. 53-55, 65-66, 87; GE 1)
Applicant  holds  a  master’s  degree.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a
federal  contractor,  for  five  years.  He  is  a  senior  software  engineer.  He  has  previously
worked  for  federal  contractors,  including  his  current  employer.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance since 1996. (Tr. 54-55; GE 1)
Under  Guideline  I,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant: (1) in  about 2002, was treated  by
Dr.  R,   who   diagnosed   him   with   depression   and   prescribed   antidepressant  medication;
(2) in  June   2013,  attempted   suicide   by  using   a   pressurized   nail   gun;  (3)  in  May  2017,
ceased  taking  his prescribed  antidepressant medication, without medical authorization,
and   thereafter  experienced   suicide   ideations   involving   use   of  a   nail   gun;  and   in  June
2021,  was  evaluated   by   a   licensed   psychologist  who   diagnosed   him   with   Major
Depressive  Disorder, recurrent, and  Autism Spectrum  Disorder, mild, without  intellectual
impairment. The  psychologist  opined  that  Applicant  exercised  questionable or impaired
judgment  when   in   an   emotionally  charged   social  and   interpersonal  situation.  (SOR  ¶¶
1.a  - 1.d)
Under Guideline  K,  the  SOR alleged  five  separate  security infractions  as follows:
(1)   in  May  2009   and   (2)   in  June   2015,  Applicant  brought  a   personal  cell   phone   into   a
secured  area; (3)  in May 2016, he  failed  to  properly log-off  of  a  classified  computer  in a
secured  area; (4) between  March  2018  and  December 2018, he brought unauthorized
electronic  devices  into a  secured  area  on  four separate occasions;  and (5) in  October
2019, he failed to properly secure a closed area. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a - 2.e)
Under Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  in  June  2014,  Applicant  was  involved  in  a
domestic  issue  where  the  police  became  involved  when  there  was  physical  contact
between Applicant and his wife; in June 2015,  Applicant was questioned by the police
about  stalking  a  member  of  his  medical  care  team;  and  in  October  2016,  he  was
arrested  and  charged  with  assaulting  his  wife  and  committing  child  abuse  on  his
daughter. All the  allegations  listed under  Guidelines  I  and  K  were-cross  alleged  under
Guideline E. (SOR ¶¶ 3.a - 3.e)
Psychological Conditions.
Applicant admitted being diagnosed in 2002 with depression. He was prescribed
antidepressant medication by a doctor. During his June 2021, mental health evaluation
conducted  by  Dr.  N,  at  the  request  of  the  DOD,  he  indicated  he  was  prescribed
medication for depression as early as 1985 or 1986. (Tr. 59-60; GE 4)
Applicant attempted to commit suicide in 2013 after he had been diagnosed with
cancer in 2010 and believed he only had a few years to live. He explained that he was
concerned  about  his  family  and  thought  that  a  $350,000  life  insurance  policy,  which
expired in a few days, could provide financial support for his family upon his death. He
used a pressured nail gun in this instance. He further stated that his equipment failed.
He testified that he never actually pointed the gun at himself, but he thought about doing
so. In his September 2013 security clearance application (SCA), he used the words “my
failed suicide attempt” to describe his actions that day. (Tr. 60-61, 89-90; GE 3)
During  his  December  2017  background  interview,  Applicant  admitted  to  having
suicidal ideations using his nail gun. He was concerned enough about his thoughts that
he gave the nail gun to a friend to hold for him.  In his interview, he stated that he had
these thoughts because he had stopped taking his medication. He did so by not getting
his  prescriptions  refilled.  He  was  consciously  trying  to  see  how  he  could  get  along
without the medication.  During his testimony, he  claimed that his medication stoppage
was due to a mix-up by his insurance company. He stated this one-month stoppage was
unintentional  by  him.  Applicant  believes  these  circumstances  occurred  in  2018,  as
opposed to May 2017, as alleged in the SOR. His belief is based upon an email he sent
to his employer advising that he had called a suicide prevention hotline. He continues to
take the medications listed in AE S. (Tr. 61-64; GE 7; AE S-T)
In   June   2021,  Applicant  was  evaluated   by  a   licensed   psychologist,  Dr.  N,  who
was  approved   by   the   DOD.  For  his  assessment,   Dr.  N   reviewed   Applicant’s   record,
conducted  testing,  and  performed  a  two-hour  clinical interview  with  Applicant. Applicant
told  Dr.  N  of  his  2013   aborted   suicide   attempt.  He  also  described   his  2017   suicidal
ideations  when he  intentionally went off  his antidepressant medication.  Applicant denied
any current suicidal ideations or depressive symptoms.  Dr. N diagnosed  Applicant using
the   Diagnostic  and   Statistical   Manual   of  Mental  Disorders,  5th  edition   (DSM-5)  with
“Major  Depressive  Disorder,  recurrent”;  “Autism  Spectrum  Disorder,  mild,  without
accompanying  intellectual  impairment.”  Dr.  N  concluded  absent  effective  therapy,  it
would  be  reasonable  to  expect  that  Applicant  might  demonstrate  impaired  judgment
when  his  emotions  run  high  in  the  future,  as  has  occurred  in  the  past  in  social  and
interpersonal  situations.  Applicant  last  saw  a  counselor  in  2019  for  approximately  two
months when he was going through the guardianship issue with his ex-wife. Dr. N gave
Applicant a “fair” prognosis. (Tr. 67, 112-113, 118; GE 4)
In December 2021, Applicant participated in and paid for a second psychological
evaluation. This evaluation was conduct by Dr. B, a licensed psychologist. There is no
evidence  to  indicate  whether  Dr.  B  was  “acceptable  to  and  approved  by  the  U.S.
Government.”  Dr.  B  conducted  a  clinical  interview  with  Applicant,  put  him  through  a
series of tests, and conducted a chart review. Applicant reported current difficulties with
anger  and  irritability.  This  anger  is  directed  at  others.  Dr.  B  diagnosed  Applicant  with
Persistent  Depressive  Disorder,  Social  Anxiety  Disorder,  and  Complex  Trauma  (by
history). Dr. B encouraged Applicant to consider counseling services, which would help
the re-orientation of depression, self-esteem issues, and functional difficulties. Dr. B did
not  offer  a  prognosis  for  Applicant.  In  April  2023,  Dr.  B  supplemented  her  earlier
assessment by clarifying that while Applicant could benefit from life skills coaching and
ongoing executive function, it was not a “necessity” for him to do so. (Tr. 68; AE I, X)
Protected Information.
Applicant  admitted  that  between  2009  and  2019,  he  committed  eight  different
security  violations.  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.b,  2.d) Six  of  the  violations  involved  similar  conduct
when  he  inadvertently  took  his  cell  phone,  or  similar  electronic  device,  into  a  secure
area  without  proper  authorization  in  2009,  2015,  and  four  times  between  March  and
December  2018.  The  violations  did  not  involve  disclosure  of  classified  information.
Applicant  self-reported  all  these  violations.  He  received  retraining  after  the  violations.
After  the  last  2018  violation,  he  was  given  a  written  warning  that  additional  violations
could result in disciplinary action. (Tr. 68, 71; GE 6; SOR answer; AE U)
The two remaining security violations occurred when Applicant failed to properly
log-off  a  classified  computer  in  May  2016.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  distracted
away  from  the  logged-in  computer  and  forgot  to  come  back  to  log-out.  This  was  an
inadvertent  violation  and  no  spillage  occurred.  In  October  2019,  Applicant  was
responsible  for  securing  a  closed  lab  area.  He  set  the  alarm  but  failed  to  properly
secure  the  door.  He  told  a  background  investigator  that  he  must  have  “spaced  out”
securing the door. This violation was discovered by security personnel. He has not had
another security incident since the one in October 2019. (Tr. 68, 74, 114; GE 7 (p. 20);
SOR answer; AE U)
Applicant  explained  that  his  behavior  that  resulted  in  these  eight  security
incidents was heavily influenced by various distractions going on in his personal life at
the  time.  These  distractions  included  his divorce  proceedings,  which  initially  started  in
2013,  but  were  protracted,  and  ended  in  his  final  divorce  in  September  2017.
Additionally, he was involved in a contentious guardianship battle with  his ex-wife over
physical  custody  of  his  adult  special-needs  daughter.  He  sought  the  services  of  a
counselor  when  he  was  going  through  the  guardianship  process.  The  guardianship
action began sometime in 2019 and ended with a judge’s order naming Applicant’s ex-
wife the primary legal guardian for their daughter in February 2020. He testified that he
does  not  have  these  distractions  present  in  his  life  now  and  is  confident  that  future
security incidents will not occur. (Tr. 75, 115-116, 118)
Personal Conduct.
SOR  ¶¶  3.a-3.b  cross-allege  conduct  also  alleged  under  the  psychological
conditions  and  handling  protected  information  guidelines.  The  facts  involving  those
allegations are stated above and will not be repeated here.
Applicant admitted that the police were called to his home in June 2014. He was
not  arrested  and  no  charges  resulted.  He  was  brushing  D1’s  teeth  when  he  and  his
then-wife  got  into  an  argument.  He  claims  that  she  slapped  him  and  he  pushed  her
down.  He  made  sure  he  protected  her  landing  using  his  hands  and  body.  (Tr.  75-77,
SOR answer)
In   June   2015,  Applicant  was  questioned   by   the   police   looking   into   a   complaint
that   he   was  stalking   or  harassing   a   hospital   staff   member   who   had   previously  treated
him. Applicant admitted  this happened. He  received  treatment at a  local hospital in June
2015  and  noticed  one  of the  female  treatment team  members.  He decided  he  wanted  to
talk with   her and   possibly   have   coffee   or lunch   with   her.  He   did   not  approach  her   that
day. A  few days later, he  returned  to  the  hospital with  the  intent  to  talk  with  this woman.
After waiting  for about   an   hour, he   was  approached   by a   nurse   seeking   to   assist  him.
He   explained   he   wanted   to   talk   to   the   female.   The   nurse  explained   that  the   other
woman   was  happily  married   and   Applicant   left  the   hospital.  Sometime   later,  he   wrote
the  woman  a  letter where he  expressed  his  feelings  for  her  and  explained  that  he  was  in
a  loveless marriage. He delivered  it to  the  hospital and  left.  A  few days later he  received
a  call  from  a  police  officer. The  officer explained  the  law regarding  stalking  and  warned
him  from  contacting the  women again. After a  few more days,  Applicant decided  to  write
the  women  an  apology  letter. He met  with  the  police  officer again and  the  officer refused
to  take  the  women  his  apology letter and  advised  him  not to  send  it. The  woman  sent
Applicant a  text  and  in  no  uncertain  terms told  him  that  she  never wanted  to  see  or  hear
from  him  again.  Since  that time, there has been  no  further interaction  with  her. (Tr. 77-
78, 98; GE 7  (  pp. 16-17))
Applicant admitted that in October 2016, he was  arrested for assaulting his wife
and committing child abuse-no injury toward his youngest daughter (D2). Applicant and
his then-wife got into an argument concerning a note he had written. She possessed the
note  in  her  hand  and  he  tried  to  wrestle  it  away.  He  eventually  bit  her  hand.  D2  was
present  during  this  altercation  and  called  the  police.  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged  with  assault  and  non-injury  child  abuse  (because  D2  was  present  and
witnessed his assault). He pleaded guilty to a lesser assault charge and the remaining
charges  were  dropped.  His  sentence  included  12  months  of  unsupervised  probation,
mandatory attendance at 12 anger management classes, 8 parenting classes, fines and
fees.  He  completed  his  probation  requirements  without  any  violations.  He  has  had  no
other incidents involving his ex-wife or daughters. (Tr. 78-82, 104; GE 7 (pp. 9-10); AE
D)
Character Evidence/Performance Reviews.
Applicant  presented   the   testimony   of   two   witnesses   who   were  coworkers   (who
also  wrote   letters  of   support)  and   letters  of   support  from   two   of   his  sisters  and   one
additional  coworker.  One   coworker  and   former  supervisor  worked   with   Applicant   from
2019  to  2020. He is aware  of all  the  SOR allegations.  He held a  clearance  for 33  years
before he  retired  in 2021.  He  stated  that Applicant is a  very good  software  engineer. He
believes  that  the  security  incidents  were  minor and  Applicant  has learned  from  them  so
that  they  should   not   happen   in   the   future.  He  believes   Applicant  is  honest  and
trustworthy  and  has no  concerns with  him  possessing  a security  clearance.  (Tr. 16, 20-
25; AE E)
Applicant’s  second  witness  worked  with  Applicant  from  1997  to  2013.  He  has
held a clearance for 35 years. He is also a retired naval reserve officer. He is aware of
the SOR allegations. During his work experience with Applicant, he was professional in
his  job  performance,  very  intelligent,  and  always  protected  classified  information.  He
was  not  concerned  about  Applicant’s  past  security  infractions  because  he  was  going
through  personal  events  at  the  time  that  are  no  longer  present.  He  is  aware  that
Applicant’s  care  and  concern  for  D1  caused  additional  stress  in  his  life.  He  has  not
worked with Applicant since 2013. (Tr. 39-40, 43-47, 51; AE E)
Applicant’s  third  coworker wrote  that  during  the  time  they  worked  together from
2004 to 2007, Applicant had no security incidents. His two sisters wrote that Applicant is
very intelligent and honest. He has never revealed any work details to them. (AE E)
Applicant provided three years of his work performance appraisals (2020-2022).
In 2020, he was given an overall rating of “achieved/substantially achieved.” In 2021, his
supervisor noted that Applicant improved his relationships with coworkers and managed
his time better. In 2022, his supervisor noted that Applicant was directed to apologize to
a  team  member  for  comments  he  made.  His  supervisor  also  noted  his  concern  over
Applicant’s  “attitude  behavior.”  Applicant  was  also  asked  to  prioritize  his  life  situations
so outside pressures or situations are not projected into his work environment. (AE F)
Applicant  provided  information  about  coworkers’  positive  comments  during  his
current employment. He also provided information on other aspects of his personal life
reflected in many of his exhibits. (AE A, C, G, J-R, V-X)
