Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked  since  October  2013.  He  has  attended  a  community  college  and  an  online
college  but  has  not  earned  a  degree  or  certificate.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no
children.  He  served  with  the  Marine  Corps  from  2002  until  2010,  when  he  earned  an
honorable discharge. (Items 5, 8)
In  the  SOR,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  eight  delinquent  debts  totaling
approximately $40,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h). These delinquencies consist of credit
cards (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g) and a personal loan (SOR ¶ 1.h). He admitted the SOR
allegations.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  The  SOR  allegations  are
established  through  his  admissions  and  the  Government’s  credit  reports.  The  SOR
debts became delinquent between  June 2018  and July 2020. He failed to provide  any
evidence that he contacted the lenders, set up any payment plans for his SOR debts, or
paid any of the accounts. He does not answer phone calls from unknown numbers and
does not open mail that he believes has been auto generated, so he does not know if
his creditors have attempted to contact him. The SOR debts remain unresolved.  (Items
2-4, 6-8)
Applicant  became  delinquent  on  the  SOR  debts  because  he  used  credit  to  pay
for disaster prepping and made no effort to pay the money back. He also acknowledged
that  he  overspent  on  alcohol  at  bars.  He  admitted  that  he  was  irresponsible  with  his
finances.  Despite  having  made  no  effort  to  repay  the  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR,  he
claimed that he is now more responsible with his finances. He claimed that he no longer
uses  credit.  He estimated  that  he  has  about  $300  in  surplus  funds at  the  end  of  each
month, however, he reported having no money in his savings account. He claimed that
in  2019,  he  resolved  a  credit  card  that  was  not  listed  in  the  SOR.  The  available
evidence  does  not  corroborate  this  resolution.  He  provided  no  evidence  that  he  has
undergone  financial  counseling.  He  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more  recent
information about his finances is not available. (Items 3, 7)
