Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in May 2001 and divorced in May 2006. (GE 1) He remarried in
July 2006 and divorced in April 2008. (GE 1) He has no children from either marriage.
Applicant remarried for the third time in July 2008 and divorced in February 2017. (GE
1; Tr. 23) He has one child (age 14) from his latest marriage.
Applicant  has  taken  classes  from  a  local  university  since  2019,  about  has  not
earned  a  degree  or  diploma.  (GE  1)  He  enlisted  in  in  the  Army  in  March  1996  and
served  almost  20  years  of  active  duty  before  receiving  an  Army  medical  discharge  in
July 2016 with a cited 345% disability. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 23, 28)
Since  September  2021,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  as  a  field  service  representative.  (GE  1)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other
employers  in  various  jobs.  (GE  1)  He  reported  unemployment  between  August  2016
and  September  2019.  (GEs  1-3)  Applicant  held  a  security  clearance  throughout  his
Army  enlistment,  as  well  as  with  his  previous  employer before  his termination  in  June
2021  for  cited  reasons  of  testing  positive  for  marijuana.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  23)  Applicant
continues  to  receive  military  disability  pay  and  medical  care  from  the  Veterans
Administration (VA) to “improve my way of life.” (Tr. 23) He is currently sponsored by his
employer for a security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 29)
Applicant’s drug history
During  a  routine,  randomized  drug  screening  in  June  2021,  Applicant  tested
positive  for  marijuana.  (GE  5)  Although  the  amount  of  THC  in  his  system  was  not
recorded, enough THC was found to confirm a positive test for marijuana. As the result
of his positive drug test, he was terminated from his employment. (GEs 1 and 6; Tr. 36)
Once  Applicant  learned  of  his  positive  drug  test,  he  disposed  of  all  of  his  cannabidiol
(CBD  oil).  (Tr. 36) Prior  to  appearing  for his  scheduled  randomized  drug  test  in  June
2021,  Applicant  failed  to  notify  either  the  Government  or  his  employer  that  he  was
ingesting CBD oil. (Tr. 28-30) Further, he did not list his taking CBD oil in the security
clearance application he completed for his current employer. (Tr. 30)
Applicant  denied  using  marijuana  prior  to  his  positive  drug  test  and  claimed  he
had tried a new product (CBD) oil recommended to him by a friend that he purchased in
a local store to help him achieve some relief from the aches and pains associated with
his disabilities. (Applicant’s Response; Tr. 23-24) He claimed he did not know the CBD
oil was enhanced with THC, the main component of marijuana.  And, for this reason he
did  not  list  his  use  of  CBD  oil  in  his  electronic  questionnaire  for  investigations
processing (e-QIP) he completed for his current employer. Nor did he notify his current
employer that he used CBD oil and was fired from his employer at the time as the result
of  his positive  drug  test.  (GE  1;  Tr.  30-31) Asked  why  he  did  not  disclose  his positive
drug test to his current employer, Applicant responded that “he didn’t think it was “going
to be a big issue because he not smoked marijuana prior to his positive drug test. (Tr.
27)
Applicant  acknowledged  his mistake  of using  pre-test  CBD oil without providing
any  documented  evidence  of  pre-test  CBD  oil  in  his  system  and  its  potential  for
producing  positive  test  results  for  marijuana.  (Applicant’s  response;  Tr.  24,  30-31)  He
based his entire denial of marijuana in his system when tested on his verbal assurances
that  he  has  never  used  marijuana  and  has  since  ceased  using  any  form  of  CBD  oil.
(Applicant’s  Response,  Tr.  24)  Asked  about  documented  proof  of  his  taking  CBD  oil
laced  with  THC,  Applicant  could  not  provide  any  product  labels,  correspondence,  or
other  proof  to  verify  his  use  of  CBD  oil  prior  to  testing  positive  for  marijuana  in  his
system.  (Tr.  30)  Nor  could  he  furnish  any  documentation  of  his  claimed  pre-test
notification to his employer at the time of his pre-test use of CBD oil in 2016. (Tr. 30-31)
Whether  the  VA  would  have  prescribed  CBD  oil  to  Applicant  is  unclear  and  really
dependent upon the levels of THP in the product to be prescribed.
While  THC  is  a  chemical  element  typically  found  in  both  CBD-sourced  hemp
plants  and  marijuana  plants,  Applicant  could  furnish  no  evidence  the  oil  used  was
proven to contain THC at levels that could be mistaken for marijuana in a randomized
drug  test.  (Tr.  32-35). Although  traces  of  THC  have  been  found  in  studies  of  CBD  oil,
research  supporting  the  drug’s  benefits  in  treating  these  conditions  is  still  limited.  See
Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research (2023)
When the concentration of THC in tested urine exceeds 50 ng/mL, most tests will
yield  a  positive  result  according  to  data  compiled  by  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control
and  Prevention.  See  https//www.cdc.gov.  Currently,  the  THC  content  in  tested
marijuana  typically  exceeds  13  per  cent.  See  https.//www.urm.rochester.edu.  By
contrast, THC levels in CBD oils are advertised to contain no THC and typically contain
no  THC,  or  very  small  traces  (no  more  than  0.3  percent).  See  L.  Hellicar,  Does
cannabidiol (CBDZ) Contain THC? in https://www.medicalnewstoday.com/articles/does-
cbd-have-thc. Still, studies caution that in some lower-grade CBD products (depending
on  the  source  of  the  marketed  CBD  oil),  tested  CBD  products  can  contain  sufficiently
high  levels  of  THC  to  result  in  a  positive  marijuana  test  under  random  drug  testing
programs. See id.
Asked  to  identify  the  specific  CBD oil  product he  was taking,  Applicant could not
(a) identify  the  type  of CBD product  he  used, (b) document the  labels of  the  product, or
(c)  supply  any other evidence  to  refute  the  positive results for marijuana  reported  in the
test  results   of   his  June   2021   test   (Tr.  32)  Because   of  the   risk  that  CBD  products  can
potentially  contain  varying   amounts   of   THC  that   exceed   the   federally  and   state-
mandated   maximum   THC  percent  levels  for  public  marketing   (i.e.,   0.3  per  cent),
individuals  are  generally advised  to  check  the  labels  of  the  CDC products  they  purchase
in  retail   stores   licensed   to   sell   CBD  products.   See   Mayo   Foundation   for  Medical
Education  and  Research,  supra. (GE 5)
Based  on  the  evidence  produced,  interpretation  of  the  test  results  associated
with  Applicant’s  June  2021  positive  drug  test  leaves  only  two  plausible  explanations:
Either the marijuana tested was marijuana as reported that exceeds recognized cut-off
levels  for  marijuana  or  related  products  (inclusive  of  CBD  oil),  or  the  product  tested
contained  THC  amounts  that  exceeded  accepted  federal  and  state  approval  levels  of
THC  content  (i.e.,  0.3  per  cent).  (GE  5)  Potentially  other  explanations  are  neither
plausible  nor  credible  without  more  information  from  Applicant  on  the  identity  and
sources of the CBD oil he claims to have used prior to his June 2021 positive drug test
for marijuana
Applicant’s finances
Between  2011  and  2016,  Applicant  opened  two  consumer  accounts  exceeding
$13,000 in the aggregate. (GEs 2-4; Tr. 25) Credit reports document that he defaulted in
his monthly payments on these two accounts in June 2022. He attributed these debts to
his  difficulties  in  finding  employment  following  his  Army  discharge  in  2016.  (GE  2)
Applicant  enrolled  in  a  debt  relief  program  in  2020  and  has  since  paid  in  full  the  two
accounts  covered  in  the  SOR  (AEs  C-F;  Tr.  25)  He  is  current  with  his  other  accounts
and has no outstanding delinquent debts.
Endorsements
Applicant is well-regarded by his program and project managers. (AEs A-B) Both
attested  to  his  dedication,  sound  judgment,  leadership  qualities.  and  overall  good
character. However, neither of these managers professed to have any knowledge of the
facts  and  circumstances  surrounding  Applicant’s  positive  test  for  marijuana  in  June
2021, or of his claimed use of CBD oil. (AEs A-B)
