In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c,
2.a-2.f, 3.a, 3.c, and 4.d. He denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3.b, 4.b, 4.c, 4.e, and 4.f.
On September 21, 2022, Department Counsel amended SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.c, 3.a, and 4.a.
The  amendment  purported  to  amend  SOR  ¶  5.f,  but  there  was  no  paragraph  5  in  the
original SOR. Applicant admitted all the amended allegations. At the hearing, Department
Counsel  corrected  the  erroneous  references  to  SOR  ¶¶  5.f  and  5.g  and  submitted  a
corrected amendment with the amended language in italics. The corrected version of the
SOR as amended before and during the hearing, with the changes in italics, is attached
to the record as Hearing Exhibit I. Applicant indicated on the record that he understood
the amendments and corrections of the SOR. (Tr. 8) His admissions are incorporated in
my findings of fact.
Applicant is  31  years  old. He  has been  offered  a  position  with  a  defense  contractor,
contingent  on   obtaining   a   security  clearance.   He   married   in   December   2014,  and   they
had  two  children, now ages 6  and  7. He divorced  his first wife  on  a  date  not reflected  in
the  record. He  married  his current wife  in November 2020, with  whom  he  has a  10-month-
old daughter.
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  June  2014  to  November
2016 and received an other than honorable discharge. He received a security clearance
while on active duty.
In April 2015, Applicant received nonjudicial punishment under Article 15, Uniform
Code  of  Military  Justice,  10  U.S.C.  §  815,  for  assaulting  another  sailor.  The  incident
involved a fist fight that occurred when Applicant asked a fellow sailor to help out on a
project and the fellow sailor did not respond. (GX 6 at 12) His punishment was restriction
for 30 days, extra duties for 30 days, reduction in rate, and forfeiture of one half of his
basic pay per month for two months. (GX 8 at 8)
In August 2016, Applicant and his wife had an altercation over his text messages
with another woman. At the hearing, he testified that his wife choked him, and he slapped
her to stop her from choking him. (Tr. 35-36) Applicant received nonjudicial punishment
for this incident, which consisted of reduction in rate, and forfeiture of one half of his pay
per month for two months, suspended for six months. (GX 8 at 2)
In November 2016, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor assault and battery
on a family member. This incident occurred when Applicant  was playing a video game
when his wife was talking to him. When he ignored her, she broke the game controller,
and he responded by smashing the television screen. (GX 6 at 9) His wife claimed that
he struck her in the face and head, knocking her to the floor. At the hearing, he denied
hitting her, but admitted that he pushed her. He was charged by civilian authorities with
misdemeanor  assault  and  battery  on  a  family  member.  The  civilian  prosecution  was
deferred in February 2019 to enable Applicant to complete court-ordered counseling.  (GX
7 at 6; Tr. 40-41)
During  the  November  2016  altercation,  Applicant’s  wife  was  holding  their  baby
daughter. A protective order was issued against Applicant, and in January 2017, he was
listed as a child abuser in the state child abuse and neglect registry. (GX 11; GX 12) He
will remain on the registry until November 2023. (Tr. 41)
Applicant testified that he did not tell his commanding officer or the police that his
wife was the aggressor in the domestic incidents. His wife was on active duty in the Navy
and he kept silent in an effort to enable her to retain her military benefits. (Tr. 43)
On the day after the November 2016 altercation, Applicant attempted to commit
suicide by overdosing a prescribed muscle relaxant. He called his wife and told her that
he  had  ingested  the  drugs.  His  wife  called  an  ambulance,  and  he  was  taken  to  an
emergency room and then admitted to a military hospital. He received medical treatment
and  was  diagnosed  with  an  adjustment  disorder  with  depressed  mood.  He  was
hospitalized for two or three days and discharged. The medical authorities recommended
that he attend outpatient psychotherapy. He testified that he did not obtain psychotherapy
as  recommended,  but  he  began  obtaining  therapy  about  six  months  later  and  was
diagnosed with anxiety. He stopped the therapy when his therapist retired around 2019.
He resumed therapy for about six months in 2020 but stopped when his insurance would
no longer cover it. (Tr. 43-47; GX 5; GX 6 at 9)
Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from 2012 to 2013. He resumed
his marijuana use in 2017, after he was discharged from the Navy, using it once or twice
a month. (GX 6 at 20). He testified that he has not smoked marijuana since 2020, because
most of his friends with whom he smoked marijuana are married and have children, and
several are DOD employees. (Tr. 66)
In  April  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of  drugs,
possession of marijuana, tampering with evidence, driving with defective equipment, and
operation of a vehicle with an expired license tag. The evidence tampering charge was
based  on  a  police  officer  accusing  him  of  attempting  to  eat  marijuana  that  was  in  the
vehicle when he and an acquaintance were stopped by police. (GX 6 at 14)
The  police  report for the  April 2017  incident recites that the  police  were  operating
a   driver’s  license   checkpoint,   and   they  observed   Applicant’s  vehicle  turn  around   in  a
parking   lot   in  an   apparent  attempt  to   avoid  the   checkpoint.   At  the   hearing,  Applicant
admitted avoiding the checkpoint because he knew that his license tags were expired.
(Tr. 52)
When the police officer stopped Applicant’s vehicle, he noticed a strong smell of
marijuana, and observed that Applicant’s eyes were glassy and he seemed “out of it.” He
observed small pieces  of  what appeared  to  be  marijuana  in  Appellant’s lap  and  on  his
shirt. When Applicant exited the car, the piece of marijuana that was on his lap fell onto
the ground. The police officer asked Applicant to open his mouth and he saw small pieces
of  marijuana  on  his  tongue,  and  his  tongue  was  covered  with  a  green  film.  Applicant
declined to be tested for drugs. (GX 13)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  believed  he  was  innocent  of  the  drug
charges,  but  he  was  told  that  his  trial  would  not  be  until  eight  months  later  unless  he
pleaded guilty. (Tr. 57-58) In June 2017, he pleaded guilty, was convicted of driving under
the influence of drugs, and was sentenced to eight days in jail and community service.
He was placed on probation for 60 months. For the marijuana possession, he was fined
$1,200 and placed on probation for 12 months. For tampering with evidence, he was fined
$750 and placed on probation for 12 months. (GX 7 at 9; GX 9)
In  January 2019, Applicant failed  to  report to  his probation  officer as  required. (GX
10) At  the  hearing, he  testified  that  he  failed  to  report because  he  was unsuccessful in
trying  to  contact the  new probation  officer who  was assigned  to  his case. (Tr. 60-61) The
probation  officer’s affidavit, dated  January 24,  2019, recited  that the  probation  officer had
called Applicant at least twice at a telephone  number that is the same  telephone number
as Applicant  provided  in  his answer to  the  SOR. As of  the  date  of  the  hearing,  Applicant
had  not contacted  his probation  officer. As  a  result, the  running  of his time  on  probation
has been tolled  since January 24, 2019, and  he  is still on  probation. (Tr. 63)
At  the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  psychologist  in
October 2021. The psychologist concluded that Applicant “does not appear to have any
mental  health  conditions  that  would  negatively  impact  his  ability  or  willingness  to
safeguard  classified  information.”  However,  the  psychologist  also  noted  that  Applicant
“has personality  characteristics and  behavioral tendencies that  could negatively impact
his judgment and trustworthiness.” (GX 3 at 8)
When Applicant submitted his SCAs in December 2013 and September 2018, he
did not disclose that he used marijuana with varying frequency between 2012 and 2013.
(GX 1 at  30-31; GX 2 at 19) In his answer to the SOR amendment and at the hearing,
He admitted intentionally not disclosing it in both SCAs. He testified that a military recruiter
advised him not to disclose it. (Tr. 14, 67)
Applicant admitted that he did not disclose his arrest for assault and battery in his
September 2018 SCA, because he believed it was not reflected in his record. (Tr. 68) He
disclosed his arrest for DUI and stated that he was awaiting trial. He did not disclose that
he was also charged with possession of marijuana, was convicted and sentenced, and
that  he  was  on  probation.  When  he  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in
December  2018,  he  admitted  that  he  did  not  disclose  his  probation  because  he  was
concerned that it would affect his application for a security clearance. (GX 6 at 15) When
he  was  evaluated  by  a  psychologist  in  October  2021,  he  admitted  that  he  thought  he
might be able to get by with not disclosing his probation. (GX 3 at 5)
When  Applicant  responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories  in  May  2022,  he  disclosed
that he used marijuana a few times in 2017. He did not disclose that he used marijuana
in 2020. (GX 6 at 20) During his psychological evaluation, he disclosed that he last used
marijuana in 2020, and he confirmed that disclosure at the hearing. (GX 3 at 5; Tr. 66) At
the hearing, he testified that he did not know why he did not fully disclose his marijuana
use in 2020 but he “probably didn’t think about it too hard.” (Tr. 72)
Applicant’s spouse submitted a statement describing him as an exceptional father
and husband with unwavering commitment to the wellbeing of his family. (AX A) A friend
of Applicant for more than eight years describes him as a gifted manager who is forthright,
fair, discreet, and “supremely knowledgeable.” (AX B) A former shipmate describes him
as  a  hardworking,  self-driven,  and  effective  leader.  (AX  C)  A  joint  statement  from  14
sailors  with  ratings  and  ranks  ranging  from  petty  officer  second  class  to  lieutenant
describes Applicant as an outstanding sailor and lists his multiple accomplishments while
in  the  Navy.  (AX  D;  AX  E)  A  retired  sailor  who  has  known  Applicant  for  nine  years
describes him as very respectful of privacy, classified information, rules, and restrictions.
(AX F). A petty officer second class with nine years of Navy service admires Applicant for
his exemplary work ethic, innate generosity, steadfastness, and dependability. (AX G)
