In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.g,
2.a,  3.a,  3.b,  5.a,  and  5.b.  He  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  and  4.a.  His
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a   38-year-old   systems   engineer  employed   by  defense   contractors
since  June  2012. He was unemployed  from  June  to  November 2014  when  he  left  a  job
by  mutual  agreement  after  he   was  accused   of  making   a   racial  comment  to   a   female
servicemember and  touching  her hair  without consent.  He served  on  active  duty  in the
U.S.  Navy  from   August  2004   to   May  2012   and   received   a   general  discharge   under
honorable conditions.
Applicant has never married. He  lived  with  a  cohabitant  from  November  2017  to
April 2020. Before they  separated, he  and  his cohabitant had  difficulties due  in part to
his sexually suggestive text message exchanges with five other women. (GX 12 at 2; Tr.
57) He has a  four-year-old son, and  he  shares custody of his son  with  his son’s mother,
his  former cohabitant. (Tr. 56)
Applicant received a security clearance in January 2006, while he was on active
duty in the Navy. His clearance was revalidated in 2013, while he was employed by a
defense contractor.
In  January  2002,  Applicant  was  charged  with  underage  possession  of  alcohol.
He  was  fined  and  his driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  six  months.  (GX  1  at  43-44;
GX 13 at 2)
In  January  2003,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  reckless  driving  resulting  in  an
accident. (GX 11) The accident occurred when he drove too fast around a curve and hit
a  guardrail.  No  other  vehicles  were  involved.  He  had  not  been  consuming  alcohol
before driving. (Tr. 58)
In  August 2003, Applicant  was  convicted of  reckless  driving by  driving  92 miles
per  hour (mph)  in  a  55-mph  zone.  The  record  reflects  that  the  maximum  sentence  for
this offense was six months in jail, but it does not reflect the sentence that was imposed.
(GX 10)
In  December  2007,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  driving  under  the  influence  of
intoxicants  (DWI).  His blood-alcohol content (BAC) was  .24, well above the  legal limit.
He  was  fined  $350,  his  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  six  months,  and  he  was
required to attend alcohol safety classes. (Tr. 59-60; GX 5 at 7-8)
In November 2009, Applicant was again convicted of DWI. He was sentenced to
jail  for  12  months  and  five  days,  all  of  which  was  suspended.  He  was  placed  on
unsupervised probation,  and his driver’s  license  was  suspended  for one  year. He  was
required to attend alcohol safety classes. (Tr. 60-61; GX 5 at 5)
In  October 2011, Applicant was charged  with  DWI,  2nd  offense  within five  years
and  refusal to  submit to  a breath  test.  He was convicted of DWI and  sentenced  to  jail for
12  months  and  five  days, with  11  months  and  15  days suspended.   His driver’s license
was suspended  for 36  months, and  he  was required  to  complete  alcohol safety classes.
(GX 5  at  5-6;  Tr. 62) Disposition  of  the  charge  of refusing  to  submit  to  a  breath  test  was
deferred and then dismissed in March 2013. (Tr. 66; GX 5  at 6)
While  Applicant  was  in  jail,  he  missed  the  sailing  of  his  ship,  and  he  received
nonjudicial  punishment  for  unauthorized  absence,  missing  movement,  and  violating  a
general  order  or  regulation.  (Tr.  64)  In  May  2012,  he  received  a  general  discharge
under honorable conditions, based on a pattern of misconduct. (GX 1 at 22)
While  Applicant  was  pending  discharge  from  the  Navy,  he  self-referred  to  the
Navy  Substance  Abuse  Rehabilitation  Program  (SARP)  and  completed  a  31-day
inpatient  rehabilitation  program.  His  alcohol  use  declined  after  he  completed  the
program. He stopped drinking between 2014 and 2016. (GX 3 at 4)
In  June  2014,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  job  for  making  a  racially
insensitive comment to a coworker, an enlisted woman in the Air Force. He considered
the coworker a good friend. While off-duty he offered his coworker a drink because he
had  two  drinks  in  front  of  him.  She  declined,  and  he  made  a  comment  that  she
interpreted  as  racial  profiling.  She  complained  to  their  supervisor,  and  he  was
terminated. Applicant disclosed this incident in his SCA as follows:
Formal  complaint  regarding  professionalism  was  submitted  by  Air  Force
member  against  me.  Terminated  by  company  without  being
fully
investigated. . . . Formal complaint stated I made racial comments towards
Air  Force  member  and  touched  her  hair  without  consent.  Air  Force
member  attempted  to  take  complaint  back  during  investigation  however
company found it easier to terminate than continue with investigation.
When  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in  January  2021,  he
told the investigator that he offered his coworker a red fruit punch drink and, when she
declined,  he   told   her  that   everyone   loves  red   fruit  punch.   (GX  12   at  2).  He   told   the
investigator  that  he   was  called   into   his  manager’s  office  on   the   following   morning   and
told  that   he   was   terminated   effective   immediately.   He  told  the   investigator  that  his
employer  did   not  conduct  an   investigation   because   the   Air   Force   member  no   longer
worked   in  the   building.  However,  when   the   Air   Force  investigated   the   incident,   they
found   that  the   Air   Force   member’s  complaint  was  “incorrect.”  He   told  the   investigator
that  his   employer  later  determined   that  the   coworker’s  complaint   was  unfounded   and
offered   him   another  job   within  the   company,   but  he   no   longer  wanted   to   work  for  the
company.  (GX 12  at 2)  The  record  does not contain  any  documentation  of  the  complaint
against  Applicant,  the   investigation   of  that   complaint,  or   the   termination   of   Applicant’s
employment.
In August 2019, Applicant and his cohabitant hosted a joint birthday party for him
and  her  son,  which  was  attended  by  about  30  guests,  including  Applicant’s  neighbor
and his neighbor’s granddaughter. The party ended at about 2:00 am. Applicant testified
that  he  consumed  three  or  four  beers  during  the  day  but  did  not  believe  he  was
intoxicated. (Tr. 76)
Applicant  testified  that,  while  cleaning  up  after  the  party,  he  noticed  that  his
cohabitant’s son was not in his room, and he could not find him anywhere in the house.
He knew that some of the children who had attended the party were spending the night
in his neighbor’s house. He texted his neighbor, asking if his cohabitant’s son was at the
neighbor’s house. When the neighbor did not respond to the text, Applicant went to the
neighbor’s  house  and  knocked  on  the  door,  but  no  one  responded.  Applicant  then
entered the house through an unlocked back door and asked a friend of the cohabitant’s
son  if  he  was  in  the  house,  and  the  friend  stated  that  he  was  “in  the  back.”  Applicant
looked  in  one  bedroom,  but  the  cohabitant’s  son  was  not  there.  He  then  went  to  a
second bedroom and saw a person in bed who had blonde hair similar to the son’s hair.
He testified that he “just kind of peeked in,” “might have had one foot in the door to peek
around  the  door,”  and  softly  called  out  the  cohabitant’s  son’s  name.  The  neighbor’s
granddaughter, who was sleeping in the bed, was startled. He apologized and told the
granddaughter that he was looking for his cohabitant’s son, and she responded that the
son  was  “on  the  couch.”  (Tr.  42-43,  50)  He  found  his  cohabitant’s  son  under  some
blankets.  At  about  this  time,  the  neighbor  came  out  of  his  bedroom  and  confronted
Applicant. Applicant apologized, explained why he was there, and left.
The neighbor’s granddaughter called the police and told them that Applicant had
attempted  to  kiss her, caressed  her hips,  and  invited  her  to  “do  some  coke”  with  him.
The  granddaughter  also  told  the  police  that  Applicant  had  touched  her  breasts  during
the party on the previous day.
Applicant was charged with felony breaking and entering with intent to commit a
misdemeanor  and  sexual  battery.  He  was  represented  by  an  attorney  at  the  trial.
Pursuant to a plea agreement, he pleaded guilty to trespassing and assault and battery,
both  misdemeanors.  He  was  sentenced  to  one  year  in  jail,  suspended  for  five  years,
conditioned on good behavior, completing a ten-week alcohol-abuse treatment program,
and having no contact with the victim or the victim’s family. He will be on probation until
November 2024. In his answer to the SOR and at the hearing, he admitted trespassing,
but he maintained that he was not guilty of the assault and battery and that he pleaded
guilty to avoid jail time.
Applicant’s neighbor testified  on  his behalf at the  hearing.  His neighbor testified
that  they  continued  to  have  casual  contact  with  each  other  after  the  August  2019
incident.  His  neighbor  also  testified  that  his  granddaughter  had  several  “traumatic
issues” in her life and that at the time of the incident, “she was seeking a lot of attention
and  known  to  tell  fibs.”  (Tr.  28)  He  stopped  short  of  testifying  that  his  granddaughter
was  lying,  but  said  that  he  was  skeptical  about  her  accusation  against  Applicant.  (Tr.
28-29, 33-34)
When  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in  January  2021,  he
told  the  investigator  that  before  his  last  DUI,  he  drank  six  to  twelve  beers  about  four
times a  week,  but he stopped drinking for two  years beginning in 2014. At  the time of
the interview, he had resuming drinking. He told the investigator that he consumed two
or three beers about once a week, but that about once a year he drank about six beers
and became intoxicated. (GX 12 at 3)
In  November  2021,  Applicant  underwent  a  psychological  evaluation  at  the
request of the DOD CAF. The evaluation was conducted by video teleconference.  The
psychologist  noted  that  he  “presented  in  this  evaluation  with  a  moderately  antisocial
manner,” “appeared to minimize his responsibility in the problem situations described in
his  background  information,”  and  “blamed  others  in  instances  that  appeared  to  be
matters  of  his  own  lack  of  behavioral  control.”  The  psychologist  concluded  that
Applicant attempted to mislead him about the details of past events to cast himself in a
more positive light than may have been warranted by his actions.
Applicant  told  the  psychologist  that  he  suffered  an  estimated  20  instances  of
broken  bones  in  his  lifetime,  engaging  in  sky  diving,  riding  an  off-road  four-wheeler,
playing  basketball,  and  being  punched  in  the  face.  (GX  3  at  3)  At  the  hearing,  he
admitted that he has always been a high-energy, adventuresome person. (Tr. 51)
The  psychologist  found  that  if  Applicant  entered  his  neighbor’s  home  for  the
purpose  of  sexual  encounter  with  the  neighbor’s  granddaughter,  and  touched  her  and
confined  her  in  her  room  for  a  time,  particularly  if  he  was  intoxicated,  “then  this  act
would represent a nexus between his alcohol use problems, antisocial style, impulsivity,
and  stimulus  seeking  tendencies.”  He  diagnosed  Applicant  with  “alcohol-use  disorder,
severe,  in  sustained  remission  (by  subject  report).”  He  suggested  the  following  as
“diagnostic  possibilities,”  stopping  short  of  a
formal  diagnosis:  attention
deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), predominately hyperactive/impulsive presentation;
and other specified personality disorder (with features of antisocial personality disorder).
The  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant’s  ADHD  symptoms  and  a  history  of
alcohol  use  did  not  present  a  significant  risk  to  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and
judgment,  but  that  “his  personality  condition  certainly  could  contribute  to  a  lack  of
trustworthiness
information.”  The  psychologist
concluded  that  Applicant’s  prognosis  “is  uncertain  given  that  he  did  not  seem  to  be
entirely forthright with [him].” (GX 3 at 9)
in  safeguarding  national  security
The  psychologist  listed  the  following  examples  of  inconsistencies  in  information
provided by Applicant that suggested a lack of candor:
•  Applicant told him that he could not remember when he last drank
more  than  three  beers,  but  he  told  an  investigator in  2021  that  he
drinks six or more beers and becomes intoxicated once a year.
•  Applicant used  the  term  “retired” to  describe  his departure from  the
Navy even though he  was discharged  for misconduct.
•  Applicant  said   that   he   “left”  a   job   in  2014   when   in  fact   he   was
terminated  because  of  a  racially related  comment, and  he  provided
an  exculpatory explanation  of the  event,  when  the  records reflected
that he “very likely” made racially offensive remarks.
•  Applicant pleaded guilty to a crime but told the psychologist that he
did not sexually assault the victim.
•  Applicant told him that he had consumed some alcohol but was not
intoxicated on the night of the alleged sexual assault in 2019.
The psychologist’s conclusion that Applicant was not “entirely forthright” appears
to  be  based  on  the  psychologist’s  conclusion  that  all  the  allegations  against  Applicant
probably  were  supported  by  the  evidence.  While  Applicant’s  guilty  pleas  at  his  trial
would justify a conclusion that he trespassed into his neighbor’s home and touched the
neighbor’s  granddaughter,  the  psychologist  apparently  believed  that  Applicant  groped
his neighbor’s granddaughter at the party, touched her inappropriately after he entered
his neighbor’s house, looking for his cohabitant’s son, and invited her to “do coke” with
him.  The  civil  authorities  did  not  charge  Applicant  with  groping  the  granddaughter  or
offering cocaine to her, and these acts were not alleged in the SOR.
The psychologist also appeared to believe that Applicant made an inappropriate
remark to a coworker that caused him to be fired.  The psychologist stated in his report
that  he  was  told  by  Applicant’s  mother  that  he  made  a  comment  such  as  “all  black
people like Kool-Aid.” (GX 3 at 3) There is no statement from Applicant’s mother in the
record.  There  is  no  record  of  the  investigation  of  the  complaint.  The  psychologist
determined  that  Applicant’s  description  of  what  he  said  to  a  coworker  was  untrue,
because  Applicant’s  mother  described  the  comment  differently.  It  is  not  clear  whether
the  psychologist  knew  that  the  complaint  was  investigated  and  determined  to  be
unfounded, or that he knew that Applicant’s employer offered to give him another job in
the company.
The  psychologist  also  concluded  that  Applicant  falsely  claimed  that  he  was  not
intoxicated on the night of the party, because Applicant admitted to his supervisor that
he  was  intoxicated.  The  psychologist’s  report  lists  a  document  from  Applicant’s
supervisor  as  one  of  the  documents  he  reviewed,  but  at  the  hearing,  Department
Counsel stated, “We weren’t able to  look at that report because  of our rules.” (Tr. 115)
The  security  investigator’s  report  does  not  include  a  statement  from  Applicant’s
employer.  There  is no documentary evidence  in  the  hearing  record  of  any  admissions
by  Applicant  to  his  supervisor  regarding  this  event,  and  no  evidence  from  other
witnesses that Applicant was intoxicated at the party.
Finally,  although  there  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant  ever  was  involved  with
cocaine, the psychologist appears to have accepted the granddaughter’s assertions that
Applicant  touched  her inappropriately  and  offered  to  “do  some  coke”  with  her  as  true,
and  he  concluded  that  Applicant  was  not  being  truthful  with  him  when  he  denied  her
accusation.
Applicant  decided  to  stop  drinking  in  2022,  when  his  son  was  born.  His
cohabitant left him shortly after the birth, but they share custody of their son. (Tr. 56) He
testified that he last consumed alcohol on July 2, 2022. (Tr. 67) Applicant’s older brother
corroborated  his testimony about his decision  to  stop drinking and  the effect  it  had on
his behavior. (Tr. 98-100; 103-05)
Applicant is receiving counseling from a therapist once a week, and he receives
prescriptions from  a  nurse practitioner in the  counselor’s office.  (Tr. 72, 83) In a report
dated  August  8,  2022,  the  nurse  practitioner  stated  that  Applicant  had  abstained  from
alcohol  for  ten  weeks.  Applicant  receives  prescription  drugs  for  ADHD,  anxiety,
depressive  disorder,  and  panic  disorder.  (AX  J)  He  testified  that  he  stopped  taking
drugs  for  anxiety  and  panic  attacks  about  a  year  ago.  (Tr.  84)  Although  he  was
evaluated  for  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD),  he  and  his  counselor  have
determined that he does not have PTSD. (Tr. 81, AX J
Applicant attends AA meetings once or twice a month, but he has not found the
“right group.” He testified that he has completed all of the 12-Step Program. (Tr. 74) He
sees a therapist regularly, and he realizes the negative effect of alcohol on his life. (Tr.
71-72)
Applicant  has  become  more  active  in  his  community  and  has  started  coaching
baseball. He testified, “I’m trying to be a person that I should have been a long time ago,
and it just took me way too long to get here.” (Tr. 72)
Applicant testified that he started having panic attacks in July 2022. He and his
cohabitant  had  started  seeing  each  other  again,  but  when  he  returned  from  a  30-day
deployment, he learned that she was seeing someone else and he was no longer part
of  her  life,  even  though  they  had  three  children  together. (Tr.  79)  He  admitted  that  he
still  suffers  from  panic  attacks  and  depression,  which  he  attributed  to  abstaining  from
alcohol.  He testified, “It's definitely a little harder when you have to face things  face to
face and not just hide them or drown them.” (Tr. 51)
A  friend  of  Applicant  who  has  known  him  for  ten  years  and  was  at  the  party  in
August  2019  submitted  a  statement  attesting  to  his  good  character.  The  friend  also
stated that he did not observe any inappropriate interaction between Applicant and the
neighbor’s granddaughter. (AX G)
Applicant’s
father,  a  retired  Navy  petty  officer,
that  Applicant
meticulously  complied  with  the  revocation  of  his  driver’s  license.  Applicant’s  father,
mother, sister, and some friends drove him to and from work each day. (Tr. 91-92) His
father is proud of the progress he has made in turning his life around. (Tr. 89)
testified
A  Navy  commander  serving  as  the  combat  systems  officer  on  a  U.S.  Navy
combatant  ship,  who  has  known  Applicant  for  three  years  and  served  with  him  on
multiple  ships,  submitted  a  statement  attesting  to  his  skill  as  a  fleet  systems  engineer
and his personal trustworthiness and integrity. She has observed Applicant’s change in
behavior during the past year. She states, “[Applicant’s] mindset has shifted away from
destructive  thought  and  behaviors  and  has  been  laser  focused  on  good  decisions,
personal growth, and impacting others by sharing wisdom he has gained on his journey
and providing motivation through all circumstances.” (AX I at 1)
A  retired  master  chief  petty  officer  who  has  known  and  served  with  Applicant
since  2020  submitted  a  statement  attesting  to  his  technical  expertise,  dedication,
honesty, and integrity. (AX I at 2) An active-duty lieutenant commander who has known
Applicant since August 2022 describes him as a loving and doting father, who is full of
life,  energy,  and  positivity.  (AX  I  at  4)  An  active-duty  chief  petty  officer  has  watched
Applicant make  significant changes in his lifestyle and become a great father and  role
model  for  his  son  and  an  exceptionally  skilled  fleet  engineer.  (AX  I  at  3)  A  former
shipmate  who  has  known  Applicant  since  2006  believes  that  he  has  overcome  his
“personal  demons”  and  “found  love,  purpose,  and  a  peace  that  .  .  .  that  has  forever
changed  him.” He  states  that  Applicant  is  now “patient,  more  measured  when  speaks,
and  most importantly, he  thinks before [he] acts.” (AX  I at 5) A  neighbor for  two years
who has known Applicant for seven years describes him as “very dependable, selfless,
giving, trustworthy, and a joy to be around.” (AX I at 6)
The parents of Applicant’s former cohabitant are both retired sailors. Her mother
is  a  retired  Navy  limited-duty  lieutenant  with  20  years  of  service,  and  her  father  is  a
retired  senior  chief  petty  officer  with  26  years  of  service.  They  consider  Applicant  a
devoted  father  to  his  own  biological  child  as  well  as  two  of  his  former  cohabitant’s
children, treating them as his own. They have remained in contact with Applicant after
he  and  cohabitant  separated,  and  they  have  the  “utmost  respect”  for  him  and  are
confident that he has turned his life around. (AX I at 7)
