Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant owes $51,485 for 16 delinquent
or  past-due  debts  (SOR  1.a  –  1.p).  The  nine  debts  alleged  at  SOR  1.a  –  1.i  are  for
delinquent student loans totaling $45,470, or about 88 percent of the total alleged in the
SOR.  In  response  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  and  provided
explanations  and  supporting  documents.  (FORM,  Item  1)  In  addition  to  the  facts
established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  and  based  on  my  review  of  the  information
presented in the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a single, 41-year-old employee of a federal contractor, for whom he
has worked since July 2021. He has two children, ages 6 and 14, for whom he is obligated
to provide monthly support payments. He served in the Army National Guard between
2001 and 2007, and in the Navy Reserve from 2008 until 2011. (FORM, Items 2 and 3)
Applicant earned an associate degree in 2013, and a bachelor’s degree in 2016.
He used a combination of student loans and educational benefits from the Department of
Veterans Affairs (VA) to finance his tuition. This appears to be his first application for a
security clearance. (FORM, Items 2 and 3)
In the e-QIP he submitted in August 2021, Applicant disclosed that he was behind
on his child support payments in the amount of $2,300, but that he was making weekly
payments of $63.50 to resolve that debt. During the ensuing background investigation,
available information showed, as alleged at SOR 1.j, that he owed $4,100 for past-due
child support. In response to the SOR, he admitted this debt; however, he also provided
information showing he has paid off that debt and that he was able to do so after saving
money  once  he  gained  full-time  employment  in  2021.  The  most  recent  credit  report
submitted by the Government shows that his child support account is current.  (FORM,
Items 1, 2, 4 – 7)
During a personal subject interview (PSI) on September 13, 2021, Applicant further
disclosed  that  he  owed  more  than  $43,000  in  student  loans.  Again,  he  cited
unemployment  as  the  underlying  reason  he  incurred  those  debts.  During  Applicant’s
background investigation, available information showed, as alleged in SOR 1.a – 1.i, that
he owes $45,470 in delinquent student loans. The most recent credit report provided by
the Government shows that these accounts are still delinquent as alleged. In response to
the SOR, he provided information showing that on February 7, 2023, he enrolled in an
income-based student loan rehabilitation program with the U.S. Department of Education.
Aside  from  a  two-page  letter  acknowledging  his  enrollment,  he  did  not  provide  any
information about his income, a schedule of payments, or a record of previous payments.
He also did not explain why he did not enroll in the program earlier; however, the letter
mentions “the payment pause.” This likely refers to the payment pause on student loans
provided for through the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act
signed into law by President Trump in 2020. The moratorium on student loan payments
was extended by President Biden, but is now scheduled to end in October 2023. (FORM,
Items 1 and 3)
Available information  also supports the  allegations of the  delinquent debts at SOR
1.k –  1.p.  SOR 1.k is for a  delinquent gym  membership  referred  to  a  collection  agency.
Applicant admits he  once  had  an  account  with  that  creditor, but  avers he  satisfied  all  of
their  requirements when  he  left the  gym  but  was charged  for another year anyway.  He
has been  trying  unsuccessfully to  contact the  gym  and  the  collection  agency. SOR 1.l is
for a  delinquent cell  phone  account.  Applicant also  disputes this account  and  has  been
unable to  contact the  creditor or to  obtain any current information  about this debt. Neither
of the  debts alleged  in  SOR 1.k and  1.l are more than  seven  years old,  but they do  not
appear on  the  two  most recent credit reports provided  by the  Government.  (FORM, Items
1, 3  –  7)
The debts at SOR 1.m and 1.n are for past-due utility accounts. SOR 1.o and 1.p
are for past-due medical bills that were not covered by insurance. None of these debts
appear  on  the  most  recent  credit  reports  and  with  his  Answer,  Applicant  provided
information showing he has paid both debts. (FORM, Items 1, 3 – 7)
Before  being  hired  for  his  current  job,  Applicant  was  self-employed  as  a
photographer and graphics designer between April 2020 and July 2021.  This was only
part-time  work,  and  he  supported  himself  with  help  from  his  parents  and  by  donating
plasma for money twice weekly. It was not until he started his current employment that
he had reliable full-time income and benefits. Between January 2017 and April 2020, he
was  unemployed  four times  for  a  total  of  25  months.  When  he  discussed  his  financial
problems during his PSI, and in his response to the SOR, he cited his unemployment two
of those three years as the underlying cause of his financial problems. He further averred
that now that he is steadily employed with a defense contractor, he is able to repay his
debts and to meet all of his current financial obligations. (FORM, Items 1 – 3)
