Applicant  is  43  years  old.  He  is  divorced  and  has  no  children.  He  has  an
Associate  degree  and  no  prior  military  service.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  as  a  Gardener.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with his employment.  He has never held a security clearance before.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  conduct  has  involved  questionable  judgment,
lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that
raise  questions  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or
sensitive information.  In his answer, Applicant admits each of the allegations under this
guideline.
Applicant  was  unemployed  from  August  to  October  2020.  He  had  various  odd
jobs between 2013 and 2020.  He has no prior security clearances.
In April 2009, Applicant was cited by Fort Rucker Military Police for possession of
marijuana in the second degree.  There are no further details concerning this citation.
In  about  March  2017,  while  employed  for  a  city  as  a  government  worker,
In
Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  for  testing  positive  for  marijuana.
friend.
February  2017,  he  consumed  a  brownie  containing  marijuana  with  a
(Government Exhibit 4.)  He stated that he took a random drug test two weeks later and
tested positive for marijuana.  Applicant’s employment records reveal that Applicant was
terminated for violating the drug policy which prohibits the use of illegal drugs.  He was
also most likely under the influence of marijuana while on the job, as he was observed
driving a John Deer gator into traffic, and was observed having slurred speech and not
being able to balance or stand.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant completed a security clearance application dated November 11, 2020.
In  response to  Section  23  - Illegal Use of Drugs  or Drug Activity, which  asked, “In the
last  seven  years,  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”
(Government  Exhibit  3.)  This  was  a  false  answer.
Applicant  answered,  “NO.”
Applicant failed to disclose the information set forth above.
In  the  same  security  clearance  application  dated  November  11,  2020,  in
response to Section 13C – Employment Record, Applicant was asked, “Have any of the
following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  years  at  employment  activities  that  you
have not previously listed?  Fired from a job; quit after being told you would be fired; left
by mutual agreement  following charges or allegations of misconduct;  ect…”  Applicant
answered, “NO.”  (Government Exhibit 3.)  This was a false answer.  Applicant failed to
disclose  that  he  was  fired  from  his  employment  for  testing  positive  for  marijuana.
Applicant’s employee records from the city confirm this fact.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
During  an  interview  with  an  authorized  investigator  working  for  the  U.S.
Department  of  Defense  on  January  4,  2021,  Applicant  was  asked  if  he  had  used  any
illegal drugs.  He initially unequivocally denied any drug involvement.  Applicant stated
that he has never used illegal drugs in his life; never been involved in illegal drugs; and
does  not  associate  with  those  that  do  use  illegal  drugs.
(Government  Exhibit  4,  at
pg.13.) Only after he was confronted by the investigator about the information revealed
during  his  investigation  involving  drug  use,  did  Applicant  admit  that  he  had  used
marijuana in 2017.
During  that  same  interview  with  the  investigator  on  January  4,  2021,  Applicant
was  asked about his  involvement  with  possession of  marijuana at Fort Rucker in April
2009.  Only  when  confronted,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  questioned  about  a  jacket
that was found to have marijuana paraphernalia.  He stated that when questioned about
it  by  the  military  police,  he  denied  that  the  jacket  was  his  and  that  he  was  released
without being charged, when in fact, Applicant was cited for possession of marijuana.
During  another  interview  with  the  investigator  on  January  13,  2021,  Applicant
was  questioned  about  his  termination  from  his  employment  in  March  2017.  Applicant
stated  that  he  “left  for  a  better  job,”  when  in  fact  he  was  terminated  for  failing  a  drug
test.
(Government  Exhibit  4,  at  pg.  14.)  Applicant  stated  that  he  ate  a  marijuana
brownie  about  two  weeks  before  being  given  a  random  drug  test  and  that  he  was  not
impaired when he returned to work.  This was obviously false.  Applicant was tested for
drug abuse because he displayed abnormal or erratic behavior consistent with drugs or
alcohol  while  at  work.  Applicant’s  employment  records  indicate  that  his  supervisor
observed abnormal and erratic behavior associated with drug use.  The physical signs
and  symptoms  noted were  slurred  speech, unsteady gait, dilated pupils, blood shot  or
watery eyes, and the odor of marijuana.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant deliberately falsified his security clearance application dated November
11, 2020; and provided  false  information to the  investigator  during personal interviews
on  January 4, 2021; and  January 13, 2021,  in  an effort to  conceal his  illegal drug use
It  was  only  when  he  was
and  the  adverse  impact  it  has  had  on  his  work  history.
confronted  with  adverse  information  from  the  investigator  did  he  provide  truthful
answers to the Government.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  incurred  delinquent  debt  totaling  in  excess  of
approximately  $25,650.  He  admits  the  three  delinquent  debts  with  some  explanation.
these  debts.
Applicant’s  credit
(Government Exhibits 6.)
report  dated  September  28,  2022,  confirms
The following debts are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $22,938.  There  is  no  evidence  of  a  payment  history  or
documentation showing that he has taken steps to resolve the debt.  The debt remains
owing.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,978.  There  is  no  evidence  of  a  payment  history  or
documentation showing that he has taken steps to resolve the debt.  The debt remains
owing.
1.c  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $734.  There  is  no  evidence  of  a  payment
history or documentation showing that he has taken steps to resolve the debt.  The debt
remains owing.
