Applicant is a 38-year-old engineer technician employed by a defense contractor
since 2021. (Tr. 11-12, 35-37; GE 1) He seeks a Secret security clearance, which is a
requirement  of  his  continued  employment.  (Tr.  12)  Applicant  was  previously  denied  a
security clearance in 2017, which was reported in his June 26, 2019 Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) interview. (GE 2, p. 6)
Applicant received  his  high  school diploma  in May 2002. (Tr. 12-13) He married
in  February  2019.  [Note   –   Applicant  testified   at  his  hearing   that  he   married   in  2021.
However, during  his OPM  interview,  he  reported  his marriage  took  place  in  2019. (GE  2,
p.  10)]   Applicant’s   wife   works  as   a   recruiter   for  his   current   employer.  Applicant   stated
that  he   has  four  children,  ages   21,  14,  6,  and   2.   [Presumably,  the   two   oldest  children
are stepdaughters.] He  stated  that  his children  are  all  dependent on  him  and  his wife  for
financial support. (Tr. 13-14; GE 3, p. 20)
Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶   1.a   alleged   that   Applicant   was  fired   from   his  former   employment   for
misconduct  and   misuse   of  company  property  in  about  August  2015;   after  a   company
investigation   revealed   that  he   abused   his  company-issued   mobile   device   during   non-
working   hours, engaged   in personal activities  during   work  hours, and  falsified   his  time
sheet  by  staying  clocked  in  at the  jobsite,  when  GPS  locator verification  proved  he  was
at  his residence or other  nonwork-related  locations. Applicant is not eligible for rehire.
Applicant  denied  this  allegation.  He  disputes  the  claim  of  his  former  employer
that he was fired for misconduct. Applicant explained that in 2015 he learned that, as a
subcontractor,  he  was  not  paid  the  prevailing  wage  that  employees  of  the  prime
contractor were being paid.  Rather than  seeking  legal advice, Applicant  stated that he
brought this discrepancy to the attention of his employer. He continued to work his 40
hours  with  the  understanding  that  he  would  be  made  whole.  (SOR  Answer)  Applicant
claims that he was “let go” versus being fired as a result of complaining to his employer
about the wage discrepancy. (SOR Answer; Tr. 24-26)
Applicant  further  stated,  based  on  his  information  and  belief,  that  his  former
employer  had  not  published  employee  standard  operating  procedures,  a  manual,  or
rules.  He  was  supervised  by  the  prime  contractor  and  his  use  of  the  employer-issued
cell phone was very informal. He claimed that he received no counseling or reprimands
and was never told he was fired. Applicant added that he did not commit any crimes, let
alone drug crimes, or seeing women on Craigslist in light of the fact that he was recently
married with his wife being pregnant.  [Note –  as described supra, he married in 2019
and he was fired in 2015.] Applicant added that his former employer had every reason
to  disparage  his  character  after  he  left  the  company  because  if  he  reported  this  pay
discrepancy it would undermine any claim his employer might make of being unaware of
the  pay  discrepancy,  and  his  employer’s  state  taxes  would  not  increase  if  Applicant
were  fired  for  cause.  (SOR  Answer)  The  following  contains  references  to  Applicant’s
SOR Answer as well as references from the transcript.
Applicant  claims  he  “did  not  get  the  impression  he  was  fired  for  misconduct  or
abuse of company property.” He stated that he was neither counseled nor written up for
misuse of company property nor for any other misconduct. Applicant remembers being
told  that  he  was  being  “let  go”  in  part  because  his  employer  was  having  financial
difficulty  and  could  not  afford  to  pay  the  prevailing  wage  to  everyone.  Applicant’s
employer  gave  him  a  check  for  “around  $3,000,”  which  he  did  not  agree  with  and
walked out, not the other way around. He claimed that if he had been fired for cause, his
employer  would  not  have  given  him  a  check  for  the  amount  they alleged  was  the  pay
difference. (SOR Answer; Tr. 30-35, 38-41)
A  letter  dated  July  19,  2016,  from  Applicant’s  former  employer  to  the  state
employment development department (EDD) signed by their vice president states:
This  is  in  response   to   the   claim   filed   by  [Applicant]   stating   (that)  his
termination   was  due   to,  “Employer  OK   for   me   to   work  through   my  break
and  leave 20 min  early  and  clock out later but  fired  me  for this.”  [Applicant]
was terminated  from  our company for misconduct of company property  by
using   his  company  issued   mobile   device  to   engage   in  personal  activities
during  work hours,  abuse  of  mobile  device  during  non-working  hours and
falsifying time  sheet  records by  staying  clocked  in  at  the  jobsite  when  GPS
locator  verification   proved   he   was   at   his   residence   or   other  non-work
related   location.  As   a   field  technician   he   is   working   at   different  jobsites
each   week.  He  does  not  come   into   the   office   to   clock  in  for   his shift,   but
instead   has  a   company  issued   mobile   device  with   our  time   tracking
platform  installed. This  is how he  clocks in and  out for his shift and  lunch
period.  At  no   point   in  his  employment   with   our company that  it  has  been
approved to  “skip”  or work through such lunch or break periods.
Attached  to  this letter are a  few incidents of proof we found of his activities
of  misconduct  during   work  hours  and   misuse   of  his  company  issued
mobile  device, as  well as location  and  time  stamps of  when  he  stated  he
was  at  work  but  in  fact  left  hours   prior.  Unfortunately,  we  have   over  500
pages of proof showing misconduct. (GE 4)
Applicant stated that he did not tell the EDD that he had been  fired. (Tr. 50-52)
He  found  out  that  EDD  denied  his  application  for  unemployment  benefits  when  he
contacted them by telephone. (Tr. 51-52) Applicant maintained that he was allowed, and
it was customary to clock out early if he worked through his lunch hour. (Tr. 53-54)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  was  authorized  to  use  the  company-issued  mobile
phone  during  non-working  hours.  He  further  claimed  that  all  employees  used  their
company-issued mobile phones for personal use during and after working  hours (SOR
Answer; Tr. 27-29)
As  to  “personal  activities”  during  working  hours,  his  employer  referred  to  text
messages  between  Applicant  and  female  friends  in  a  different  state.  Some  of  those
texts were during working hours, but his employer alleged these were Craigslist girls he
met for “interludes.” Applicant asserts this allegation is “unequivocally false and denied.”
He  concedes  he  engaged  in  personal conduct  during  working  hours  but  denied  that  it
ever  interrupted  his  commitment  to  his  job  and  that  it  was  minor  and  likely  during
breaks. (SOR Answer; Tr. 28)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  his  employer  provided  employees  with  GPS
capabilities on their cell phones to help track them on the jobsite. He added “that wasn’t
up front of what it was for . . . .” With company-issued cell phones, employees were able
to clock in and out of work. Employees would typically report directly to the jobsite. (Tr.
41-43)
Applicant  testified  that  it  would  not  surprise  him  that  his  former employer’s  vice
president told the OPM investigator that when he turned his company cell phone in, they
discovered ads for Craigslist and Backpage. This would not surprise him because at the
time  he  was  dating  and  that  was  nothing  to  lie  about.  (Tr. 43)  When  asked  whether  it
would surprise him that the vice president told the OPM investigator that they were able
to see that Applicant was meeting up with these individuals at his residence during the
workday,  Applicant  replied,  “I  would  say that’s  B.S.”  (Tr.  44-45) Applicant testified  that
he  thought  the  vice  president’s  reporting  his Craigslist  activity  during  working  hours to
the OPM investigator was “[a] hundred percent” untruthful. (Tr. 44) Applicant stated his
interaction with the company vice president was “very minimal.” (Tr. 44) Applicant does
not  recall  being  shown  proof  of  his  Craigslist  meetings  at  home  during  working  hours
when  he  was  fired  by  his  employer,  stating,  “At  the  time,  it  was  a  little  heated  at  that
time.” (Tr. 44-46) He does not remember the vice president walking him to the door on
the day he was fired. (Tr. 46)
When  asked  whether  he  was  told  he  was  being  let  go,  Applicant  responded,
“Yeah. And they literally tossed me a check in an envelope and said, here, we’re letting
you  go.”  (Tr.  47)  When  queried  further  after  acknowledging  the  foregoing  and  asked
how  he  was  not  under  the  impression  he  was  not  being  fired  that  day,  Applicant
responded, “I mean, I’ve never been fired before, but usually – I mean, when someone
hands you a check and says, we’re letting you go – I mean now that maybe I look back
onto it and as I’m older, yeah. But then, no. I mean I didn’t take it as being fired. I mean,
I’ve  never  been  in  that  situation  where  someone  hands  you  money  and  said,  here.
Here’s you know, three or five grand. We’re letting you go. You have our reasons. You
have  your  reasons.  No,  I  didn’t  take  it  as  that,  you  know.  Then,  I  didn’t.  No.”  (Tr.  48)
Applicant acknowledged the check he received was his final paycheck. (Tr. 48)
As to falsifying time sheets, Applicant claimed that he was authorized to remain
clocked-in  if  the  deviation  from  work  was  minor  or  not  significant  enough  in  time  or
manner to require clocking in or out. Applicant stated that he was authorized to work off-
site,  and  when  he  was  off-site,  he  was  working.  He  claimed  that  his  employer  told
employees to put 7.5 hours into the system unless they were directed otherwise. (SOR
Answer: Tr. 31-32)
As  to  the  allegation  that  Applicant  exchanged  marijuana  in  the  workplace,  he
claims  to be “taken  aback  and  shocked”  by  this allegation. He  “wholeheartedly denied
doing so.”  As marijuana  was illegal in his state of  residence  in 2016, Applicant opines
that  this  allegation  undercuts  his  employer’s  allegation  that  they  did  not  report  it  and
kept  him  employed.  (SOR  Answer;  Tr.  29-30)  When  questioned  during  his  hearing
about reports of him exchanging marijuana on the jobsite, Applicant stated that he had
no  idea  of  how  such  reports  could  be  made.  It  would  surprise  him  to  learn  that  his
employer’s vice president overheard him telling the  receptionist that he liked to smoke
marijuana. Applicant stated that if the vice president told the OPM investigator that, she
would be lying. (Tr. 49-50)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  that  when  Applicant  completed  his  April  5,  2018  SF-86,  he
falsified  his  answer  to  Section  13C  –  Employment  Record  by  answering  “no”  when
asked  whether  in  the  last  seven  years had he  been  fired from a  job. Applicant denied
this allegation. (SOR Answer)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleged  that  when  Applicant  completed  his  April  5,  2018  SF-86,  he
falsified  his  answer  to  Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities  #  Name  of  Employer
Reason  for  Leaving  Question  for  this  employment  by  answering  “no”  when  asked
whether  in  the  last  seven  years  he  had  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially
reprimanded,  suspended  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a
violation of security policy. Applicant denied this allegation. (SOR Answer)
With  regard  to  these  falsification  allegations,  Applicant  stated  that  unfortunately
he  rushed  to  complete  his  SF-86  because  he  was  “on  the  clock”  at  his  employer  and
hastily  responded  thinking  his  unique  circumstances  did  not  fit  neatly  into  the
parameters of the question. He conceded that he should have asked someone and as a
result  answered  no.  Applicant  testified  that  he  thought  he  was  being  truthful  when  he
stated that he had never been fired. (SOR Answer; Tr. 37-40)
Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  four  work-related  character  letters  from  individuals  who
lauded  his  performance  and  supported  him  being  granted  a  clearance.  He  also
submitted  a  personal  statement  that  provided  biographical  information  and  family
photographs. (SOR Answer)
