Applicant  is  33  years  old.  He  is  twice  divorced,  resides  with  his  girlfriend,  and
they have a  two-year old  daughter.  He has Air  Force military  training, and a Master’s
Degree  in  Cybersecurity.  He  holds  the  position  of  Systems  Administrator.  He  is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  eleven  allegations  consisting  of  delinquent  debts  totaling  in
excess  of  $240,000,  which  include  charge-offs  and  collection  accounts.  Applicant
admits each of the allegations with explanations.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated
May  9,  2022;  and  September  14,  2022,  confirm  that  he  is  indebted  to  each  of  the
creditors listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  2011  through  March  2018.  During
his  military  career,  Applicant  was  deployed  four  times,  including  to  Abu  Dhabi,  Kuwait
and  Qatar.  During  his  last  deployment,  Applicant  was  seriously  injured  and  became
permanently and  100 percent disabled.  He receives $4,200 a month for his disability.
In March 2018, he received an honorable discharge, and retired as an Staff Sergeant,
E-5.  (Tr. pp. 21-22.)
Applicant  explained  that  his  delinquent  financial  history  started  during  his  first
deployment in the military.  (Tr. p. 32.)  Applicant was married to his first wife from 2011
to 2015.  His wife did not work outside of the home.  During his first deployment, his wife
had access to his bank account, and was supposed to pay the household bills and keep
Instead,  she  enjoyed  buying  expensive  designer  hand  bags  and
everything  current.
other luxury items.  She was not educated on how to properly manage  finances.  She
made  minimum  payments  toward  some  of  the  debts  and  others  she  ignored.  At  the
time of their divorce in 2015, Applicant was indebted in the amount of $60,000.  (Tr. pp.
33 and 39.)
In  2017,  Applicant  married  his  second  wife.  At  the  time  they  were  married,
Applicant was leaving on deployment, and they never moved in together.  She lived with
her parents and she stayed there.  She had access to Applicant’s bank account and she
was expected to pay his household bills for him while he was deployed.  Unbeknownst
to the Applicant, she did not pay the bills.  Instead, she spent his money on other things,
but he is not sure what she purchased.
During his last deployment, Applicant was seriously injured when a forklift hit him
in the head causing traumatic brain injury, and a broken knee and back.  (Tr. p. 22.)  In
March  2018,  Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  Air  Force.  At  that  time,  he  moved  in
with his mother who helped take care of him.  He received unemployment benefits, and
underwent  extensive  therapy  and  rehabilitation  at  VA  medical  facilities.
(Tr.  p.  40.)
Applicant  was  not  aware  of  the  extent  of  his  financial  indebtedness  until  he  started
receiving  letters  from  creditors  that  told  him  how  much  debt  he  owed.  By  this  time,
Applicant’s debt had increased from $60,000 to $240,000.  (Tr. p. 40.)  He divorced his
second wife in 2019.  (Tr. p. 23.)
Upon learning of the debt, Applicant contacted each of the creditors to set up a
payment  plan.  He  also  contacted  an  attorney  and  was  advised  to  file  for  Chapter  7
bankruptcy  to  discharge  his  debt.  A  letter  from  his  attorney  dated  August  24,  2022,
confirms the arrangement.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)  Applicant found it difficult to contact
this  attorney,  and  as  a  result,  was  not  able  to  make  progress  towards  resolving  his
debts.  (Tr. p. 47.)
In May 2023, Applicant hired another law firm to help him.  This law
firm  moved  swiftly,  and  filed  the  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy  petition  in  June  2023.
(Applicant’s Exhibit C, and Tr. p. 48.)  Applicant stated that each of the creditors listed in
the SOR were named in the  in the Chapter 7  bankruptcy petition.  (Applicant’s Exhibit
C.)  The debts are not yet discharged.
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $32,848 for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $30,579 for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.c. Applicant  is indebted to a  creditor in the amount of $30,193  for an account
that  was  charged  off.  This is a  delinquent  credit  card.  The  debt has  been  included  in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.d. Applicant is indebted to a creditor  in the amount of $29,551  for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $27,485 for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $25,646  for  an  account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $18,874 for an account
that  was  charged  off.  This  is  a  personal  loan.  The  debt  has  been  included  in  the
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.h. Applicant is indebted to a creditor  in the amount of $15,269  for an account
that was placed for collection.  This is a personal loan.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.i.  Applicant is indebted to  a creditor in the amount of $10,364  for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.j. Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $5,589 for an account that
was  charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in the
Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $15,269 for an account
that was charged off.  This is a delinquent credit card.  The debt has been included in
the Chapter 7 Bankruptcy petition filed in June 2023.  Applicant believes that this is the
same debt listed in 1.h., above.  (Tr. p. 52.)  It is unclear from the evidence whether this
debt  is  the  same  debt  listed  in  1.h.,  or  whether  this  is  a  separate  debt.  The  debt
remains owing.
Applicant  is  currently  working  with  his  attorney  to  get  his  debts  discharged  as
soon as possible.  Applicant has learned from this experience and understands that he
must  be  extremely  careful  in  handling  his  finances  to  ensure  that  his  bills  are  always
paid on time, and that he lives within his means.  He stated that he plans to never use
credit cards again.
Applicant  has  a  new  girlfriend  who  works  as  a  Program  Manager  and  earns
about $120,000 annually.  He stated that she is financially responsible.  Applicant earns
about $99,000 annually, not including overtime and bonuses.  (Tr. p. 19.)  They have a
daughter  who  was  born  in  2021.  They  live  together  and  split  the  monthly  expenses
which include their house payment, utilities, and child-care for their daughter.  Applicant
pays  his  own  car  payment  and  other  miscellaneous  expenses.  He  stated  that  after
paying  all  of  his  monthly  bills,  he  has  about  $2,500  left  is  discretionary  funds.
(Applicant’s Exhibit E.)  Applicant has a 401(k) that has about $34,000 in it.  He plans
on marrying his girlfriend in the near future.
Nine  letters  of  recommendation  from coworkers and military associates  indicate
that  Applicant  is  an  upstanding  citizen  and  a  hard  worker.  He  is  always  professional
and  respectful.  He  follows  all  company  rules  and  regulations  concerning  how  to
properly protect classified information.  Applicant has given them no reason to question
his honestly, trustworthiness and reliability.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
