In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted,  without  comment,  to  the  single
allegation of drug involvement in this SOR. His admission is incorporated in my findings
of fact.
Applicant is a 25-year-old engineer currently sponsored by a defense contractor.
He  graduated  from  high  school  in  May  2016,  and  subsequently  enrolled  in  a  full-time
university program of study in August 2016. He completed the program in May 2020, and
was awarded a bachelor’s degree. Applicant has never been married and does not have
children.
Applicant completed  his first  SCA in March 2021,  while being  sponsored  by  the
U.S. Customs  and  Border  Protection  (Customs). He disclosed  that  Customs  determined
he  was ineligible  for a   security clearance  and  thus denied  his request  for a  clearance.
(Item  4  at 7, and  Item  3  at 60)  He previously disclosed  in his SCA that he  purchased  and
used  marijuana  from  September 2016  through  February 2021, and  that the  frequency of
his marijuana  use  was “approximately  4-5  times per month.” He stated  he  used  marijuana
for “stress  relief.” (Item   2   at   43   through   44)   He  also   indicated   his   intention   to   continue
using  marijuana  in the  future, responding “yes”  to  this question.  (Item  2 at 44)
Applicant subsequently completed his second nearly identical SCA in November
2021, this time, sponsored by a defense contractor. (Item 3) He made additional updated
disclosures in his second SCA. For example, he disclosed he continued to use marijuana
through September 2021, with the same frequency and for the same stated purpose of
stress  relief.  He  also  continued  to  purchase  marijuana  during  this  period.  He  did  not
include the additional dates  because marijuana, he  stated, was no  longer illegal in  his
state. Rather than through friends and others, he purchased marijuana through a state
dispensary.  (Item  3  at  57  through  59)  He  again  stated  his  intention  to  continue  using
marijuana in the future. (Item 3 at 58)
In his February 2022 interview, after the investigator informed him using marijuana
was federally illegal, Applicant stated he would discontinue using marijuana if this affects
his job and  that he would  have no future  intent.  He  previously  stated during the  same
interview that he was not dependent on marijuana, that he could stop using it at any time,
and that he had never received treatment or counseling for marijuana use. He also told
the investigator marijuana had a calming effect on him and that he used it to relieve stress.
(Item 4 at 7)
In  about  November  2022,  prior  to  issuance  of  the  SOR,  Applicant  verified  the
accuracy of his summarized interview with DoD investigators, and responded to specific
questions  concerning  his  most  recent  drug  involvement.  (Item  4)  He  admitted  he
continued his use of marijuana through October 2022, stating he used it “about every 10
days.” He also reiterated prior statements made concerning his future intent, namely, that
he would continue using marijuana in the future, and that he had no intent to change his
behavior. (Item 4 at 9)
