Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional
findings of fact follow.
Background
Applicant married in June 2006 and has two children (ages 10 and 21) from this
marriage. (GE 1; Tr. 36) He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2017. (GE 1; Tr. 86) He
enlisted in the Marine Corps in January 2000 and served 12 years of active duty before
his retirement in July 2012 with an honorable discharge. (GE 1; Tr. 37)
Since December 2017, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a logs
and records specialist. (GE 1; Tr. 71) He reported unemployment between August 2016
and December 2017 and  brief employment with another employer between June 2016
and August 2018. (GE 1) Applicant reported another period of unemployment between
July 2012 and May 2013 following his military discharge. (GE 1) He has held a security
clearance since 2018. (GE 1)
Applicant’s finances
Between  2013  and  2017,  Applicant  took  out  student  loans  with  the  (DoE)  to
finance  his  college  education.  Altogether,  Applicant  accumulated  student  loans
exceeding  $22,000.
(GEs  2,  5-8)  Beginning  in  2017  (following  the  expiration  of  his
student loan forbearance from the DoE, he made payments to a third-party intermediary
who  he  believed  at  the  time  to  be  forwarding  his  payments  (through  his  spouse  who
manages his finances) to the DoE through an authorized DoE agent intermediary. (GE
3;  Tr.  26-28,  50-56,  80-83)  This  agent  intermediary  failed  to  forward  Applicant’s
payments  on  to  the  DoE  as  required  by  Applicant’s  payment  agreement.  (Tr.  31-34).
The  intermediary  has  since  been  liquidated  and  is  unavailable  to  account  for  the
payments that Applicant made.  (Tr.  46-47)
Applicant has the  means to  pay his  student loan  debts as they  become  due  and
is currently  in  good  standing  with  the  DoE  on  his student loans. (AEs A-E  and  G; Tr. 58-
62,  and  85-87) He currently earns around  $80,000  a  year from his  work and  receives an
additional $20,000  a   year in Veterans Administration  (VA) disability  payments. (Tr. 43-
44, 75)
Based on a review of the record as a whole, Applicant’s documented evidence is
sufficient  to  surmount  the  Government’s  prima  facie  case.  Applicant’s  evidence
substantively  and  credibly  explained,  extenuated,  and  mitigated  the  Government’s
concerns  about  the  state  of  Applicant’s  finances.  Under  the  Adjudicative  Guidelines
covering financial consideration concerns, Applicant’s student loan delinquencies have
been  extenuated  and  mitigated  under  the  applicable  mitigating  conditions  (MCs)  as
follows: MC ¶¶ 20(b), “the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person’s  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business  downturn,
unexpected  medical  emergency  a  death,  divorce  or  separation,  clear  victimization  by
predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the individual acted responsibly under
the  circumstances,”  and  20(d),  “the  individual  initiated  and  is  adhering  to  a  good-faith
effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.”
Addressing  the  allegations  of  Applicant’s  falsifying  his  e-QIP,  Applicant’s
presented  evidence  of  a  good-faith  misunderstanding  of  his  being  delinquent  on  his
student  loan  obligations  is  both  credible  and  convincing.  Based  on  a  full  and  careful
consideration of the Government’s evidence and Applicant’s challenges, inferences and
conclusions  are  warranted  that  allegations  of  falsification  of  Applicant’s  e-QIP  are
unsubstantiated.
Considering both the applicable mitigating conditions covered by Guideline F and
the  absence  of  substantiating  evidence  of  falsification,  a  whole-person  assessment  of
Applicant’s  clearance  eligibility  is  supported  by  a  sufficient  demonstration  of  restored
financial responsibility by Applicant in the management of his finances to enable him to
maintain  sufficient  control  of  his  finances  to  meet  minimum  standards  for  holding  a
security clearance.
I have  carefully applied  the  law,  as set forth  in Department  of  Navy v. Egan,  484
U.S.   518   (1988),  Exec.  Or.  10865,  the   Directive,   and   the   AGs,   to   the   facts  and
circumstances  in  the   context  of  the   whole  person.  And,   I   conclude   financial
considerations and  personal  conduct  security concerns are fully mitigated. Eligibility for
access  to classified information  is  granted.
Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR,
as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Guideline  F  (FINANCIAL CONSIDERATIONS):  FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:
For Applicant
Guideline  E (PERSONAL CONDUCT):
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraph  2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented  by  the  record  in  this  case,  it  is
clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.
__________________________
Roger C. Wesley
Administrative Judge
