Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked since July 2020. He earned a high school diploma in June 2014 and has taken
some  undergraduate  courses  but  has  not  earned  a  degree  or  certificate.  He  is  twice
divorced,  having  been  married  for three months  in  2016  and  for nine  months  in  2017.
He  remarried  in  January  2018.  He  has  three  children  and  a  stepchild.  He  served  with
the Navy from 2014 until 2019, when he earned an honorable discharge. (Items 3, 7)
In  the  SOR,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  six  delinquent  debts  totaling
approximately  $56,000  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.f).  These  delinquencies  consist  of  car
loans (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e), unpaid rental obligations (SOR ¶ 1.b), a cable debt (SOR ¶
1.c),  unpaid  tuition  (SOR  ¶  1.d),  and  a  personal  loan  (SOR  ¶  1.f).  The  car  loans
comprise about $53,000 of the $56,000 total SOR indebtedness. He admitted the SOR
allegations  with  additional  comments.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.
The  SOR  allegations  are  established  through  his  admissions  and  the  Government’s
credit reports. The SOR debts became delinquent between 2018 and 2021. (Items 3-7)
In Applicant’s March 2023 response to the SOR, he claimed that he satisfied the
debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.d.,  and  1.f.  on  unspecified  dates.  He  claimed  he  is  making
payments on the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b. He further claimed that the car loan in SOR ¶ 1.a is
“closed,”  and  that  he  will  attempt  to  make  payment  arrangements  on  the  car  loan  in
SOR  ¶  1.e.  He  failed  to  provide  any  documentary  corroboration  that  he  contacted  the
lenders,  set  up  any  payment  plans  for  his  SOR  debts,  or  paid  any  of  the  accounts.
Contrary  to  department  counsel’s  assertion  that  Item  4  provides  proof  that  there  is  no
balance  on  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.c,  I  find  that  Item  does  not  support  her
statement.  Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more  recent  information  about
his  finances  is  not  available.  Given  the  lack  of  corroborating  evidence,  I  find  that  the
SOR debts remain unresolved. (Items 3-7)
Applicant  became  delinquent  on  the  SOR  debts  because  he  borrowed  more
money than he could afford to  repay. While he did not explicitly offer his divorces as a
basis for his financial issues, they presumably played a role. He claimed that he earns
enough income each month to pay his financial obligations. The evidence shows that he
has resolved other delinquent accounts in the past, but it also shows that he is behind
on four debts that were not included in the SOR. He provided no evidence that he has
undergone financial counseling. (Items 4, 7)
