Applicant admitted  SOR ¶¶  1.a,  1.c, 2.a,  2.c, and  3.a. She  denied  SOR ¶¶  1.b  and
2.b.  After  a   thorough   and   careful  review   of  the   pleadings,  testimony,   and   exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 42 years old. She earned some college credits but not a degree. She
married  in  2007  and  divorced  in  2010.  She  remarried  in  2012.  She  has  six  children
ranging from 20 years old to 5 years old. She has worked for a federal contractor since
2006 and has held a security clearance since then. (Tr. 33-37; GE 1)
Applicant testified that her family has a history of mental health issues. Due to the
stigma associated with mental illness in the past, she was raised by her family to deny
the issues if a problem existed because it was embarrassing and brought shame on the
family.  Applicant  testified  that  she  was  in  denial  for  years  about  her  mental  health
problems. (Tr. 38-39)
Applicant  testified  that  for  many  years  she  was  misdiagnosed  with  post-partum
depression.  She  believed  she  never was  properly  treated  for her more  serious mental
health issues because of the misdiagnosis and her state of denial. (Tr. 38-39)
Applicant  testified  that  she  began  consuming  alcohol  in  about  2002.  She  never
consumed alcohol while she was pregnant or breast feeding. In 2004, she was working
as  a  bartender  and  the  management  encouraged  the  bartenders to  let  customers buy
them drinks to increase business. She said she would often get drunk while working at
the bar. After she married in 2006, she moved to a new state with her husband, and she
did not consume alcohol because she was at home and did not socialize. Gradually she
made friends and became more social. She testified that she never felt like she needed
or craved alcohol but when she did drink,  she had no control and could not stop. She
found  her  body  reacted  differently  when  she  consumed  alcohol  than  it  does  for  other
people, in that instead of acting as a depressant, it energized her. (Tr. 45-49)
Applicant  testified  that  after  she  remarried,  she  and  her  husband  both  drank
alcohol, and it would fuel fights between them. In 2016, while talking on the phone with a
friend, she consumed a 750 ml bottle of rum. Her husband was in bed and got up and
confronted her. She was belligerent. She blacked out and does not recall what happened
but was told she was combatant with her husband and her father who had been contacted
and came to their house. (Tr. 39-41)
Applicant  was  taken  to  CC,  a  hospital,  and  was  admitted  to  the  behavioral  unit
where  she  stayed  for  three  days.  She  described  the  facility  as  horrible,  and  she  was
terrified while there. She was placed in a room with a woman who talked to herself and
was told that the woman was aggressive. Applicant testified she met with a psychiatrist
for five minutes. There was concern that because there were scratches on her wrists that
she had made a suicide attempt. The scratches were superficial. This was also fueled by
the  fact  that  her  husband  could  not  find  his  medication,  and  it  was  believed  she  had
consumed it. She denied she attempted to commit suicide. All of her toxicology tests were
negative,  and  her  husband  eventually  found  his  medication,  refuting  that  she  made  a
suicide attempt. (Tr. 39-41, 47; GE 3)
Applicant testified  that  her experience  with  the  medical personnel raised  concerns
about  the   quality  of  the   facility.  She   said   she   met  with   a  nurse  practitioner who   vaped
during  her  entire  interview. She  was  prescribed  Zoloft and  the  nurse  believed  because
Applicant had  a  busy  life  with  five  children  at  the  time  that  she  was  suffering  from  post-
partum   depression. Applicant   testified  that   she   believed   she   did   have   depression  after
her child  was  born,  but  it was  not  to  the  level of post-partum.  She also candidly  admitted
that she  was in denial on  acknowledging  she  had  other serious mental health  issues. She
met   with   a   psychiatrist  and   was  diagnosed   with   adjustment  disorder,  with   depressed
mood,  and  alcohol intoxication  delirium, with  mild  use  disorder. After  her release  from  the
unit,  she  felt good  but continued  to  consume  alcohol. She  did not believe  at that time  that
she  had  a  problem  with  alcohol. She  attributed  her diagnoses to  others who  believed  that
she   had   swallowed   pills,  despite   evidence   to   the   contrary. Applicant  continued   to   take
Zoloft which helped her.  (Tr 47-51)
Applicant became pregnant in 2017 and stopped drinking. She also discontinued
taking the Zoloft upon her obstetrician’s  recommendation. She did not consult with any
other doctors about the consequences of stopping Zoloft. Her son was born in July 2018
and Applicant nursed him until February 2019. She experienced stress due to the baby
having  some  special  medical  needs,  some  financial  issues,  and  she  was  not  on  any
medication. When she stopped breast-feeding, she started to drink alcohol again.  She
also explained after the lockdown due to the pandemic the children were all home, and it
was also more stressful. (Tr. 42-44, 57-60)
Applicant testified  that once  she  starts to  drink alcohol,  she  does not  have  control.
She   becomes  belligerent  and   argumentative.  From   February  2019   to   April  2020,   she
consumed  alcohol sporadically but when  she  did,  it was to  intoxication. Her husband  tried
to  limit her to  three  drinks,  but  she  said  she  threw the  restriction  back at  him because  he
consumed   alcohol  and   said  that  he   had   the   problem   with   alcohol  and   not  her.  She
admitted they were  both  in  denial regarding  their  problems  with  alcohol.  (Tr. 44-46, 60-
61)
In April 2020, Applicant and her family were celebrating her daughter’s  birthday.
Applicant was consuming alcohol. She was upset at her husband for spending money for
something  she  did  not  approve  of.  Later  in  the  evening,  she  and  her  husband  were
arguing. Applicant testified she blacked out and does not remember what happened. She
only knows what was told to her. She called the police and accused her husband of hitting
her  son,  which  was  not  true.  The  police  came,  and  her  husband  went  to  his mother’s
house. Her mother stayed with her and the children. Applicant went to take a shower and
her mother-in-law came over to the house to retrieve Applicant’s husband’s medication.
Because Applicant had been in the bathroom for a long time and was unresponsive, her
son  unlocked  the  door.  Applicant  was  on  the  floor  and  was  blue.  An  ambulance  was
called, and she was taken to the hospital and intubated. It was determined that she had
taken her husband’s entire prescription of Xanax and some hydrocodone that had been
prescribed to her after an operation. (Tr. 51, 61-64)
Applicant testified she woke up in the hospital a few days later unaware of what
had transpired or how long she had been in the hospital. She was then transferred to the
behavior wing at RL, a hospital. She met with a psychiatrist and a therapist for the three
days she was there. She discussed with the psychiatrist her family history and what had
happened. He explained to her that her condition was not temporary and would not go
away. He explained that they needed to fix her brain, and she would be on medication for
the rest of her life. He specifically said she was not suffering from post-partum depression.
Instead, he diagnosed her with Major Depressive Disorder. She was put back on Zoloft,
which has provided good results. She said she was sad and angry because she blamed
her family for teaching her to deny mental health issues and leave them untreated. She
explained that her grandmother had committed suicide and she later learned her aunt has
the same diagnoses as her. (Tr. 64-68, 89-90; GE 4; AE A, B, N)
Applicant recognizes that her use of alcohol exacerbated her other mental health
issues.  She  testified  that  her  current  diagnosis  is  Major  Depressive  Disorder  severe
without psychotic episodes and she is also being treated for Alcohol Use Disorder. The
psychiatrist at RL referred Applicant to her primary care doctor for medicine management
of her Zoloft dosage. Since April 2020, Applicant’s dosage has increased from 50mg to
100mg  and  in  late  2022  it  was  increased  again  to  150mg  when  Applicant  was
experiencing stress due to her security clearance being under review. The increases were
all under the care of her doctor. (Tr. 69-71, 91-92, 95-96; GE 4; AE B, N)
While at RL, Applicant also met with a psychologist and was to meet with her for a
year. She did not have a good rapport with her. She participated in talk therapy and initially
they met twice a week, then once a week, then bi-weekly. Applicant discontinued seeing
the psychologist because she did not find it helpful, and they would often sit together and
not talk. She stopped seeing the psychologist around June or July 2020. She continued
to take her medicine as prescribed. She admitted that she was not happy with the care
she  had  initially  received  at  CC  where  the  psychologist  was  affiliated  because  she
believed they mishandled her care. She tried to meet again with the psychiatrist from RL
who  diagnosed  her,  but  he  had  left  the  hospital’s  employment  and  she  was  unable  to
arrange an appointment. (Tr. 68-69, 71-74, 77, 92-94; GE 3, 4; AE A, B, N)
Before  being  discharged  from  RL,  Applicant  worked  on  a  recovery plan  with  the
psychiatrist and  his nurse.  Her family participated  in the  discussions regarding  support
through  a  virtual meeting  to  ensure everyone  was aware  of it. Almost immediately after
Applicant’s  discharge  from  RL, she  began  participating  in  “In  the  Room.” This is an  online
treatment program  that offers Alcoholics  Anonymous (AA) meetings  and  other activities
that  are always available. She  learned  about this group  while  at  RL.  Her recovery was
happening   during   the   pandemic,   so   the   use   of  online   groups  was   the   norm.  Also,   it
allowed  her flexibility to  seek a  meeting  when  it met her schedule as there are meetings
offered   every  two   hours.  The   AA   program   required   that  she   attend   meetings  for  90
consecutive   days.  AA   offered   meetings,   communicating   with   others,  reflections,   and
sponsors. There is also  a  subdivision  at  “In  the  Room”  that offers a  community for those
with  more than  one  diagnosis. The  group  is called  Dual Diagnoses. Applicant feels very
comfortable  participating  in  this community  because  it  is not just about  being addicted  to
alcohol   but also   addresses  other   mental health   diagnoses.   Applicant   works   on   the   12-
steps of AA  and  has a  sponsor. When  she  first started,  she  participated  more often  in the
group,  but the  frequency has been  reduced  now that her mental health  and  alcohol issues
are  under  control.  She   continues  to   participate   in   the   program.   She   continues  to   be
medication  compliant,  reads the  daily reflections from  the  group  and  posts her gratitudes
weekly. (Tr. 74-83, 94, 98; AE M)
Applicant  testified that she  has a robust support group. Her husband supports  her
sobriety.  After Applicant’s hospitalization, he  was in denial about his alcohol problem,  but
in about  June  2020,  he  recognized  that  he  too  is an  alcoholic. They support each  other.
There is no  alcohol in  the  house. Both  testified  that Applicant has  not consumed  alcohol
since   the   April 2020   incident  and  hospitalization.  Applicant’s  family  and   her   husband’s
family  live   close   by   and   are there   to   support   her. She   has   a   church   community and   is
involved  as a  girl scout  leader  with  her daughters. She  recognizes  triggers that  may raise
concerns  and  addresses them  immediately. Her husband  is  also  vigilant in  monitoring  her
moods and stresses. Although she is vigilant about taking her medication, he is mindful
of ensuring she does also. (Tr. 85-86)
Due to the stress associated with the retention of her security clearance, Applicant
went to see a therapist in August 2022 to help her. She participated in cognitive therapy
with him. He gave her the same diagnoses as noted above. He is a licensed clinical social
worker. She saw him until January 2023. (Tr. 84-85)
Applicant  reported  her  2016  hospitalization  incident  to  her  employer’s  facility
security  officer (FSO) but  was told  because it  was  due to post-partum depression  she
was not required to do so. She reported her April 2020 incident to her FSO. She admitted
that when she completed her security clearance application in March 2020, she did not
disclose alcohol or mental health issues because she was in denial. (Tr. 99-100; GE 2)
Applicant’s coworker for the past 13 years and friend testified on her behalf. She
is aware  of  Applicant’s mental health  hospitalizations and  addiction  to  alcohol. She  did
not  observe  Applicant  drink  alcohol  when  they  were  at  a  company  happy  hour.  She
described  Applicant  as  reliable,  trustworthy,  dependable,  always  willing  to  help,  and  a
vital member of the team. (Tr. 105-109)
Applicant’s  sister-in-law  testified.  She  was  aware  that  in  the  past  Applicant  was
diagnosed  with  post-partum  depression.  Since  April  2020  she  has  never  observed
Applicant consume alcohol. She is available, as is her whole family that lives very close,
to  provide  any  support  Applicant  may  need.  She  has  noticed  a  change  in  Applicant’s
behavior  since  she  has  abstained  from  alcohol  consumption.  Applicant  is  calm  and
organized.  She  describes  Applicant  as  a  loving  mother,  daughter,  and  aunt.  She  has
found new hobbies and is very involved in girl scouts with her daughters, is a homeroom
parent, gardens, and is enrolled in college. (Tr. 109-115)
Applicant’s  husband  testified  and  acknowledged  that  since  both  have  stopped
consuming  alcohol,  their  marriage  and  life  has  improved.  He  described  himself  as  a
recovering alcoholic. He is aware that his wife recognizes her triggers that may impact
her mental health. He believes the last alcohol episode in April 2020, where she almost
died, scared her about what could have happened. She is managing her mental health
through medication. She has constant family support, and they support each other. (Tr.
115-122)
Applicant provided her excellent performance evaluations and performance goals
from her employer. She is committed to her sobriety and mental health. She intends to
remain  vigilant  in  taking  her  prescribed  medication  and  recognizing  triggers  that  may
impact  her  mental  health.  She  admits  she  is  a  recovering  alcoholic.  She  has  not
consumed alcohol since April 2020 and does not intend to ever again. She understands
that she will remain on medication for her mental health for the rest of her life. (AE C, D,
E, F, G, H, I, J)
