In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  1.a  and  2.a.  He
denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 2.b – 2.e. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of
fact. (Item 2)
Applicant is 35 years old. Since January 2020, he has been employed by a defense
contractor  and  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance.  He  served  on  active  duty  with  the
United  States  Army  from  January  2007  to  August  2011,  separating  with  an  honorable
discharge. His highest level of education is a general equivalency degree (GED). He is
not married but currently lives with a cohabitant. They have a three-year-old child.  (Item
3)
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  smoked  marijuana  (THC)  in
November  or  December  2019  and  tested  positive  for  THC  in  a  work-related  urinalysis
test.  (SOR  ¶  1.a:  Item  4;  Item  6)  Under  Guideline  E,  Personal  Conduct,  it  is  alleged
Applicant was fired by his employer in 2019 after his positive urinalysis test. (SOR ¶ 2.a:
Item 4; Item 6) Several falsifications are also alleged under Guideline E, to include:
SOR  ¶   2.b:   Applicant  falsified  material  facts  in  response  to  DOD  CAF
Interrogatories, dated November 9, 2021, in response to question 8, “Have you ever failed
a  scheduled  or  random  drug  test?”  Applicant  answered  “No.”  He  failed  to  mention  his
2019 urinalysis test which was positive for THC. (Item 4; Item 5 at 5; Item 6)
SOR ¶  2.c:
Applicant falsified his January 31, 2020 SCA in response to Section
13A  - Employee  Activities,  concerning  his  employment  with  Employer  A,  “for  this
employment, have any of the following happened to you in the last seven (7) years? Fired;
Quit after being told you would be fired; Left by mutual agreement following charges or
allegations of misconduct; [or] Left by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory
performance?” Applicant answered, “No.”  He failed to disclose he was fired by Employer
A  because  of  his  positive  urinalysis  in  2019.  He  listed  on  the  SCA  that  his  reason  for
leaving his employment with Employer A was “baby on the way.” (Item 3 at 14-15; Item 4
at 7-8)
SOR ¶  2.d:
Applicant falsified his January 31, 2020 SCA in response to Section
23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity. “In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally
used any drugs or controlled substances?” Applicant answered “No.” He failed to disclose
his 2019 marijuana use. (Item 3 at 31; Item 4)
SOR    ¶   2.e:  Despite  receiving  a  citation  for  driving  with  no  evidence  of  current
registration in March 2019, Applicant continued to drive the same vehicle without a valid
registration. He received another citation for the same offense in November 2019. He was
found guilty of both offenses. He did not pay the $867 fine and civil assessment that was
imposed for the first offense, which resulted in the court sending the debt to a collection
agency  in  June  2021. (Items  7  –  8)  He  admits  that  he  drove  his  car  without  a  current
registration. He continued to drive  the car after receiving a citation because it was the
only way he could get to work. Although he claims he paid the fines and civil assessment,
he did not provide proof that it was paid. (Item 6 at 9-11) In his Response to the SOR,
Applicant denied this allegation, stating that he was not aware of this issue. (Item 2)
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  claims  he  misunderstood  the  questions
regarding  SOR  ¶¶  2.b  –  2.d.  In  other  words,  he  did  not  intentionally  withhold  any
information on his security clearance application. On April 30, 2020, he was interviewed
by  an  investigator  in  conjunction  with  his  security  clearance  background  investigation.
The  investigator  questioned  him  about  his  employment  with  Employer  A,  specifically
whether he ever received a written warning, been officially reprimanded, suspended or
disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, or terminated. Applicant replied, “No.”  The
investigator confronted him with information that Employer A fired him because he failed
a  post-accident drug  screen. Once confronted,  Applicant  admitted to  having a  positive
drug test for marijuana in November or December 2019. He said Employer A allowed him
to resign in lieu of being terminated. He admitted to using marijuana on one occasion to
treat back pain after he hurt his back at work. Employer A later sent him to an urgent care
clinic  to  have  his  back  checked  because  it  was  a  work-related  injury.  Applicant  was
required to provide a urine sample as part of the treatment. The sample tested positive
for marijuana. (Item 6 at 7-8)
A  few  days  later,  Applicant’s  supervisor  informed  him  that  he  violated  the  drug
policy and would be terminated. He told his supervisor that he would resign because he
needed a better paying job. He believed his employment record with Company A would
indicate he resigned. He did not list his termination on the January 2020  SCA because
he did not believe he was terminated. He claims he only used marijuana on one occasion.
He has not used marijuana since. He is aware that he is not allowed to use marijuana or
other drugs while holding a security clearance. (Item 6 at 8)
The  investigator  who  interviewed  Applicant  prepared  an  unsworn  summary  of
Applicant’s Personal Subject Interview. On September 18, 2022, Applicant certified that
the unsworn summary of his April 30, 2020 personal subject interview was accurate in
response to DOHA interrogatories. (Item 6) He indicated:
I swear (or affirm)  that the  statements on  this form, and  any attachments to
it, are true, complete, and  correct to  the  best or my knowledge  and  belief
and  are  made  in  good  faith. I understand  that a  knowing  and  willful false
statement  on   this  form   or  attachments  can   be   punished   by  fine   or
imprisonment or both.
In response to the same interrogatory, he answered, “Yes,” to question (1) “Does
the  report  accurately  reflect  the  information  that  you  provided  during  your  interview?”
(Item  6  at  2,  17-18)  I  find  SOR  ¶  2.b  for  Applicant.  While  Applicant  denied  failing  “a
scheduled or random drug test” in response question 8 on interrogatories sent to him by
the  Department  of  Defense  on  November  9,  2021,  he  previously  admitted  to  testing
positive  for  marijuana  during  a  work-related  urinalysis  during  his  personal  subject
interview  on  April  30,  2020.  The  Government  was  on  notice  that  Applicant  failed  a
urinalysis test. His incorrect answer to question 8 on the November 2021 Interrogatory
was  not  material because  he  admitted  his  failed  urinalysis  during  his  personal  subject
interview after being confronted by the background investigator.
