After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  57  years  old.  He  is  a  naturalized  citizen  of  the  United  States  who
entered  this  country  in  November  1987.  He  had  an  alien  registration  number  but  was
unable to locate it. He was married in January 1988 and divorced in September 2020. He
has two adult children. He has lived with a cohabitant since March 2020. Since January
2011, he has worked for a defense contractor. This is apparently his first application for
a security clearance. (Items 3 and 4.)
The SOR alleged six delinquent accounts, the largest being a home mortgage with
a past-due amount of $55,335 and a total balance of $355,323. The most recent credit
report (March 29, 2023) noted “Foreclosure Process Started.”  (SOR ¶ 1.a; Item 5.) The
home  mortgage  account is reported  as “Joint.” (Items 5  through  7.) The remaining five
accounts  are  two  medical  accounts  totaling  $1,211  and  three  cable  accounts  totaling
$860.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.f.)  Applicant  admitted  the  home  mortgage  account,  one  medical
account,  and  one  cable  account.  (Answer  ¶¶ 1.a,  1.b  ,  and  1.e.)  He  denied  two  cable
accounts and one medical account. (Answer ¶¶ 1.b,1.c, and 1.d.) All SOR allegations are
supported  by  the  credit  reports.  (Items  5  through  7.)  Applicant  did  not  provide  any
documents supporting his denials.  The SOR debts went into collections from February
2017 to September 2021. (Item 6.)
In his personal subject interview (PSI), Applicant explained why he did not list his
certificate of naturalization in his SCA: “[He has] no access to the certificate because it’s
in ex-wife’s residence; subject has not got the certificate due to their contentious divorce.
[He] thinks the certificate of naturalization was issued in September 2000 . . . .” (Item 4.)
In his PSI, Applicant addressed the delinquent mortgage as follows:
[He] advised that his ex-wife [is] in-charge of the mortgage since she lives
in the home. Their divorce was granted in September 2020 . . . The divorce
settlement requests sale of the property. [He] does not know the reason for
non-payments  of  approximate  $2,300  per  month.  [His]  divorce  lawyer
advised not to  contact ex-wife  since  it was a contentious divorce. .  .  The
plan is the sale of the home will pay off mortgage debt. (Item 4.)
The Law and Policies
It is well established that no one  has a right to a security clearance. As the
Supreme Court held, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security
determinations should  err, if they must,  on  the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability  for  a   security  clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must   consider   the   adjudicative   guidelines  guidelines   are   flexible
rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the  whole-
person   concept.   An   administrative  judge   must  consider  all   available  and   reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of  the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An
individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security  concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following conditions are applicable in this case:
(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit reports. AG ¶¶  19(a) and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. Having reviewed all of the mitigating condition under AG ¶ 20,
I find the following potentially applicable:
(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,   trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment; and
(b)  the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond
the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business  downturn,
unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation, clear
victimization by  predatory lending practices, or identity  theft),  and  the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.
I  have  considered  condition  AG  ¶  20(a).  Applicant’s  SOR  debts  went  into
collections between 2017 and 2021. That is not that long ago. The debts are numerous
and remain in default today. His debts are not mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a).
I  have  considered  condition  AG  ¶  20(b).  Applicant  was  divorced  in  September
2020, after 12 years of marriage and having two children, now adults. AG ¶ 20(b) recites
“divorce”  as  a  condition  “largely  beyond”  an  applicant’s  control.  That  is  the  condition
Applicant  has  confronted.  The  first  element  of  that  mitigating  condition  is,  therefore,
satisfied.
The second element of AG ¶ 20(b) is that an applicant act “responsibly” under the
adverse circumstances he faced. Applicant’s divorce was sufficiently acrimonious that he
was unable to retrieve his naturalization certificate from the marital home, where his ex-
wife now resides. And his divorce lawyer counseled that Applicant not contact his ex-wife
about the mortgage, because the divorce was so contentious. The only responsible option
left to Applicant was to allow the home to go through foreclosure, a process the record
shows was occurring in March of this year. I find that SOR ¶ 1.a has been mitigated under
AG ¶ 20(b).
The other five SOR debts total $2,071. The magnitude of that amount does  not
raise national security concerns. I find in favor of Applicant on SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.f.
The Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and its factors). In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant  leaves  me  with  no  questions  about  his  eligibility  and  suitability  for  a
security clearance. For these reasons, I conclude that Applicant has mitigated the security
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  1.f:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented,  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
