Applicant is 35 years old.  She has a Bachelor’s degree in Ceramic Art.  She is
employed by a defense contractor as a  Research Project Manager.  She is seeking to
obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled  substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  has  an  extensive  history  of  illegal  drug  use  beginning  in  high  school,
involving  marijuana,  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  (psilocybin),  ecstasy,  and  cocaine.
Applicant has worked in the defense industry since 2010.  She was hired by her current
employer in November 2017, as an Engineer, Level 1, and has moved up quickly to her
current position.  She is applying for a security clearance for the first time.
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  high  school  in  October  2003  with  varying
frequency.  Her use of marijuana continued through college and afterwards until about
2014.  For the most part,  from 2014 to 2017,  Applicant stopped using all illegal drugs,
including  marijuana.  From  2017  to  January  2021,  she  made  new  friends  and  started
using marijuana again, about once a month.  She explained that she would occasionally
hit someone’s vape pen during a social event or if it were offered to her.  (Tr. pp. 41-42.)
She  ate  edibles  twice,  but  found  them  to  be  too  strong.  She  enjoyed  marijuana  as  it
helped her relax and helped her sleep.  (Tr. p. 23.)  Applicant has not used marijuana
since about January 2021.
Applicant began using ecstasy in May 2004 while in high school.  That summer
she  used  it  twice  a  month  with  her  friends  until  about  mid-August  2004.  She  did  use
ecstasy  again  until  2008,  and  continued  to  use  it  with  varying  frequency  until  about
October 2020.  (Tr. p. 29.)
Applicant used  cocaine  one time  in  high  school in  May 2004.  She  did not  use  it
again  until about  2018/2019.  She  stated  that  she  used  it about 15  times between  2018
and   2020/2021.     (Tr.  p.  23.)     She   did   not  particularly  like   it,   and   so   she   did   not  use   it
again  until  recently.   She  stated  that  she  used  it  only  on  the  weekends when  she  knew  it
would not  impact her job.  (Tr.  p.  25.)   She  has a  friend  that  she  would use  cocaine  with,
and when  her friend  moved,  she  made  a  conscious decision  to  stop  using  cocaine.   (Tr.
p. 26.)   Applicant last used cocaine in January 2021.
Applicant  has  used  psilocybin  mushrooms  a  total  of  about  eight  times,  three
times from  May 2004 to 2010; and five times between 2015 to  May 2022.  (Tr. p. 33.)
She  has  also  used  LSD  on  three  occasions,  twice  in  college,  and  once  in  May  2020.
(Tr. p. 33-34.)  She does not want to use mushrooms again because they take her out
of control.  Applicant stated that she normally did not have to pay for her illegal drugs.
Often her friends would provide them for her.  (Tr. pp. 31-32.)
During her interview with OPM, Applicant indicated that she could potentially use
mushrooms  in  the  future.  She  stated  that  her  opinions  on  the  matter  have  changed.
She  stated  that  her  two  years  of  sobriety  have  made  her  feel  the  most  balanced  and
clear  that  she  has  felt  for  some  time.  She  enjoys  this  lifestyle.  Her  priorities  have
changed.  She stated that she is now more focused on her career and building a future
for herself.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
From  about  2014  to  2017  Applicant  tapered  off  her marijuana  use  and  was  not
using illegal drugs of any sort.  (Tr. p. 34.)  She explained that when she moved from
State A to State B at the end of 2017, she was  alone and had  no friends.  She made
new friends and slowly accumulated people close to her who used illegal drugs.
Applicant  stated  that  she  was  never  addicted  to  any  hard  drugs.  She  is  now
trying to live a cleaner lifestyle.  She stated that she is in a place of sobriety from illegal
substances, accomplishing this on her own, and has even stopped smoking cigarettes.
She  has  friends  who  casually  participate  in  these  substances,  but  their  use  does  not
impact  her  decisions.  Her  motivation  for  curtailing  her  illegal  drug  use  was  not
prompted  by  her  desire  for  a  security  clearance.  She  stated  that  she  did  not  like  the
recovery process which took several days after using drugs, and she did not feel good
during  that  time.  (Tr.  p.  38.)  She  also  currently  has  a  boyfriend  who  she  has  been
dating  since  May  2022.  He  has  a  Top  Secret  clearance.  They  spend  lots  of  time
together and they do not do drugs.  (Tr. p. 43.)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  best  friend,  who  has  known  her  for  at  least  ten  years,
attests  to  her  good  character,  hard-working  nature,  and  commitment  to  values.  She
recognizes  Applicant  as  an  honest,  intelligent,  reliable,  trustworthy  individual.  She
knows that Applicant has partaken in illegal substances, but no longer feels that these
experiences  serve  her  and  her  growth,  and  has  made  the  commitment  to  a  drug-free
lifestyle.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
