In  her  May  2022  SOR  Answer  (Answer  #2),  Applicant  denied  all  of  the  SOR
allegations, with explanations. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and
evidence submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 37 years old. She is not married and has no children. She has been
steadily  employed  in  her  field  of  expertise  since  shortly  after  obtaining  her  bachelor’s
degree in 2008. She has held a security clearance since about 2010 and has worked for
her  current  employer  since  2015.  She  currently  works  as  a  business  analyst.  (GX  1;
GX 3; Tr. 19, 65)
In about 2014, Applicant began “binge drinking” alcohol due to stress and anxiety
from  an  emotionally  abusive  relationship  with  her  boyfriend.  At  his  urging,  she  sought
out  counseling  and  saw  Ms.  V.S.,  a  licensed  clinical  professional  counselor  (LCPC),
from about April 2014 through February 2015. (GX 3; GX 5)
In February 2015, Applicant changed medical providers and underwent an initial
evaluation  with  Dr.  J.R.,  a  psychiatrist.  She  was  diagnosed  with  generalized  anxiety
disorder,  major  depressive  disorder  and  alcohol  dependence.  A  diagnosis  of  bipolar
disorder was ruled out. Dr. J.R. noted that Applicant was also an addictive shopper and
was  struggling  with  impulse  buying.  Applicant  later  claimed  she  only  treated  with
Dr. J.R. for generalized anxiety disorder and denied receiving treatment for alcohol use.
(See discussion below). Applicant’s mental health-related diagnoses and treatment are
not alleged in the SOR. (GX 2; Tr. 17, 32)
In  early  March  2015, Applicant  was  prescribed  Celexa  and  Lamictal to  stabilize
her mood. Later that month, she was prescribed naltrexone to curb her alcohol cravings.
In  May  2015,  Dr.  J.R.  noted  that  Applicant  had  responded  well  to  medication  as  her
impulsive  behavior  decreased  and  she  was  drinking  less  alcohol.  Amongst  several
recommendations, she was to continue naltrexone for her alcohol dependency. (GX 2)
Dr.  J.R.  saw  Applicant  again  in  September  2015  and  noted  she  was  less
impulsive  and  was  drinking  moderately.  In  December  2015,  Applicant  saw  another
counselor  within  Dr.  J.R.’s  practice  and  talked  about  her  “struggles  with  compulsive
shopping  and  alcohol  abuse.”  The  counselor  recommended  that  she  continue  regular
therapy to focus on depression and anxiety management, improving her self-esteem as
well  as  managing  her alcohol  consumption  and  other  compulsive  behaviors.  Applicant
did not return for treatment. (GX 2)
In her July 2016 SCA, Applicant disclosed that she had received counseling and
mental health treatment with Ms. V.S. and Dr. J.R. However, she did not state that any
of  this treatment was alcohol related.  Further, under Section 24  –  Use  of Alcohol,  she
denied that she ever voluntarily sought counseling or treatment due to her alcohol use.
(GX 1)
During  her  interview  with  a  security  clearance  background  investigator  in
February  2018,  Applicant  described  her  earlier  psychological  counseling  but  “failed  to
note  that  this  counseling  was  due  to  [her]  voluntary  alcohol  treatment.”  Applicant
indicated she was “ashamed  to list her treatment for alcohol use.” She then described
her  period  of  “binge  drinking”  from  about  2014  through  2016.  She  claimed  she  had
successfully  completed  counseling  and  volunteered  that  she  continued  to  consume
alcohol. (GX 3)
Applicant  did  not  participate  in  any  mental  health  treatment  from  2016  through
2018. She separated from her boyfriend in 2017. However, in 2019 she wanted to return
to  dating  and  sought  out  additional  mental  health  treatment  to  address  her  anxiety
issues surrounding relationships. (Tr. 58-59)
In  June  2019,  Applicant  underwent  a  psychiatric  evaluation  with  Ms.  K.R.,  a
physician assistant, certified (PA-C). She described being in an abusive relationship in
2014 through 2015 and said she had only gone to therapy because of her ex-boyfriend.
She  stated  she  had  previously  been  diagnosed  with  acute  bipolar  disorder  and  had
been  prescribed  Lexapro  and  naltrexone  but  “rarely  took  them  and  did  not  take  them
seriously.”  She  reported  she  was  typically  drinking  one  alcoholic  beverage  a  day.
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  obsessive  compulsive  disorder,  major  depressive
disorder and an unspecified anxiety disorder. Diagnoses of alcohol abuse disorder and
bipolar disorder were ruled out and she was prescribed Prozac. (AX E)
In  September  2019,  Applicant  returned  to  Ms.  K.R.  with  complaints  of  high
anxiety  related  to  her  work  and  personal  issues.  There  was  no  indication  of  alcohol-
related issues or treatment from these records. Applicant was again prescribed Prozac
and a course of mental health treatment was established. She remained compliant with
her  provider’s  recommendations  and,  over  the  next  two  years,  her  anxiety  and
depression decreased. (AX C-E)
In  January  2020,  Applicant  responded  to  Government  interrogatories  and
confirmed  that  she  had  been  diagnosed  with  alcohol  dependency  in  about  2015  and
had been prescribed medication to assist with her alcohol cravings. She also confirmed
she discontinued treatment in 2016 against the advice of her medical provider. (GX 3)
In  August  2021,  following  her  receipt  of  the  initial  SOR,  Applicant  informed
Ms. K.R.  that  her  security  application  had  been  revoked  because  she  had  previously
seen a psychiatrist in 2015 and been diagnosed with alcohol abuse. Applicant reported
that she was currently drinking one to two glasses of wine four to five nights per week
and  would  occasionally  drink  a  max  of  three  drinks  on  the  weekend  during  social
outings.  Ms.  K.R.’s  assessment  and  treatment  of  Applicant  remained  unchanged  and
unrelated to Applicant’s alcohol consumption. (AX C-E)
Also  in  August  2021,  at  the  direction  of  her  attorney,  Applicant  underwent  an
alcohol use evaluation with Ms. K.B., a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW). She took
several  tests  and  participated  in  an  interview  during  this  evaluation.  In  describing  her
treatment history to Ms. K.B., Applicant claimed she never sought services associated
with alcohol while treating with Dr. J.R. and was “adamant” that neither Dr. J.R. nor any
therapist in that office ever told her that she had a drinking problem or needed treatment
for alcohol. Applicant claimed in the evaluation that Dr. J.R.’s prescription for naltrexone
was to curb her desire to shop online and that she only took one or two pills but “did not
like the side effects and ceased taking them.” (AX F)
With  regard  to  her  alcohol  consumption  at  the  time  of  the  evaluation,  Applicant
informed Ms. K.B. that she never had any alcohol-related incidents within or outside of
work. She had reduced her alcohol consumption from two to four glasses of wine, four
to  five  times  per  week  to  one  to  two  glasses  of  wine,  two  to  three  times  per  week.
Ms. K.B.  concluded  that  Applicant  did  not  have  an  alcohol  use  disorder  and  that  no
alcohol treatment was warranted. (AX F)
Shortly after the evaluation,  Applicant submitted her August 2021 SOR Answer.
(Answer # 1) In discussing the SOR allegations, she acknowledged that she had been
diagnosed, in part, with alcohol dependency and alcohol use disorder, but claimed that
these  were  overdiagnoses,  as  she  was  only  seen  a  few  times  by  Dr.  J.R.  and  had
discontinued her treatment. Applicant claimed that she continued to consume alcohol at
a  level  that  her  psychiatrist  and  therapist  believed  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for alcohol
use disorder. (GX 4)
In December 2021, Applicant underwent a psychological evaluation with Dr. C.B.,
Ph.D.,  at  the  request of  DOD.  During  that  evaluation,  Applicant  stated  that  she  began
drinking  excessively  in  2015  as  a  poor  mechanism  for  relationship  struggles  and  that
her  drinking  was  no  longer  excessive  after  she  separated  from  her boyfriend  in  2017.
(GX 5-6)
With  regard  to  her  alcohol  consumption  at  the  time  of  the  evaluation,  Applicant
informed  Dr.  C.B.  that  she  consumed  one  or  two  glasses  of  wine,  primarily  on  the
weekends. Dr. C.B.’s diagnostic impression was major depressive disorder, recurrent, in
remission;  generalized  anxiety  disorder;  alcohol  use  disorder,  in  remission;  and  a  rule
out of bipolar disorder. (GX 5-6)
In April 2022, Ms. K.R. issued a letter stating that Applicant continued to treat for
major  depressive  disorder,  anxiety  disorder  and  obsessive-compulsive  disorder  and
remained  compliant  with  her  treatment  plan.  In  May  2022,  Dr.  E.T.,  Ph.D.  within  Ms.
K.R.’s  office,  issued  a  similar  letter,  stating  that  Applicant  was  actively  participating  in
treatment,  had  made  significant  progress  in  managing  her  symptoms  and  exhibited
stable  mental  health.  Dr.  E.T.  opined  that  Applicant’s  symptoms  were  not  related  to  a
substance use disorder. (AX C-D)
In her May 2022 SOR Answer (Answer # 2), Applicant denied she ever received
treatment  for  a  condition  related  to  alcohol.  Instead,  she  claimed  to  have  treated  for
anxiety and depression. She further claimed she was unaware she had been diagnosed
with  alcohol  use  disorder  or  alcohol  dependency  “until  well  after  the  fact”  and  the
medication  she  had  been  prescribed  in  2015  was  to  curb  her  shopping  impulses.
Applicant stated that she consumed alcohol responsibly and would continue to discuss
her drinking habits with her  therapist and modify her consumption if needed. Applicant
also  denied  providing  false  information  during  her  alcohol  use  evaluation  in  August
2021.
In May 2023, Applicant was seen by Ms. J.M.R. (LCSW), a new counselor within
her current medical practice group. Ms. J.M.R. summarized that Applicant suffered from
generalized anxiety disorder  that was being managed by coping skills and medication.
Ms. J.M.R. opined that neither Applicant’s condition nor consumption of alcohol had any
impact on her judgment, stability, reliability or trustworthiness. (AX J)
At  her  DOHA  hearing,  Applicant  described  seeing  Dr.  J.R.  in  2015  for  therapy,
but denied being seen for alcohol-use problems. She further denied ever being treated
for  an  alcohol  use  disorder.  Applicant  again  claimed  that  the  medication  Dr.  J.R.
prescribed was to curb her shopping impulses and was unrelated to her use of alcohol.
She further  claimed  she  did  not  know that Dr.  J.R.  had  diagnosed  her with  an alcohol
use disorder until she received the initial SOR. (Tr. 16-18, 28-33, 54-56)
When  Applicant  was  confronted  with  her  January  2020  interrogatory  response
that  reflected  her  awareness  of  her  alcohol-dependency  diagnosis  and  treatment,  she
claimed not to recall filling  out  the questionnaire.  Applicant also  could  not recall  telling
Dr. C.B. about her history of seeking treatment for alcohol abuse. Instead, she stated “I
believe it is not who I am anymore, so I understand that the records say it, but it is not
really that prevalent in my memory right now.” (Tr. 29-32, 39-40)
Applicant described working with several counselors since first seeking treatment
with  her  current  medical  group  in  2019.  She  said  her  treatment  was  for  generalized
anxiety disorder, the management of underlying family and relationship issues, as well
as her overall wellness and mental health. She said her counselors were aware of her
alcohol  consumption,  but  it  was  not  a  concern  to  them  and  she  did  not  receive  any
treatment specific to alcohol use. (Tr. 23-24, 35-38, 61-64)
Applicant stated she has come a long way since the abusive relationship with her
ex-boyfriend  she  experienced  in  2015.  She  said  she  now  maintains  strong  work  and
personal  relationships  and  stated  that  she  does  not  have  an  alcohol-use  problem.
(Tr. 32, 72-74)
Applicant  submitted  multiple  character  letters  from  individuals,  some  of  whom
have  worked  with  her  since  at  least  2013.  They  all  describe  her  as  an  exemplary
employee who consistently exceeded expectations. They further note that she has held
a security clearance with access to classified materials without incident and maintains a
high  degree  of  professionalism,  integrity,  and  dedication.  A  recent  performance
appraisal stated that Applicant had either met or exceeded all expectations. (AX G-I)
