Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, and 1.f. He denied the SOR
allegations in ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c and 1.e. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old. He was married and divorced twice. He has two children
ages 10 and 7 years old from his second marriage. He remarried in 2019. He served in
the military from 2003 to 2011 and was honorably discharged. He has been employed by
his present employer since October 2022.
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in March 2022. In it he
disclosed  that  he  attended  college  from  September  2011  through  July  2015,  and  it
appears he took a semester off during that time. He attended  again from May 2018 to
May 2020 and earned a bachelor’s degree. He began taking classes in December 2021
working towards a master’s degree. (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed in his SCA that  he was unemployed while attending college
and used his savings, educational benefits from his military service, and his Department
of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)  disability  payments  to  support  himself.  He  disclosed  that  he
owned a business and was self-employed from July 2016 through August 2018. He said
he closed the business to pursue his education. (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed two delinquent debts in his SCA. He disclosed a delinquent
debt for a credit card. He stated the amount owed was $5,500 and it was paid in full. He
also disclosed a second credit card debt that he said was to be paid by his ex-wife, but it
remained on his credit report. It is not alleged in the SOR. (Item 3)
Applicant responded to government interrogatories in September 2022. In them,
he was asked to provide information about the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶1.a through 1.e.
He reported that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a, which appears to be a small business loan that
was charged off in the amount of $43,741, was not paid. He indicated he had a payment
plan and was making payments. The amount alleged in the SOR was $1,743, which was
a fee and not the balance owed. In the FORM, Applicant was advised of the accurate
delinquent balance of $43,741. It had not been paid. He explained that his was a joint
loan with his second ex-wife and they were both supposed to pay $300 a month per a
court agreement, until it was paid in full. He said she failed to pay her amount. He did not
provide documentation that he paid his amount or action he took from 2018 to 2023. The
original loan was for $50,000. (Item 4)
In  Applicant’s SOR answer he  stated  that he  had  paid  $1,743  to  the  creditor in ¶
1.a  and  the  debt was  paid in full. This was only the  fee  owed  which  was in addition  to  the
$43,741   balance   owed   on   the   original  $50,000   small   business  loan.   In   his  FORM
response, he  said  this debt was charged  off  in  2018. He failed  to  pay it because  he  lost
his  job,  and   he   notified   the   creditor.  He   did  not   provide   proof  of  his  notification   or
subsequent actions. He  reported  on  his SCA  that he  was  unemployed  from  September
2018  to  February  2021  because  he  was a  student  and  convalescing  from  a  medical issue.
He also disclosed  that  from  July 2016  to  August 2018,  he  and  his second  ex-wife  were
self-employed  as  owners of a  fitness  business that they closed  down to  pursue  higher
education. Presumably the small business loan was used to open this business. He also
said the  pandemic impacted  his employment  and  he  became  a  full-time  student to  allow
him  more job  opportunities.  He said  he  made  payments after the  debt was “written  off.”
He did  not provide  proof of those  payments. He stated  once  he  became  employed,  he
reached  out  to  the  creditor to  make  payment arrangements and  his  account  showed  only
a balance  of $1,743, which he  paid  on  February 7, 2023. He said he  reached  out  again
to  obtain  confirmation  of the  balance  owed  and  the  website  was not providing  accurate
information. It  appears there was an  issue  with  the  website,  and  it did not reflect the  full
balance.  He   said   he   now  has  a   payment   plan   to   pay  $400   a   month   on   the   balance.
Applicant provided  email  correspondence  with  the  creditor from  February 2023  requesting
clarification and  confirmation about the  balance  owed. His next  correspondence  with  the
creditor is in May 2023 where he indicates he made a  payment. He  did not provide proof
of  this  payment.   He   provided   a   document  dated   June   6,  2023,   whereby   the   creditor
agrees  to  accept $400  a  month  to  begin the  same  month  until the  balance  is paid in  full.
(Item  4; AE A, B,  C)
Applicant reported in the interrogatories that the SOR ¶ 1.b debt ($7,220 – credit
card)  was  not  paid  and  he  had  not  made  payments  or  payment  arrangements.  He
explained he was not familiar with the account, believing it had to do with a car loan, which
he was current on. He provided documents to show his car loan is current, but it is not
the same debt. (Item 4)
In  Applicant’s SOR answer, he  denied  the  debt in  SOR  ¶ 1.b stating this was a
vehicle loan that was paid. It is listed on his April 2022 credit bureau report as an individual
credit  card debt that was  opened in December 2016 and  charged off  in  approximately
January 2018. As part of his answer to the SOR, Applicant provided a credit report from
February 2023, which clearly lists the debt as a charged-off credit card. The account is
reported  as  an  individual  account.  In  his  FORM  response,  he  did  not  provide  any
information about the status of this debt. It is unresolved. (Items 2, 4, 5)
Applicant reported in his interrogatories that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c ($5,381) was
not  paid,  he  had  not  made  payments  or  payment  arrangements.  In  his  SOR  answer,
Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c ($5,381). Applicant stated he  disputed the debt
on his credit report. His February 2023 credit report shows the dispute was resolved, and
Applicant disagreed with the resolution. He claimed his accounts with the original creditor
are current. His February 2023 credit report shows he has three accounts with the original
creditor. However, the account alleged, which was with the same creditor, is now owned
by  a  third-party  collector,  and  that  collection  account  is  reflected  as  unpaid  and
delinquent. This debt is reported as an individual account. He did not provide additional
evidence in his FORM response as to its status. It is unresolved. (Items 2, 4, 5)
Applicant reported in his interrogatories that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d ($3,793 – car
loan) was not paid but he had made payment arrangements and was making payments.
He explained he was unaware of the debt and contacted the creditor. At the time of his
interrogatory  response,  he  was  waiting  for  a  response  from  the  creditor.  Applicant
admitted in his SOR answer that he owed the debt in ¶ 1.d ($3,793) to a car company but
said he had been unaware of it. In his SOR answer, he provided a copy of what appears
to  be  a  posting  from  a  credit  card  showing  a  payment  to  the  creditor  on  February 23,
2023, for $350, and one on March 6, 2023, for $1,500. In his FORM response, he said he
made payments towards the debt and continues to do  so. He said he had a remaining
balance of $600. He did not provide documents to corroborate any additional payments,
a payment agreement, or the current balance. (Item 2 page 38; Item 4; AE C)
Applicant reported in his interrogatories that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.e ($3,201) was
not  paid  and  he  did  not  know  what  the  account  was  for.  He  was  going  to  contact  the
creditor.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  the  account.  He  said  he  contacted  the
creditor and had not received a reply. He did not provide corroborating evidence of action
to resolve or dispute the debt. It is unresolved. (Item 4)
Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f, a charged-off credit card account. He said
in his SOR answer that the account was past due when he was deployed, and it was paid
in full. He said he has an account with the creditor that is current and active, and he is
unsure why it is listed as delinquent and unpaid. Applicant’s February 2023 credit report
shows three accounts with the same creditor. All three have different account numbers.
Two are current and one is charged off in the amount of $2,253 but shows the charged-
off account was paid. This account is resolved. (Item 2)
As part of his response to interrogatories, Applicant provided a personal financial
statement.  It  reflects  that  he  has  two  credit  cards,  a  car  loan  (2022  vehicle),  and  a
mortgage that are all current. He does not list any other payments to creditors. He shows
his remaining expendable income at the end of the month is $4,864, which includes his
VA disability payment. His assets include a 2021 vehicle (paid), a four-wheel recreational
vehicle, a canoe, and gym equipment (valued at $6,000). He has approximately $15,000
in savings. It is unknown if his wife is employed. He pays $600 a month in child support.
In his SOR answer, he said his personal financial statement remains the same, except
his VA disability payment has increased and his salary from his employer has increased
slightly. (Item 2, Item 4 page 9)
In his SOR answer, Applicant attributed his financial issues to when he was going
through a divorce and deployments. He said his ex-wife and he shared accounts, and he
thinks some of the accounts may be attributable to her. He said he is financially stable
and pays his bills on time. He said his credit has improved since 2018, and he bought a
house in 2022. He said he does not have delinquent accounts and has not been late in
payments for several years. He claimed he was unaware of the alleged SOR debts until
they were brought to his attention during the security review process.
