Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 43 years old.  He is not married, but resides with his fiancé.  He has
a  Ph.D.  in  Engineering.  He  currently  holds  the  position  of  Senior  Principal  Antenna
Engineer.  A  security  clearance  is  required  in  connection  with  his  employment  with  a
defense contractor.
Applicant was born in 1980, in Tehran, Iran.  He was raised there, and attended
the  University  of  Toosi,  in  Tehran,  where  he  obtained  his  undergraduate  degree.  He
then obtained his Master’s degree in Electrical Engineering at the University of Tehran.
He then came to the U.S. in 2007, and obtained his Doctorate degree at the University
of  Mississippi  in  2011.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2018.  He  considers
himself a dual citizen of Iran and the United States.  (Tr. p. 28.)  He has been working in
the Anteena  Engineering  field  related to  Microwave Engineering  since  he obtained his
Doctorate degree.  Applicant began working for his current employer in April 2020.  He
has never held a security clearance before.
Applicant  lives  with  his  fiancé  who  is  also  from  Iran.  He  met  her in  2016,  they
broke up, and then reconnected at the end of 2020.  She is a naturalized U.S. citizen.
She  initially  studied  business  and  worked  for  a  university.  She  is  currently  taken
classes to become a Radiology Technician.  (Tr. p. 30.)  Her parents live in Iran.  They
have received their permanent residency, and they come and visit the U.S. when they
choose.  Her  father  is  retired,  but  he  was  an  Electrical  Engineer  working  for  an  oil
company in Iran.  (Tr. p. 21.)  Applicant stated that he never discusses his work with his
father-in-law or any of his relatives.  (Tr. p 27.)  His fiancé’s mother has never worked
outside the home.
Applicant’s mother, father, sister and brother are citizens of Iran.  His parents and
sister currently live in Iran.  His brother lives in Finland, and is also a citizen of Australia.
(Tr.  p.  22.)  Applicant’s  father  is  a  retired  lawyer.  He  later  became
a  University
professor in Iran.  He retired from teaching about seven or eight years ago.  Applicant’s
mother  was  an  elementary  school  teacher  in  Iran,  before  she  retired  about  20  years
ago.  Applicant’s sister was a Software Engineer in Iran, and she retired a few months
ago.  She  was  working  for  a  Government  contactor.  (Tr.  p.  23.)  Applicant  does  not
know  the  name  of  the  agency  or department  she  worked  for.  Applicant’s  brother  is a
mechanical  engineer  and  currently  works  for  a  university  in  Finland  as  a  researcher.
(Tr. p. 24 and 25.)
Applicant last traveled to Iran a few months ago.  He has traveled in the past to
Iran on about an annual basis and he plans to continue to travel at least that  much in
the future.  (Tr. p. 31.)  He continues to travel using his Iranian passport, and he plans
to continue to maintain his foreign passport for traveling purposes.  He has no plans to
relinquish  his  passport.  (Tr.  p.  27.)  Applicant  also  stated  that  every  time  he  travels
back to Iran to visit his parents or friends, he never mentions anything about his work.
(Tr.p. 33.)
Applicant stated that he recently applied for his parents to move to the U.S. They
recently received their green cards.  He also applied for his sister to move to the U.S.
(Tr. p. 32.)
During his interview with an authorized investigator for the DoD, Applicant stated
that  his  ultimate  allegiance  lies  with  the  United  States.  However,  as  a  dual  citizen  of
Iran and the United States, he has the right to vote in Iranian elections and he plans to
vote in future elections in Iran.  (Government Exhibit 2, p. 3.)
Applicant testified that his work product has been great.  Despite the fact that the
record remained open following the hearing to allow Applicant the opportunity to provide
documentary support, and it was specifically stated that additional information would be
helpful  in  making  a  decision  in  this  case,  Applicant  offered  no  submissions.  No
performance appraisals, and no letters of recommendation from management or others
who  could  attest  to  his  credibility  were  submitted.  Applicant  also  testified  that  his
parents  and  sister  had  already  applied  for  their  green  cards  and  were  waiting  for  a
response.  Applicant had the opportunity to provide documentation to show what steps
his family in Iran have accomplished towards their goal, and he submitted nothing.
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
Islamic Republic of Iran.  Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic with a Shia Islamic
political  system.  The  supreme  leader  is  the  head  of  state  and  holds  constitutional
authority over the judiciary, government-run media, and other key institutions.  The U.S.
Department of State travel advisory for Iran is Level 4:  Do not travel to Iran due to risk
of  kidnapping,  and  the  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  of  U.S.  citizens.  U.S.  citizens
visiting  or  residing  in  Iran  have  been  kidnapped,  arrested,  and  detained  on  spurious
charges.  Iranian  authorities  continue  to  unjustly  detain  and  imprison  U.S.  citizens  on
journalists,
Iranian-Americans,
spurious  charges,  particularly
including  students,
business travelers, and academics, on charges including espionage and posing a threat
to  national  security.  The  U.S.  government  does  not  have  diplomatic  or  consular
relations with Iran and is unable to provide emergency services to U.S. citizens in Iran.
Significant human rights issues included credible reports of unlawful or arbitrary killings
by the government and its agents, most commonly execution for crimes not meeting the
international legal standard of  “most serious crimes” or for crimes committed by juvenile
offenders, as well as after trials without due process; forced disappearance attributed to
the government and its agents; torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment by the
government  and  its  agents;  arbitrary  arrest  or  detention;  harsh  and  life-threatening
prison  conditions;  political  prisoners  and  detainees;  politically  motivated  reprisals
against  individuals  in  another  country;  including  killings  kidnappings,  or  violence,
serious  problems  with  independence  of  the  judiciary,  particularly  the  revolutionary
courts; and unlawful interference with privacy.  (HE-1.)
The  Iranian  government  has  taken  few  steps  to  identify,  investigate,  prosecute,
and  punish  officials  who  committed  human  rights  abuses  or  corruption.
Impunity
remained pervasive throughout all levels of the government and security forces.  (HE-1)
