Applicant is 46 years old, married since July 2006, with two children, a daughter
age  11  and  a  son  age  8.  Applicant  is  a  college  graduate  holding  a  bachelor’s  and  a
master’s degree. Since May 2010, he has been employed by a defense contractor. (Item
3.)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  used  marijuana  with
varying  frequency  from  April  1997  to  about  April  2023;  (In  the  FORM,  Department
Counsel amended the SOR to delete this first allegation in its entirety.) (2) used marijuana
from  March  2019  to  about  April  2023  while  granted  eligibility  to  access  classified  or
sensitive information; (3) intends to continue to use marijuana in the future; (4) purchased
and  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  with  varying  frequency  from  about  July  2021  to
about July 2022; (5) used hallucinogenic mushrooms while granted eligibility to access
classified  or  sensitive  information;  and  (6)  intends  to  continue  to  use  hallucinogenic
mushrooms in the future. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted all Guideline H allegations. (Item
2.)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on a July
19, 2018 public trust application by failing to disclose his marijuana and mushroom use
under circumstances  described above.  (Item 1.)  There  is no July 19,  2018  public trust
application in the record. The only other application in the record is dated April 18, 2019
(the 2019 Application). (Item 4.) He denied this allegation and observed that he disclosed
his marijuana use from May 1998 to April 2019 in his April 18, 2019 application. (Item 2,
citing  Item  4  §  23.)  In his Response,  he  said  that he  did not  have a  copy  of  the  2018
Application and reiterated his denials.
The 2022 Application Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse disclosures. (Item
3 §23.)
Applicant  disclosed  that  he  used  marijuana  from  May  1998  to  September  2022
about 10 to 15 times per month, “always outside of any work activities.” He stated that he
“used marijuana while [he] previously had the Public Trust clearance that [he is] applying
for again.” As to future  use, he  said:  “Used  as an occasional stress reliever. It is more
effective and with fewer side effects than other substances, such as alcohol.”
Applicant disclosed that he used hallucinogenic  mushrooms in July 2021 and July
2022 “3 times (across 3 different days).” As to future use, he said: “I found the experience
very pleasant and it wears off in a couple  of hours, much more easily to manage than
drinking  alcohol.  I  will  likely  do  it  again  in  the  future,  but  would  not  make  it  a  regular
activity.”
The 2019 Application Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse disclosures. (Item
4 §23.)
Applicant disclosed that he used marijuana from May 1998 to April 2019 and said:
“Occasional  marijuana  use,  on  nights  or  weekends,  never  in  conjunction  with  work
activities. Frequency: 5-10 times per year, not consistently. Number of times used: 50.”
As to future use, he said: “Used as an occasional stress reliever. It is more effective and
with  fewer  side  effects  than  other  substances,  such  as  alcohol.”  There  were  no
disclosures of any other drug involvement or substance misuse.
Applicant’s responses to interrogatories and his January 11, 2023 personal subject
interview (PSI) were consistent  with  the responses  in his 2022 and  2019 Applications,
with one notable exception. The interrogatories asked: “When, if ever, did you decide to
stop using illegal substances (list the substance and date of last use)?” He responded: “I
have  not  decided  to  stop  marijuana  or  mushrooms  at  this  time.”  That  response  was
verified  on  April  10,  2023.  In  his  January  11,  2023  PSI,  he  was  asked:  “[If]  he  would
discontinue use of the above drugs [marijuana and mushrooms] if it was required for a
favorable clearance adjudication,  which  he  replied  yes.”  His  PSI  was  also  verified  on
April 10, 2023. (Item 5.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  public  trust  position.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  public  trust  position,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.15, then the applicant is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel. . ..” The applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision.
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Under  this  guideline,  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be  questioned  or  put  into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG
¶ 24 sets forth the concern, as follows:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance means any "controlled substance"  as defined  in 21  U.S.C.§  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance . . .
AG ¶  25(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information
or holding a sensitive position; and
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
abuse,  or  failure  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to  discontinue  such
misuse.
The only potentially applicable mitigating factor here is quoted below:
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment.
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is  unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal, or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to  determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Hallucinogenic mushrooms are Schedule I controlled substances under 21 U.S.C.
.§ 812 (c).
Applicant admitted using marijuana with varying frequency from about May 1998
to September 2022. He admitted to using marijuana from March 2019 to April 2023 while
holding a position of public trust. In 2019, his frequency of use was 5 to 10 times per year.
In 2022, that frequency had increased dramatically to 10 to 15 times per month. He used
mushrooms about three times in July 2021 and July 2022, also while holding a position
of public trust. He was inconsistent about future drug use if his clearance was at stake,
because  he  said  unequivocally  that  he  had  no  plans  to  stop  using  those  controlled
substances.
Facts admitted by an applicant in an application, an answer to an SOR, or in an
interview  require  no  further  proof  from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159  at  4
(App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995).  Applicant’s  years  of  past  use  of  marijuana,  his  recent  use  of
mushrooms,  and  his  intent  to  keep  using  them  trigger  disqualifying  conditions  AG  ¶¶
25(a), (c), (f), and (g).
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). On this record, Applicant began
using marijuana 25  years ago. Therefore, the inception of his use was long ago. Applicant
has,  however,  continued  his  regular,  and  not  infrequent,  use  of  marijuana.  In  fact,  the
frequency  of  his  use  has  increased  significantly  between  2019  and  2022.  And  he  has
added mushrooms to his menu of controlled substances. His history of drug involvement
and substance misuse shows an inability and certainly an unwillingness to comply with
federal  law  and  casts  doubt  on  his  trustworthiness  and  reliability.  Applicant’s  use  of
controlled substances is not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(a).
Guideline E - Personal Conduct
The SOR alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on a July 19, 2018  public
trust application by failing to disclose his marijuana and mushroom use. There is no July
19,  2018  public  trust  application  in  the  record.  Therefore,  the  Government  has  not
established SOR ¶ 2. I find in favor of Applicant on SOR ¶ 2.
Whole-Person Concept
The  record  raises  doubt  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to sensitive information.
As required  by section  E3.1.25  of Enclosure  3  of the  Directive,  I make  the  following
formal findings on the  SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraph  1.a:
Withdrawn
Subparagraphs 1.b-1.f:
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraph  2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to sensitive information.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
