In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the debts alleged in the SOR
(¶¶ 1.a through 1.m), with narrative explanations. His admissions are incorporated into
the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He is married with three adult children. He was employed
in the information technology (IT) field as a systems administrator and security engineer
with several employers from 2012 until August 2019, when he was unemployed for about
three  or  four  months.  He  was  again  employed  from  December  2019  until  September
2021, including a six-month contract with a local city. When that contract ended, he had
surgery, and was then unemployed until June 2022. Since then, he has been employed
with a defense contractor, his sponsor for a clearance. (Item 3)
Applicant  noted  on  his  June  2022  SCA  that  he  had  applied  for  a  clearance
previously for work with other U.S. Government departments, outside of DOD. (Item 3 at
32). He also disclosed numerous delinquent debts and explained that they were due to
multiple employment furloughs in 2019 as well as his 2021 surgery and recovery time.
(Item 3 at 33-40) Applicant also discussed his debts in a September 2022 background
interview. (Item 7) (The record also includes the summary of a background interview from
June 2017, probably connected to an earlier SCA that is not in the record.) (Item 8)
After he  reentered  the  workforce in 2020, Applicant retained  a  credit counselor to
assist with  his debt resolution, but his later unemployment impacted  these  efforts. (Item
7) He  explained  in  his  answer that  he  is willing  to  pay the  original creditors for many  of
his debts  but does  not  want  to  deal  with  collection  agencies  without verification  that the
debts   are  valid.  He   also   asserts   that  debts   that  have   been   “charged   off”  are   therefore
uncollectible  since  they are “satisfied.” (Answer, Item  2) He provided  no  documentation
with his Answer regarding his efforts to address, pay, settle, resolve, or dispute any of the
debts alleged in the SOR.
The   SOR  details  13   delinquent   debts,  totaling   about  $44,000.   The   debts   are
established   by  Applicant’s  admissions  and   by  the   credit  bureau   reports  (CBRs)   in  the
record from  July 2022  and February 2023. (Items 5 and 6). A CBR from June  2016 (Item
6) is also included. The SOR debts are detailed as follows:
SOR ¶¶  1.a  ($623)  and  1.m  ($774) are medical debts that have been placed for
collection.  (Item  5)  Applicant  admits  the  debt  but  says  attempts  to  validate  them  went
unanswered by the debt collectors. He believes that medical debts should not be listed
on a credit report. (Item 2) They are unresolved.
SOR ¶¶  1.b  ($1,181) and  1.j ($1,854) are accounts with bank C that have been
charged off. (Items 5, 6) Applicant asserts that the debts, having been charged off, have
been “designated as income.” He provides no documentation to show this. He says he is
seeking to remove the debts from his credit report under the Fair Credit Reporting Act
(FCRA). (Item 2) They are unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.c  ($1,986) is an account with a bank that has been placed for collection.
(Items 5, 6) Applicant admits the debt and says he has “no issue” resolving the debt with
the original creditor but will not make payments to a collection agency without verification
that the debt is valid. He says he is seeking to remove the debts from his credit report
under the FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶¶  1.d  ($721) and  1.e  ($803) are debts to Bank S placed for collection with
collection agency M. (Items 5, 6) Applicant admits the debts and says he has “no issue”
resolving them with the original creditor but will not make payments to a collection agency
without verification that the debts are valid. He says he is seeking to remove the debts
from his credit report under the FCRA. (Item 2) The debts are unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f ($13,965) is an account with a bank that has been charged off. (Item 5)
Applicant  asserts  that  the  debt,  having  been  charged  off,  has  been  “designated  as
income.” He provides no documentation to show this. He says he is seeking to remove
the debt from his credit report under the FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.g  ($7,719) is an account with a bank that has been placed for collection.
(Item 5) Applicant admits the debt and says he has “no issue” resolving the debt with the
original creditor but will not make payments to a collection agency without verification that
the debt is valid. He says he is seeking to remove the debt from his credit report under
the FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.h  ($6,489) is a debt to Bank S placed with collection agency P. (Item 5)
Applicant admits the debt and says he has “no issue” resolving the debt with the original
creditor but  will not make  payments to  a collection  agency  without verification  that the
debt is valid. He says he is seeking to remove the debt from his credit report under the
FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.i ($5,563) is also a  debt to  Bank S  placed  with  collection  agency P. (Item
5)  Applicant  says  that   the   account  is  the   subject   of  a   court  hearing   that  is  currently
scheduled   and   he   “will   abide   by   the   court  decision.”  (Item   2)   Applicant  provided   no
updated information  or documents. The  debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.k  ($1,538) is a  credit account  that has  been  charged  off. (Item  5)  Applicant
asserts  that  the   debt,   having   been   charged   off,  has  been   “designated   as  income.”  He
provides no  documentation  to  show  this.  He  says he  is seeking  to  remove  the  debt  from
his credit report under the FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶  1.l  ($868) is an account with a bank that has been charged off.  (Item 5)
Applicant  asserts  that  the  debt,  having  been  charged  off,  has  been  “designated  as
income.” He provides no documentation to show this. He says he is seeking to remove
the debt from his credit report under the FCRA. (Item 2) The debt is unresolved.
Applicant provided no documentation to support his assertions about his efforts to
address  his  debts  responsibly.  As  Department  Counsel  notes  in  the  FORM,  Applicant
drives a $60,000 luxury car, purchased in August 2022. (Item 4 at 4) While the account
is current, it suggests that he is not addressing his delinquent debts responsibly and has
chosen instead to incur more debts.
The record did not indicate that he participated in more recent credit counseling
through  the  debt  relief  company,  or  otherwise.  He  also  provided  no  details  about  his
current assets, employment situation, or income stream, to determine the reasonableness
of his efforts to resolve his debts.
