Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. He is a college graduate. He married in 2019 and recently
had a  child.  He has  worked  for his present employer,  a federal contactor,  since  2022.
(Item 3)
In  December  2019,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  official from a  government
agency (GA). Applicant stated during the interview that in 2016 his brother supplied him
with marijuana candy that Applicant consumed on this one occasion in the family home.
His brother had purchased the marijuana candy in a local store in the state where they
lived and where marijuana is legal to use under state law. He told the official that he had
not  used  it  or  any  other  drug  since  the  2016  incident.  At  that  time,  he  did  not  realize
marijuana use was illegal under federal law. He understood his use was a mistake that
he regretted, and it would not happen again. He did not disclose it on other documents
because he was not focused on marijuana being illegal. He stated he had nothing to hide
and could not be blackmailed. (Item 4)
Applicant was interviewed again by an official from another GA in February 2020.
He stated during this interview when discussing prior illegal drug use that he had used
marijuana three times between 2009 and 2016. He said he gave his brother money as a
contribution to purchase edible marijuana in a state where it is legal. (Item 3)
Applicant also disclosed to the GA official that in 2015 he had purchased marijuana
brownies from a dispensary in state X. He consumed one marijuana brownie, gave one
to his girlfriend, and gave the rest to his brother. He mailed the brownie to his girlfriend,
who was located in the same state, as part of a care package, using Federal Express. He
said  he  was  concerned  about  shipping  the  marijuana  brownie  because  he  believed  it
could have been illegal to mail the drug, though it was never detected. He denied to the
official that he had any other involvement with illegal drugs and denied having any intent
to use them in the future. He admitted that he failed to disclose this drug involvement on
security forms he completed in October 2019 because of fear of it disqualifying him from
employment. (Item 3)
Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
December 2021. In response to section 25 about prior illegal drug use, he stated: “Tried
a  marijuana  candy approximately 3  times  since  2015, as legalized  in  the  state  of [x].  As
of 2018  I have  not and  will   not attempt   to  acquire  or use  any marijuana.” He listed  the
estimated  date  of  his first use  as June  2018  and  his most recent  use  as  November 2018.
(Item  2)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  that  in  February  2020  during  a
polygraph examination with another GA and after being advised of the penalty under Title
18 U.S.C. § 1001, he deliberately failed to disclose his involvement with illegal drugs for
fear of it disqualifying him from employment. (Item 1)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted that in December 2019 during an
interview with an official from another GA and after being advised of the penalty under
Title 18 U.S.C. § 1001, he knowingly withheld his more recent drug involvement because
he thought that withholding it would make it less likely to disqualify him from employment.
(Item 1)
Applicant  admitted  that  from  about  2015  to  about  November  2018,  he  used
tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  which  is  an  active  ingredient  in  marijuana  with  varying
frequency. (Item 1)
Applicant explained in his answer to the SOR that he has made a conscious effort
to change his behavior and be honest and truthful. He understood his failure to disclose
information during his polygraph is a serious infraction. He admitted his failure to disclose
information about his drug involvement occurred twice during his investigation from 2019
to 2020 and it has been three years since this occurred. He now has a family, and he
wants to teach his child the values of being honest, truthful, and personal integrity. His
prior  motivation  for  failing  to  be  honest  was  self-preservation  and  based  on  fear  and
shame.  He  further  explained  that  during  an  incident  at  work  that  could  have  been
damaging, he admitted his wrongdoing and accepted responsibility when he could have
been  removed  from  a  project.  He  said  he  chose  to  be  honest  to  his  supervisor.  He
believes he has demonstrated a change in his behavior. He said in 2022 he went through
another full investigation, and he was truthful even when the information could have been
harmful to obtaining a clearance and employment. He stated he will continue to make a
conscious effort to be truthful and honest in all circumstances that do not benefit him. He
acknowledged he made a mistake and has learned from it. (Item 1)
Regarding his past drug use, Applicant explained that he understands marijuana
use is illegal under federal law and his use was recreational and has ceased since 2018.
It has been five years since his last use of marijuana. He has no desire  to use it in the
future. He has responsibilities towards his family and employment and its illegal nature
are his primary motivators to not use it again in the future. (Item 1)
