Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged that Applicant used marijuana between 1968
and  January  2022  (SOR  1.a);  that  between  June  2014  and  January  2022,  his  use  of
marijuana occurred while he had access to classified information (SOR 1.b); and that he
intends to continue using marijuana (SOR 1.c). (FORM, Item 1)
In response to the SOR, he admitted, with comments, the allegations at SOR 1.a
and 1.b. He denied, with comments, the SOR 1.c allegation. (FORM, Item 2) The facts
alleged at SOR 1.a and 1.b are established by his admissions, and based on my review
of the information presented in the FORM, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  71-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked  in  an  information  technology  (IT)  position  since  November  2010.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 1982, and he has been married since  1984. He and his wife have
one adult child. (FORM, Item 3)
Applicant disclosed in Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his 2021
e-QIP that he used marijuana between June 2014 and May 2020. He could not state with
any precision how many times or how often he used marijuana because he did not use
or possess the drug unless he happened to be socializing with friends who were using
marijuana and offered it to him. As to his intentions regarding future use of marijuana, he
stated the following:
I’d be lying if I said I wasn’t going to ever, ever again have a smoke knowing
it’s quite likely I will find myself (as I have in the past) in a situation sometime
in  the  future  where  others  are  passing  it  around.  You  might  find  this
incredible to believe, but marijuana is really popular, especially now that it
is (about to be) legal in [the state where he lives and works]. (FORM, Item
3)
On August 25, 2021, Applicant completed a personal subject interview (PSI) by a
government investigator as part of his most recent background investigation. During the
PSI,  he  confirmed  his  disclosed  use  between  2014  and  2020,  estimating  he  smokes
marijuana between three and six times a year when it is offered to him in social settings.
He also stated that he knows his drug use violates federal workplace policies. In response
to  interrogatories  from  Department  Counsel,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  has  used
marijuana since 1968, but ceased frequent use in 1984. When he was first hired by his
current employer in 2010, he submitted an e-QIP in which he was required to disclose,
inter alia, any illegal drug use in the preceding seven years. He answered “no” to all of
the  Section  23  questions  in  that  clearance  application.  He  was  first  granted  a  security
clearance  and  access  to  classified  information  based  on  a  background  investigation
completed in March 2011. As to his future intent to use marijuana, Applicant now avers
that  he  will  abstain  from  using  marijuana  while  he  has  “an  active  security  clearance.”
(FORM, Items 2, 5, and 6)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February  2013,  and  by  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI)  in  December  2021,
makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the  various  states,
territories,  and  the  District  of  Columbia  do  not  alter  the  current  National  Security
Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this  issue,
Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of location or medical justification in his state of
residence, is illegal. Further, federal workplaces prohibit illegal drug use by civilian federal
employees and by persons employed for work on federal contracts.
