Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  March  2022  and
was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  April  2022.  The  following  information
was disclosed. He is 50 years old. He was born in Colombia. As a minor, Applicant moved
to the United States in 1987 with his father, stepmother, and siblings. At some point while
a minor, he moved to Venezuela with his family. His father became a citizen of Venezuela
and by default he became one also. He moved back to Colombia in 1991 and completed
high  school  in  1993.  He  returned  to  the  United  States  in  1994  where  he  has  resided
continuously and became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 2001. (Items 4, 5)
At the time Applicant became a U.S. citizen, he held citizenships in Colombia and
Venezuela.  He  relinquished  his  Venezuelan  citizenship  because  he  had  no  loyalty  or
obligation there and did not intend to return in the future. Applicant remains a dual citizen
of the United States and Colombia because his Colombian citizenship allows him to travel
there to visit his family without having to pay for a visa. He disclosed to the investigator
that  he  only  uses  his  Colombian  passport  to  enter  and  exit  Colombia.  He  also  has
considered living in Colombia when he retires because it has a lower cost of living. He
last  obtained  a  Colombian  passport  in  2016  and  it  expires  in  2026.  A  review  of  the
passport shows he used it for travel to Colombia in 2016, 2017 and 2022. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant  disclosed  to  the  government  investigator  that  he  was  offered  a  job  to
work  on  a  high-level  military  aircraft  but  it  would  have  required  him  to  renounce  his
Colombian citizenship, so he turned the job down. He does not like being forced to do
things. He does not feel a conflict of interest between his loyalties to the United States
and Colombia. He told the investigator that he feels more American than Colombian but
he is still Colombian. He does not receive any government benefits from Colombia. He
was asked by the government investigator where his loyalty would lie in a time of conflict
between the United States and Colombia, and he responded that he did not know. He
then said he would fight for the United States because he lives here. (Item 5)
Applicant married in 2000 and divorced in 2002. His former wife was in the United
States on a student visa but overstayed when it expired. She was in the U.S. illegally at
some point. He then sponsored her to become a legal permanent resident. He told the
investigator that she eventually became a U.S. citizen. They share an adult child born in
the United States. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant remarried in 2013. They have an eight-year-old child who was born in
the United States. His wife is a citizen of Colombia. He sponsored her to enter the U.S.
in 2014. Applicant told the investigator that she  lives in the United States and has filed
the necessary documents to become a U.S. citizen. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant’s  father  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Colombia  and  Venezuela  and  resides  in
Colombia.  From  1997 to  1999,  he  was  in  prison  in  the  United  States  for  selling  illegal
drugs. Upon his release he was deported to Colombia. Applicant told the investigator he
was  not  involved  with  any  illegal  activities  with  his  father.  Once  his  father  returned  to
Colombia, he was again involved in selling drugs there. Applicant stopped communicating
with him for a period while he was involved in selling drugs. His father can never return
to  the  United  States  due  to  his  felony  conviction.  His  criminal  activity  did  not  involve
importing illegal drugs. Applicant is unaware if anyone in his life is aware of his father’s
criminal past. He told the investigator that his father is unemployed, and he sends him
about $300 a month. He is 72 years old, and it is difficult for him to find work. Applicant
speaks to his father daily and has regular electronic contact with him. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant’s mother is a citizen of Colombia and is a former government employee.
She receives retirement benefits from the Colombian government.  She is a permanent
resident of the United States.  He said she will not become a U.S. citizen because she
does not speak English. It is unknown if she travels to Colombia. He has daily contact
with her. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant’s  stepfather  is  a  citizen  of  Colombia  and  a  permanent  resident  of  the
United States. Applicant stated that his stepfather intends on becoming a U.S. citizen. He
has daily contact with him. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant has two half-sisters who are citizens of Colombia. He believes one lives
in Italy, and he has no contact with her but is friends with her on Facebook. The other is
a student in Colombia. He last had contact with her in December 2021.  He has seven
half-brothers. Five live in the United States, and he believes three are dual citizens of the
United States and Colombia. He does not know the others’ immigration status. He has
infrequent contact with them. He has two half-brothers who are citizens and residents of
Colombia. He has contact with them on holidays and birthdays. His last contact with them
was 2021. (Item 5)
Applicant  has  two  uncles,  two  aunts,  and  four  cousins  who  are  citizens  and
residents of Colombia. He maintains regular contact with them all, varying between about
three to four times a week, once a month, once every three to four months, or a couple
of times a year. (Item 5)
Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law are citizens and residents of Colombia.
He has weekly telephone and electronic contact with them. His father-in-law is employed
but Applicant does not know the exact job he holds. His mother-in-law is a housewife. It
is unknown how much contact his wife has with her parents. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant’s  brother-in-law  and   two   sisters-in-law  are  citizens   and   residents   of
Colombia. Her  brother-in-law works for the National Police. His sisters-in-law work in the
private  sector. Applicant’s wife  has daily contact with  her brother-in-law and  one  sister-in-
law and weekly contact with the other  sister-in-law. (Item 5)
Applicant  and  his  wife  own  a  home  in  Colombia  with  an  approximate  value  of
$40,000. He and his wife purchased it in 2016 for about $20,000. They owe about $10,000
on  the  mortgage.  His  cousin  rents  the  house  from  them.  When  his  cousin  moves,  he
intends to sell the house. His wife has a bank account in Colombia that is used to manage
the finances related to the house. His uncle has a power of attorney related to the house.
He also uses this account to provide his father financial support. He told the government
investigator that if the house was seized it would not cause financial hardship. He did not
provide any other information about his current assets or finances. (Item 4, 5)
