Applicant  is  42  years  old.  He  has  been  married  to  his  wife  since  2018,  and  he
has  a  12-year-old  stepson,  whom  he  has  raised  since  his  stepson  was  a  toddler.  He
attended technical school courses during his junior and senior years of high school, and
in  2000,  he  received  a  high  school  diploma  from  the  technical  school.  He  has  been
employed by a  DOD contractor since March 2020. He works in production control and
requires a security clearance for his position. His interim secret clearance was revoked
when  the  SOR  was  issued  in  June  2022,  and  this  is  his  first  security  clearance
application. (GE 1-3; GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 10-11, 17-20)
Applicant  told  the  government  investigator  during  his  August  2020  background
interview  that  he  spent  most  of  his  time  between  1999  (when  he  was  18)  and  2013
either working or partying. His typical week consisted of going out to a bar three to four
nights, where he would consume seven to eight beers and have a few shots. If he was
not at the bar drinking, he was at home smoking marijuana. His testimony described a
different drinking pattern between 1999 and approximately 2015, when he worked night
shifts  in  the  restaurant  industry.  He  testified  that  during  this  period,  he  typically
consumed one or two cocktails at his workplace after his shifts ended, and then drove to
his home, where he would consume more alcohol. He would drink, “Maybe a 6-pack [of
beer] and a couple of shots or, you know, maybe more shots and not so many beers.” It
typically took eight to ten drinks for him to feel intoxicated, and this pattern occurred five
to six times a week. (GE 2; Tr. 21-26, 41-42)
In  2013,  Applicant  experienced  “some  very,  very  low  points”  in  his  life.  He  quit
using  drugs  after  he  borrowed  money  for  his  drug  use  and  realized  “it  was  time  to
change  [his]  life.”  He  testified  that  he  quit  using  drugs,  stopped  drinking  alcohol  as
heavily,  but  he  continued  to  consume  between  a  six-pack  to a  12-pack  of  beer  two  to
three  times  a  week  at  home.  However,  during  his  October  2021  psychological
evaluation, mentioned below, he stated that after he discontinued using drugs in 2013,
his alcohol consumption increased rather than decreased. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 26-27)
Applicant  started  taking  antidepressant  medications  in  2013,  and  he  was
prescribed testosterone medication in 2018. In 2020, he started to experience high and
low  mood  swings.  He  drank  more  during
the  downswings,  which  occurred
approximately two to three times a month. Additionally, during the downswings, he often
drank  to  the  point  that  he  blacked  out,  and  he  was  drinking  not  just  to  drink,  but  to
forget. (GE 3; Tr. 24-25, 29-32)
At the time of Applicant’s August 2020 interview with the investigator, he initially
described  his  alcohol  consumption  as  one  to  two  drinks  a  few  times  a  week.  Upon
further questioning regarding the time he was last intoxicated prior to the interview, he
admitted that he was intoxicated the previous weekend. It had been his birthday, and he
drank 10 to 12 beers and a few shots. He ultimately admitted that he consumed alcohol
at  this  level  two  or  three  times  a  month  and  that  he  was  experiencing  alcohol-related
blackouts two or three times a month. (GE 2; Tr. 28-29)
In  October  2021,  Applicant  was  referred  for  an  independent  psychological
evaluation  by  the  DOD  Consolidated  Adjudication  Facility  (CAF)  for  the  purpose  of
answering  the  following  question:  “Does  the  [Applicant]  have  any  medical,  psychiatric,
emotional,  or  substance  use  condition  which  could  impair  his  judgment,  reliability,  or
trustworthiness.”  In  reaching  her  opinion,  the  licensed  psychologist  (LP)  conducted  a
two-hour interview and administered the Psychological Assessment Inventory (PAI) and
the Substance Abuse Subtle Screening Inventory (SASSI-4). The LP also reviewed and
relied  upon  documents  provided  by  the  CAF,  including  Applicant’s  August  2020
interview  and  his  2018  security  clearance  application  (SCA).  The  LP  determined  that
Applicant  met  the  criteria  for  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  Severe,  and  concluded  that  his
prognosis was guarded to fair. She recommended that he refrain from consuming shots
of hard liquor and continue to limit his drinking. (GE 3)
Applicant told the LP that, in October 2021, he was drinking three times a week,
primarily on the weekends, and consuming a maximum of four to five beers. He blacked
out from drinking three or four times after his August 2020 interview, and the last time
he  blacked  out  was  in  approximately  June  2021.  During  his  blackouts,  he  had  no
memory of what occurred until he woke up in the morning. (GE 3)
Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  drinking  just  before  the  DOD  evaluation.
However,  at  the  hearing,  he  disclosed  that  he  consumes  “[m]aybe  a  beer or  two  here
and  there.”  He  testified  that  he  had  not  been  intoxicated  since  October  2021,  and  the
most he has consumed at one time since the 2021 evaluation is four beers. Before the
hearing  date,  he  consumed  two  beers,  at  home,  eight  or  nine  days  earlier  over  the
weekend. He currently drinks alcohol two to three times a month. (Tr. 26-40)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted he reduced his alcohol consumption in 2021,
because  he  was  afraid  of  losing  his  wife  and  stepson.  He  also  told  the  LP  that  he
reduced  his  drinking,  because  he  did  not  want  to  risk  hurting  himself  or  anyone  else.
When Applicant changed his level of alcohol consumption, he started going to the gym
more,  helping  his  stepson  practice  baseball,  and  took  up  woodworking  as  a  hobby.
Applicant disclosed to the government investigator that his wife expressed concern that
he becomes angry when he is intoxicated. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 36-40, 44)
Applicant  has  never  attended  an  alcohol-treatment  program  or  Alcoholics
Anonymous  (AA)  meetings.  He  did  not  obtain  an  updated  evaluation  prior  to  the
hearing. He received a copy of the DOD evaluation in September 2022, and at that time
he  considered  discontinuing  all  consumption  of  alcohol,  because  he  was  concerned
about losing his job and his clearance. He stated, “I feel like I’ve stopped drinking to the
point  where  I  don’t  put  myself  in  danger.  I  don’t  put  anybody  else  in  danger.  I’m  not
blacking out. I’m not drinking while I’m driving.” In October 2020, he told the government
investigator that he was addressing his alcohol issues on his own, and he was on day
four of a 75-day no-alcohol pledge. He hoped that after he finished the pledge, he would
have a better handle on his alcohol consumption.  In October 2021, he told the LP that
he discontinued the 75-day challenge after approximately 10 days due to the challenge
of not eating sugar. (GE 2; GE 3; Tr.40, 44-45, 47-48)
During cross-examination, Applicant was asked about his history of driving while
intoxicated.  He  claimed  that  if  he  had  ever  driven  over  the  legal  limit,  it  was  after
consuming two to three drinks when he was younger and still working in the restaurant
industry. However, he told the DOD evaluator  that he had driven while intoxicated two
years  prior  to  his  October  2021  evaluation.  He  has  never  been  arrested  for  alcohol-
related issues. The issue  regarding Applicant driving while intoxicated was not alleged
in  the  SOR  and  will  not  be  considered  as  disqualifying  conduct;  however,  it  may  be
considered in assessing mitigation and whole-person applicability. (Tr. 3, 20, 46)
