Applicant  is  41  years  old  and  married  with  two  children.  He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree. Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor (Company A) since March
2020 as a release engineer and is attempting to obtain a security clearance in relation to
his employment. (Tr. 35-36; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17; Applicant
Exhibit A.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he abuses intoxicants to excess. He denied both allegations in this paragraph
with explanations.
Applicant has worked consistently as a software engineer since graduating from
college in 2006. He worked for Company B, a major IT company, from February 2015 to
March  2020.  Up through  2017 his work was exemplary, and his evaluations  stated he
“meets  all  expectations.”  Beginning  in  2018,  however,  he  began  receiving  marginal
evaluations. He stated that at this point in time he began to use alcohol and marijuana to
cope  with  job  stress.  His  actions  did  not  relieve  the  job  stress.  By  early  2019  he  was
having  serious  emotional problems due to  job  and  home  stress, and  the  impact  of his
increased alcohol and marijuana use. This description of his use is attested to by both
Applicant and his wife. At this point he voluntarily took a 30-day leave of absence from
Company  B  to  attend  an  outpatient  treatment  program  for  a  stress-induced  mood
disorder, as well as alcohol and marijuana use. While worthwhile, he did not feel that he
had  received  sufficient  treatment  to  resolve  his  issues.  Accordingly,  he  received  an
additional 60 days of outpatient treatment. He feels that the treatment was successful.
(Tr. 16-18, 22. 28-30, 37, 61, 73-74; Applicant Exhibit D.)
Soon  after  returning  to  Company  B  after  his  three-month  leave  of  absence
Applicant  received  a  job  offer  from  Company  A.  As  stated,  he  began  working  there  in
early 2020. He testified that he enjoys the work and finds it very fulfilling. His evaluations
at this job have been outstanding, according to his current and former supervisors.  (Tr.
75-88; Applicant Exhibit F at 1-2, 6.)
The programs Applicant attended recommended that he not drink alcohol. He did
not drink alcohol for several months after finishing his program. He eventually began to
drink  again and  continued to drink  some amount of alcohol several times a week until
November 2022. At that point he made the decision to stop drinking altogether and began
attending  a  recovery  program.  He  testified  that  the  program  is  assisting  him  in  his
recovery. (Tr. 18-19, 42-46, 62, 68-70; Applicant Exhibits J and K.)
Applicant continues to experience stress, even in the new job. He began seeing a
psychiatric nurse practitioner (PNP) in January 2022 due to depression and anxiety.  In
May  2022  the  therapist  reported,  “Patient  [Applicant]  states  that  he  stayed  sober  for
several days, but then would binge drink on a bottle of whiskey or pack of beer at a sitting.
Patient continues to report cravings for alcohol.”  (Tr. 63-65; Government Exhibit 4 at 4;
Applicant Exhibit I at 2.)
Applicant Exhibit I has additional treatment notes from September 2022 at page 2.
The PNP stated:
Patient [Applicant] remained on  Pristiq, no longer taking  naltrexone. States
that  it worked  well at  first, then  it  seemed  to  stop  working  for etoh  [alcohol]
cravings. Has had  some  nights  where he  drank more than  he  desired, but
not getting  overly intoxicated.  Feeling  much  better with  mood, denies any
down  days  like   he   used   to   have.   [Reports]   working   full   time,  busy  with
family. Some  anxiety with life stress –  able to tolerate.
Applicant testified  that  he  does not feel he  currently has a  problem  with  alcohol.
He further testified  that  he  never told the  therapist that he  engaged  in  binge drinking. He
admitted  drinking  a  fifth  of whiskey  within  three  days.  He  did  make  an  arrangement  with
his wife  that she  would  tell  him  if she  felt that he  was drinking  too much. She  did tell  him
several times  about excessive drinking  last  year up  to  about  August  2022. (Tr. 23-26,  44-
45, 47-48, 66-68, 70-71.)
Applicant received  an  evaluation  from  a  DoD  psychological  consultant  (Dr. One).
His report is dated  July 6, 2022,  and  is Government Exhibit 3.  (Tr. 46-47.)  That report
stated the following:
DIAGNOSTIC  IMPRESSION:   The   Subject   [Applicant]   was  referred   for
evaluation  to  determine  if he  meets criteria  for any condition  which  would
jeopardize   his   judgment,   reliability,  or  trustworthiness.   Specifically,  his
history  of  marijuana   and   alcohol  use   was  of  concern.  Based   upon   the
increased  frequency and  amount used  prior to  his voluntary admission  to
treatment,  the  Subject likely met criteria  for an  alcohol use  disorder and  a
cannabis use  disorder.  He currently does  not appear to  meet criteria  for the
marijuana  use  disorder  since  his reported  abstinence  during  the  application
process  for  his  current  position   in  early  2020.  However,  according   to   his
current medical records, Subject  continues to  suffer from  alcohol cravings
and  engages in binge  drinking  to  cope  with  work stress despite  his stated
desire  to  be  sober. Personal restraint has not appeared  to  be sufficient to
curb  his  consumption   behaviors  and   he   was  most  recently  prescribed
Naltroxone  to  mitigate  cravings. As such, it appears that the  diagnosis of
alcohol use  disorder is  still  current and  applicable to  the  Subject’s profile.
The   diagnoses  below   attempt  to   capture  the   Subject’s  present  level  of
functioning.
DIAGNOSIS:
Alcohol use disorder, moderate
Unspecified depressive disorder, with anxious distress
Cannabis use disorder, moderate, in sustained remission
(F10.20)
(F32.9)
(F12.20)
PROGNOSIS: The Subject’s prior history of alcohol and marijuana use and
subsequent  treatment  raised  concerns  over  the  Subject’s  ability  to  have
good judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Having an active diagnosis
of either would bring inherent risk to those factors. The evaluation did not
reveal that the Subject is suffering from any ongoing marijuana use. If his
reporting of abstinence is accurate, then it is not likely a risk factor and can
be dismissed as a matter of consideration. However, the information from
his  current  prescriber  indicated  that  he  still  struggles  with  binge  drinking,
cravings, and has difficulty staying sober. His consumption appears to be
for similar reasons now as it was when he submitted himself for voluntary
treatment  (ie.  [sic]  work  reviews).  This  information  indicates  that  the
Subject’s  alcohol  use  disorder  is  current,  without  a  sustained  period  of
abstinence,  and  therefore  represents  an  inherent  risk  to  his  judgment,
reliability, and trustworthiness.
Applicant was  also  evaluated  by a  psychologist  (Dr. Two), who  was  retained  by
Applicant.  (Tr. 48-49.)  He  submitted  a  report dated  December 5, 2022. (Applicant Exhibit
E.)  That  report stated:
Conclusion:
[Applicant] has enjoyed mild to moderate drinking of beer and whiskey for
much of his adult life. It became a problem for him three years ago, when
his drinking increased, and combined with cannabis use, sleep deprivation
(due  to  his  youngest  child  having  sleep  problems  and  requiring  care  at
night)  and  stress  at  work,  he  developed  a  mood  disorder  for  which  he
sought  and  received  successful  treatment.  It  is  unlikely  that  this  mood
disorder (Substance Induced Mood Disorder) will reoccur. He sleeps well,
his  child  is  doing  well,  he  no  longer  smokes  marijuana,  and  his  work
situation has dramatically improved.
Treatment  three  years  ago  was  successful.  He  has  learned  to  maintain
regular mild to moderate use of alcohol. He currently drinks mildly, between
one and three times a week, on or two drinks on each occasion. To have a
diagnosed  alcohol  condition,  a  person  must  meet  at  last  two  of  eleven
criteria  over the  last twelve  months.  The  only sign  that  [Applicant] shows
are occasional cravings, his drinking has never affected any important life
functions,  and  he  has  never  developed  tolerance  or  suffered  withdrawal
symptoms.  Mild  to  moderate  alcohol  consumption,  without  any  other
challenges, is not an alcohol problem and does not cause other difficulties.
Dr. Two submitted an Addendum dated January 20, 2023. (Applicant Exhibit G.)
It states:
I would like to clarify that I reviewed that entire record, including notes from
[PNP]  [Applicant  Exhibit  I).  In  February 2022,  she  noted  that  alcohol use
was  not  affecting  any  significant  life  function.  In  May  2022,  she  noted
increased alcohol use, that again did not affect work or any other important
life functions. This does not qualify as a disorder. At this time, she also used
the term binge drink, which is incorrect, as [Applicant] emphatically states
that this was incorrect, that he would not drink an entire bottle in one sitting,
but over the course of several days. In September 2022, she also reported
some  alcohol  use,  again  not  affecting  work,  relationships  or  any  other
important  life  skill.  Throughout  her  record,  she  reports  that  medication
helped him maintain his mood. I stand by my impression that he has never
qualified  as  having  an  alcohol  disorder  based  on  the  DSM  5  definition.
Though he drinks sometimes to excess, this is at home, not at work, does
not  affect  his  relationships,  work  or  any  other  life  function,  he  is  not
dependent, has never developed withdrawal symptoms, has never missed
work due to alcohol use, does not currently experience cravings.
Paragraph 2 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions)
The DoD CAF alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is not eligible
for access because he has an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair
his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. He denied SOR 2.a. He admitted in part and
denied in part SOR 2.b. He denied SOR 2.c.
SOR paragraph 2.a. references Applicant’s receiving mental health treatment as
part of the factual statement.  Paragraph 27 of the Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), which
sets forth the concern under this guideline, states in pertinent part, “No negative inference
concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised solely on the basis of mental
health  counseling.”  In  addition,  the  Defense  Counterintelligence  and  Security  Agency
factsheet, “Mental Health and Security Clearances,” states in part, “Seeking mental health
services does not affect one’s ability to gain or hold security eligibility. Adjudicators regard
seeking necessary mental health treatment as a positive step in the security clearance
process.” (Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Mental Health and Security
Clearances, https://www.dcsa.mil/Portals/91/Documents/  pv/DODCAF/resources/DCSA-
FactSheet  Mental-Health  SecurityClearances-Oct21.pdf
(accessed  September  5,
2023.)
2.a.  There  is  little  to  no  support  for  the  allegation  that  Applicant  has  been
diagnosed with bipolar disorder. The only evidence is an affirmative statement by him in
answer to Section 21 “Psychological and Emotional Health” on Government Exhibit 1 that
asked whether he had “EVER been diagnosed by a physician . . . with . . . bipolar mood
disorder.” He stated that he answered the question this way because of a statement made
to him by one of his therapists during his first 30-day outpatient treatment that some of
his conduct could indicate a bipolar disorder. However, there is no diagnosis of bipolar
disorder found anywhere in the available medical records. He testified that both Dr. One
and  Dr.  Two  stated  they  did  not  believe  Applicant  suffered  from  a  bipolar  disorder.
(Government Exhibit 1; Tr. 20, 49-52.)
2.b. Applicant admitted, and the available medical records confirm, that he suffers
from depression and anxiety. He is receiving therapy for it, and is also on medication. He
further stated that therapy and medication are helping control his depression and anxiety.
He  is  also  attempting to  obtain  additional  individual  therapy  with  a  psychologist.  He  is
currently on a waitlist for this provider. (Tr. 52-56; Government Exhibits 3 and 4; Applicant
Exhibits I and L.)
2.c. The Government alleged that Doctor One’s diagnosis of Applicant as currently
suffering from Alcohol Use Disorder, Moderate, is cognizable under this guideline as well.
Applicant denied this allegation.
Mitigation
Applicant has been a successful employee at Company A. His current supervisor
testified  and  supplied  a  letter  on  his  behalf.  He  has  known  Applicant  since  2015  at
Company A and Company B, and has been his supervisor at both companies for more
than three years. He described Applicant as a “great” employee. He further testified that
he has not seen any evidence of alcohol or mental health issues with Applicant. He further
stated that he has entrusted Applicant with large projects and stated he trusts Applicant
not to reveal classified or proprietary data. (Tr. 77-88; Applicant Exhibit F at 6.)
Another supervisor of Applicant’s at both Company A and Company B submitted
a  very  laudatory  letter  on  his  behalf.  He  described  Applicant  as  having  “the  highest
integrity.” (Applicant Exhibit F at 1-2.)
Peer  feedback  from  fellow  employees  of  Company  A  in  2022  was  extremely
favorable. (Tr. 56-59; Applicant Exhibit B.)
