In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted part of SOR ¶ 1.a; and he admitted SOR
¶¶ 2.b through 2.j and 3.a through 3.d. (HE 3) He denied part of SOR ¶ 1.a; and he denied
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 2.k. He did not admit or deny SOR ¶ 2.a. He also provided mitigating
information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  information  technology  specialist.  (Tr.  6,  9)  He  has
worked for his current employer for about one year. (Tr. 9) In 1996, he graduated from
high school. (Tr. 6) In 2003, he received an associate degree in computer networking.
(Tr. 7) He was married from 2008 to 2017. (Tr. 7, 24) His children are ages 9 and 11, and
he is current on his $738 monthly child support. (Tr. 8) He has never served in the military.
(Tr. 8) There is no evidence of criminal offenses, drug abuse, or security violations.
Alcohol Consumption and Psychological Conditions
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  on  February  1,  2022,  a  psychologist,  Dr.  G,  interviewed
Applicant, reviewed his medical records, and diagnosed him with Alcohol Use Disorder,
Anxiety Disorder, unspecified, and Depressive Disorder, unspecified. He said Applicant
was defensive about his alcohol consumption, and he concluded Applicant exhibits issues
with  reliability  and  trustworthiness  which  may  impair  his  ability  to  protect  classified
information. Dr. G’s evaluation  referenced a March 2017 treatment note, which states,
“His history of drinking included one pint of vodka daily or more for nine years. He had a
history of blackouts. His longest period of sobriety was seven days in 2016 due to pain in
the  abdomen.”  (GE  2  at  4)  Dr.  G  concluded  that  his  mental-health  conditions  pose  a
significant risk to his judgment and stability in the future unless he obtains treatment and
maintains sobriety.
Applicant’s first panic attack occurred  around  2000  when  he  was about 22  years
old.   (Tr.  25)  He  has  received   medication   for  anxiety  since   2006.  (Tr.  26)  He  said  he
consistently takes his anxiety medication, and  it has helped  him  “tremendously.” (Tr. 26)
He disagreed with Dr. G’s diagnosis of Depressive Disorder. (Tr. 26) He described himself
as a “very happy go lucky person.” (Tr. 27)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  on  or  about  February  22,  2017,  Applicant  was  admitted  for
inpatient treatment after consuming about 200 tablets of the prescription drug Xanax and
one pint of vodka in an attempted suicide. In his SOR response, he denied SOR ¶ 1.b,
and he said he did not intend to commit suicide or take 200 Xanax tablets.
Applicant said  in February 2017, he  consumed  about a  pint of vodka, and  he  was
intoxicated.  (Tr. 30, 33)  He took  about  10,  .25  milligram  doses  of Xanax. (Tr. 30) Applicant
said he  did not remember why he  consumed  the  Xanax; however, he  was not attempting
suicide.  (Tr.  30)  He  said  an   emergency  room   (ER)   note   indicating   he   took  about  200
Xanax  tablets  is an exaggeration. (Tr. 31)  He  did not have  a  prescription for such  a large
amount of Xanax. (Tr. 31) He did not remember what he  said  in the  emergency room. (Tr.
31)  He  denied   that  he   would  have   knowingly  exaggerated   the   amount  of  Xanax  he
consumed, and  he  suggested  his former spouse  may have  told  someone  in  the  ER that
he  took 200  Xanax. (Tr. 32) He  denied  that he  ever experienced  suicidal ideations  or that
he   attempted   suicide.   (Tr.  32)  In   2017,  he   was  drinking   a   pint   of   vodka   about   twice   a
week.  (Tr.   33)   In   2017,   he   went   to   “rehab”  for   about  10   days,  and   to   Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) meetings for about a month.  (Tr. 40, 51, 52; GE  5 at 5)
SOR  ¶  2.a  cross  alleges  the  information  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  as  an  alcohol
consumption security concern. SOR ¶¶ 2.b and 2.c allege, and Applicant admits that on
January 26, 2011, and on January 4, 2012, Dr. L diagnosed him with Alcohol Abuse, not
otherwise specified (NOS). (Tr. 35-36) When he first sought help, he was drinking four or
five days a week and about “a few glasses of wine [and] a half a pint of vodka.” (Tr. 36)
Applicant  said  on  January  4,  2012,  Dr.  L  advised  him  to  decrease  his  alcohol
consumption. (Tr. 37) She said he was supposed to “slow down at the very least” on his
alcohol consumption.  (Tr.  37)  Dr.  L  did  not  tell  him  to  abstain  completely from  alcohol
consumption. SOR ¶ 2.d alleges and Applicant admits that on August 28, 2012, he told
Dr.  L  that  he  continued  to  consume  alcohol,  and  Dr.  L  recommended  he  receive
substance abuse counseling. In August 2012, he was consuming a pint of alcohol four
times a week. (Tr. 38; GE 3 at 116) At his hearing, he said he did not remember that Dr.
L recommended that he obtain substance abuse counseling. (Tr. 37, 40) He was sober
for a while, and then he resumed his alcohol consumption. (Tr. 38) Sometimes he hid his
alcohol  consumption  from  his  spouse.  (Tr.  39-40;  GE  3  at  116)  He  did  not  remember
specific  information  about  his  level  of  alcohol  consumption  or  his  behavior  with  his
spouse. (Tr. 40) Dr. L. prescribed Campral for him; however, he did not continue taking it
because he was worried it would make him sick if he drank alcohol. (Tr. 41)
SOR ¶ 2.e alleges and Applicant admits that he received inpatient treatment from
October 14 to October 16, 2013, for renal colic and alcohol abuse. (SOR response) Upon
discharge  he  was  advised  to  cease  consuming  alcohol  due  to  potential  adverse
interactions with prescribed anxiety medication. (Id.)
SOR ¶ 2.f alleges and Applicant admits that on April 17, 2015, he told Dr. K that
he  had  alcoholism  for  10  years  and  experienced  marital  discord  due  to  alcohol
consumption.  (SOR  response)  Dr.  K  diagnosed  him  with  Alcohol  Abuse,  NOS,  and
encouraged him to join a substance abuse support group and advised to abstain from
further  alcohol  consumption.  (Id.)  At  his  hearing,  Applicant  said  he  did  not  remember
hiding his alcohol consumption from his spouse. (Tr. 42) He did not remember meeting
with Dr. K; however, he accepted that the meeting and diagnosis occurred because it is
in his medical record. (Tr. 42-43)
SOR ¶ 2.g alleges and Applicant admits that on March 31, 2016, he told Dr. F he
increased  his  alcohol  consumption.  (SOR  response)  He  drank  almost  every  day,  and
sometimes to intoxication. (Tr. 44) Dr. F diagnosed him with Alcohol Abuse, encouraged
him to join a substance abuse support group, and advised him to abstain from alcohol
consumption. (Tr. 44) He briefly stopped his alcohol consumption, and then, he resumed
his  alcohol  consumption.  (Tr.  44)  SOR  ¶  2.h  alleges  and  Applicant  admits  that  on
September  12,  2016,  Dr.  F  advised  him  to  abstain  from  alcohol  consumption.  (SOR
response) SOR ¶ 2.i alleges and Applicant admits that on September 19, 2017, he told
Dr. F he resumed his alcohol consumption after being hospitalized from October 14 to
October 16, 2013. (Id.) Dr. F diagnosed him with Alcohol Abuse, encouraged him to join
a substance abuse support group, and advised him to abstain from alcohol consumption.
(Tr. 45; SOR response)
SOR ¶ 2.j alleges and Applicant admits that on February 28, 2020, Dr. S diagnosed
him with Alcohol Abuse, Acute alcoholic gastritis without hemorrhage, and Hepatomegalia
(enlarged  liver),  likely  resulting  from  his  alcohol  consumption.  (Tr.  46;  SOR  response)
However,  at  his  hearing  Applicant  said  he  did  not  remember  the  Hepatomegalia
diagnosis, and recent tests showed his liver was normal. (Tr. 46) Dr. S encouraged him
to reduce his alcohol consumption and to join a substance abuse support group. He was
prescribed benzodiazepines to reduce withdrawal symptoms, until complete cessation.
At his hearing, he said he remembered being prescribed benzodiazepines; however, he
did not remember being advised to stop drinking alcohol. (Tr. 46)
In his SOR response, Applicant denied SOR ¶ 2.k, which alleges that he continued
to consume alcohol contrary to treatment recommendations described in SOR ¶¶ 2.c, 2.e,
2.f, 2.g, 2.h, 2.i, and 2.j, supra.  For SOR ¶ 2.c, Applicant said Dr. L recommended that
he reduce his alcohol consumption and not that he cease all alcohol consumption.  For
SOR ¶ 2.j he did not remember being advised to stop drinking alcohol.
From 1999 to about 2006, Applicant drank alcohol to help him cope with anxiety.
(Tr.  34)  He  received  medication  which  helped  with  his  anxiety.  (Tr.  34)  His  alcohol
consumption  gradually  increased,  and  it  peaked  around  2015  or  2016.  (Tr.  35)  He
stopped  drinking  alcohol  around  May  of  2021,  except  for  occasional  sips  from  other
people’s  drinks.  (Tr.  47,  49)  He  completely  stopped  drinking  alcohol  in  about  2021  or
2022.  (Tr.  49)  He  has  a  history  of  consumption  of  alcohol  contrary  to
the
recommendations  of  health  practitioners.  (Tr.  50)  He  does  not  attend  any  alcohol
counseling such as AA meetings. (Tr. 51) He relies on the support of family and friends.
(Tr. 51) He does not receive any mental-health counseling or treatment beyond renewal
of his prescriptions. (Tr. 54)
Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶¶  3.a  through  3.d  allege  and  Applicant  admits  that  he  failed  to  disclose
information on his December 14, 2016 SCA about his mental-health and suggestions that
he receive alcohol counseling. The SCA asked him in the previous seven years: whether
he had consulted with a health-care professional regarding an emotional or mental-health
condition; and whether alcohol had a negative impact on his professional and personal
relationships. His SCA also asked whether he had: ever been ordered, advised, or asked
to seek counseling or treatment because of his use of alcohol; and ever sought counseling
and  treatment  because  of  his  use  of  alcohol.  Applicant  answered,  no,  to  these  four
questions.
Applicant understood  the  questions  on  his SCA.  (Tr. 59) He  did  not disclose  his
history of mental health  and  alcohol treatment on  his SCA because  he  did  not think  it was
an  issue  for him  or in  the  alternative, he  said  he  did  not remember why he  did not  disclose
the  requested  information. (Tr. 55) His alcohol consumption  did  not  affect his work and
did  not   involve   law   enforcement.  (Tr.  55)   He  admitted   his  alcohol   consumption   had   a
negative  impact  on  his  marriage.  (Tr. 56) He did not  remember  the wording  in  the  SCA’s
question  about being  advised  to  seek alcohol treatment, and  he  may  have  considered  the
question  to  be  asking  whether he  was ordered  to  seek alcohol treatment  as opposed  to
a  suggestion.  (Tr. 56) He answered,  no, to  the  question  about  mental-health  treatment
because  he  believed  his mental health  “was under control.” (Tr. 57)  He was unsure about
his state  of mind  at  the  time  he  answered  the  questions  on  his SCA. (Tr. 58) His best
recollection was that he answered  no because he “just didn’t think it was a  big deal.” (Tr.
61)
Character Evidence
On June 14, 2023, Applicant’s site manager said:
During [Applicant’s]  tenure at [his employment], [his] conduct consistently
demonstrated a strong sense of integrity and an unwavering commitment
to ethical practices. [His] dedication to upholding the highest standards of
honesty  and  reliability  was  truly  remarkable.  [He]  exhibited  a  deep
understanding of the importance of trust in professional relationships and
always ensured that [his] actions reflected this understanding.
One  of  the  most  remarkable  aspects  of  [his]  work  was  [his]  ability  to
consistently  deliver  results  while  maintaining  an  impeccable  level  of
transparency.  Whether  it  was  handling  sensitive  information  or  making
critical decisions, [he]. proved to be a trustworthy individual who could be
always relied upon to exercise discretion and confidentiality.
Furthermore,  [he]  consistently  exhibited  professionalism  and  reliability  in
[his]  interactions with colleagues, clients, and  superiors.  [He] consistently
took  ownership  of  [his]responsibilities  and  demonstrated  an  unwavering
dedication  to  meeting  deadlines  and  delivering  high-quality  work.  [His]
ethical  approach  to  [his]  work  inspired  trust  and  confidence  among  both
their  peers  and  superiors,  fostering  a  positive  and  harmonious  work
environment.
Beyond [his] exceptional work ethic and integrity, [he] displayed a genuine
empathy  and  respect  for  others.  [His]  willingness  to  listen,  support,  and
collaborate  created  an  atmosphere  of  trust  and  camaraderie  within  the
team. [His] open-mindedness and ability to consider diverse perspectives
greatly  contributed  to  the  success  of  group  projects  and  fostered  an
inclusive work culture.
I have no hesitation in highly recommending [him] for any future endeavors,
as  I  am  confident,  he  will  continue  to  excel  and  positively  impact  any
organization [he will] become a part of. I see no reason to revoke or impede
his ability to work with us and our valued customer. (AE B)
Applicant’s former spouse described him as compassionate, kind, and dedicated
to  his  family.  (AE  A)  He  seeks  self-improvement  and  is  achieving  his  goals.  (AE  A)
Applicant made a sincere statement about his goals at work and his desire to support his
family. He said:
I am  a  loving, honest father who  just wants to  provide  for his kids. I love  my
job. I am  very good  at my job. I am  very well connected  with everyone  that
I work with. They all respect me for my work,  my honesty,  and my integrity.
. . . I’ve  never been  disciplined for any reason  whatsoever. I’m  honest.  I’m
prudent.  I’m  respectful  [about]  everything  and  anything  that I  do. I take  pride
in what I do.  I simply just want to  be  able to  have  my job. As  I said, I’ve  been
sober for the  last  two  years. I admit I made  mistakes in the  past and  I’m  very
regretful for that.  .  . . But,  I’m  making  the  best of what I have  now.  And,  I
just, I honestly, I just  want to  be  able to  work,  do  my job. . . . I just  want to
do the  best I can going forward. (Tr. 22-23)
