Applicant  admitted  the allegations  in  SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d, 2.a  and 2.b,  with
explanations.  He  denied  SOR  ¶  2.c,  with  explanations.  I  have  incorporated  his
admissions  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 44 years old. He earned some college credits but not a degree. He
was  married  from  2005  to  2007.  He  remarried  in  2016  and  was  divorced  in  2020.  He
has two children from his second marriage, ages 11 and 6. He has been employed by
federal contractors since approximately 2011 and by his present employer since 2019.
He  is  responsible  for  providing  maintenance  on  the  hardware  of  both  classified  and
unclassified  government  computers.  He  stated  he  does  not  have  access  to  classified
sites but is responsible for the cables and fiber optics to them. (Tr. 16-22, 104-108; GE
1)
Applicant and his second wife separated sometime around May 2019. He stated
that he believed at that time they were still working on saving their marriage. In October
2019,  he  learned  that  she  obtained  a  default  judgment  for  divorce  from  him.  The
judgment  was  later  vacated,  and  they  proceeded  to  divorce  and  were  awarded  equal
custody of the children. After the divorce was final, he learned from one of his children
that his ex-wife had been having an affair with his cousin while they were still married.
Applicant sent her inappropriate text messages. He admitted he lost his temper. Based
on the text messages, his ex-wife sought protection from the court. (Tr. 22-29; GE 2, 3)
Prior to the hearing, Applicant’s attorney advised him that it would be beneficial if
he started an anger management class. When he enrolled, it was recommended that he
also take a class on domestic abuse, which included the anger management class. The
class lasted 24 weeks. When he went to court, the judge ruled the text messages were
harassing  and  threatening,  which  resulted  in  an  ex  parte  order  of  protection  issued
against Applicant in July 2020. He was not permitted to see his children as part of this
order. He was ordered to continue taking  the  anger management classes. (Tr.27-38, 84-
86;  AE A; Answer to  the SOR)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  severe  back  pain  and  in  2013,  his  doctor
prescribed  oxycodone  for  the  pain.  He  did  not  feel  good  on  the  pain  medication.  In
2015, due to his own concern about the addictive nature of the drug, he told his doctor
he  wanted  to  pursue  different  pain  management.  He  was  weened  off  oxycodone.  His
doctor  suggested  he  use  Cannabidiol  (CBD).  He  was  told  it  was  natural  and  not  a
narcotic.  It  relieved  his  pain  and allowed  him  to  function  normally.  Applicant  stated  he
could purchase the CBD legally in his state. He used it as a muscle relaxer for his pain
and back condition. He believed he could use CBD because it is legal in his state. He
did  not  know of  any  federal law  implications.  He  purchased and  used  it  regularly  from
May 2015 to May 2021. (Tr. 39-52, 91-100)
The  Security  Executive  Agent  for  the  United  States  Government  provided
clarifying guidance concerning marijuana on December 21, 2021. Part of that guidance
addressed CBD products:
With  respect to  the  use  of CBD  products,  agencies should be  aware  that
using   these   cannabis   derivatives   may  be   relevant   to   adjudications  in
accordance   with   SEAD  4.   Although   the   passage   of  the   Agricultural
Improvement  Act of  2018  excluded  hemp  from  the  definition  of  marijuana
within  the   Controlled   Substances   Act,   products  containing   greater  than   a
0.3   percent   concentration   of   delta-9   tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  a
psychoactive  ingredient in marijuana, do  not  meet the  definition  of  “hemp.”
Accordingly,   products   labeled   as   hemp-derived   that  contain   greater  than
0.3   percent  THC  continue   to   meet   the   legal   definition   of  marijuana,  and
therefore  remain   illegal  to   use   under  federal  law  and   policy.  Additionally,
agencies  should be  aware  that the  Federal Drug  Administration  does not
certify  levels of   THC in  CBD products,   so   the   percentage  of   THC cannot
be   guaranteed,  thus  posing   a   concern  pertaining   to   the   use   of  a   CBD
product under federal law.  Studies have   shown  that   some   CBD products
exceed   the   0.3   percent   THC  threshold   for  hemp,   notwithstanding
advertising  labels (Reference  F). Therefore,  there  is a  risk that using  these
products  may nonetheless cause  sufficiently high  levels of THC to  result in
a   positive  marijuana   test   under  agency-administered   employment  or
random  drug  testing  programs. Should an  individual test positive, they will
be   subject   to   an   investigation   under  specific  guidelines  established   by
their home agency.
The  Substance  Abuse  and  Mental  Health  Services  Administration  (SAMSHA)
provided a warning about CBD products on July 24, 2019:
labeling   does  not
Studies   have   shown   that   some   CBD  products’
accurately  reflect  their  content.   Cannabis  based   products  containing   a
THC   level  greater  than   0.3%  on   a  dry  weight  basis  do   not  fall   under  the
Farm   Bill’s  definition   of  hemp   even   if  they   are  labeled   as  such.   In   one
study,  the   amount  of   CBD  in  69%  of  the   84   tested   CBD  products  was
inconsistent  with   that  on   the   label,   and   some   products  contained
unlabeled   cannabinoids,  including   THC  in  amounts  up   to   6.4   mg/ml.  As
such,  an   employee’s  drug   test  may  be   positive  for  the   THC  metabolite,
delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic acid (THCA), due  to  THC in the
CBD product.
SAMSHA  further  advised  that  “federal  agencies  should  make  every  effort  to
inform  applicants  and  employees  of  the  risk  that  using  such  products  may  result  in  a
positive marijuana test.”
Applicant  passed  a  number  of  drug  tests  and  provided  the  results.  He  testified
that  he  asked  his  supervisor  if  he  was  permitted  to  use  CBD  and  was  told  it  was  not
illegal. (Tr. 47-48; AE B)
In May 2021, Applicant went back to court to have his visitation with his children
reinstated.  The  court determined  that  if  both  parties  wanted  to  see  their  children,  they
were  required  to  take  a  drug  test.  Applicant  testified  that  earlier  that  month,  he  was
attending  a  bachelor  party  in  a  state  where  marijuana  is  legal.  He  testified  he  used
marijuana at the party and was aware  that although it was legal in the state where he
was  located,  it was illegal under federal  law.  He held a security clearance  at the time.
He said it had been a stressful year due to the court proceedings, and he decided “well
I’ll just have fun one night.” (Tr. 39, 53-55, 91-92)
While  in  court,  the  judge  asked  Applicant  if  any  drug  would  be  detected  during
the drug screening. Applicant told the Court about his marijuana use earlier that month
and that he is prescribed Adderall. The judge told both parties before the drug test that if
they  did  not  testify  honestly,  they  would  be  subject  to  contempt  and  a  ten-day  jail
sentence. Applicant’s drug screen tested positive for marijuana and methamphetamine.
Applicant adamantly denied he knowingly used methamphetamine. He said he had no
idea how he tested positive for methamphetamine, but he had several theories. He said
the judge believed he had lied to him. Applicant concurred that he would have believed
the same if he saw a positive drug result. Applicant testified that the judge told him that
he needed to go to drug rehabilitation and assess his life, and he told him how to live.
Applicant  acknowledged  he  had  a  negative  attitude,  and  he  was  upset.  He  told  the
judge  “You  need to  worry  about  you.  I got me.”  Applicant  testified  that  he  was held  in
contempt of court because the judge believed he was dishonest about his drug use after
he tested positive for two illegal drugs. He served a 10-day sentence for contempt. (Tr.
55-63, 86-88; GE 2)
Applicant  testified  that  part of  his visitation  order  is  that  if  he  wanted  to  see  his
children, he had to provide a drug screen. Applicant did not have to do a drug screen if
he  did  not  plan  to  see  his  children.  Applicant  provided  negative  drug  screen  results
taken from hair follicles. This type of test is able to detect a longer period if drugs are in
the  system.  He  provided  negative  test  results  from  November  2021,  February  2022,
November  2022,  December  2022,  January   2023,  February  2023,  May  2023,  and   July
2023. (Tr. 77; AE B)
Applicant testified that he sent a group text message to his  former stepson, the
son of his ex-wife, wishing him a happy birthday. The text also went to his ex-wife. He
said he did not realize she was on the group text. She believed it was a violation of the
no  contact  ex  parte  order.  Court  documents from  November 2021  state  that  Applicant
admitted  he  was  held  in  civil  contempt  for  violating  a  no  contact  order.  He  denied  his
text had any derogatory message. (Tr. 65-75, 88-91; GE 2 page 13)
Applicant  testified  that  he  continued  to  participate  in  counseling  even  after  the
24-week  class  ended.  He  said  he  did  not  know  he  had  anger  issues  until  he  went
through  counseling. He still meets with a counselor, and they have lunch together. He
also  attends  classes  occasionally.  The  counselor  provided  a  report  that  Applicant  had
successfully  completed  the  required  session.  He  made  a  $2,500  donation  to  his
counselor’s facility. (Tr. 84-86; AE A)
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  going  through  a  difficult  time  in  his  life  when  he
was  dealing  with  an  acrimonious  divorce,  and  he  was  unable  to  see  his  children.  He
attributed his marijuana use to stress in his life. He loves and is devoted to his job. He
admitted he made a mistake. Applicant’s post-hearing statement mentioned his family’s
service  in  the military and  federal government.  He  stated he  is not  a  threat  or liability.
He  stated:  “I  refused  to  snitch  when  I  tested  positive  for  drugs  and  was  charged  with
contempt.” He further stated that he does not sell out his friends, family, or country. He
believes he has been an asset to the military community. (Tr. 78; AE C)
