Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  electronics  technician  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  November  2022.  (Tr.  15-17;  GE  1)  He  seeks  a  Secret  security
clearance, which is a requirement for his continued employment. (Tr. 17-18, 56)
Applicant received his high school diploma in May 2007. (Tr. 19) He is attending
college in pursuit of a Bachelor of Science degree in computer intellectual engineering
and  estimates  that  he  has  earned  between  90  to  100  college  credit  hours.  He
anticipates  graduating  in  December  2023.  (Tr.  19-20)  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.
Navy  in  May  2010  and  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge  under  honorable
conditions  as an Operations Specialist Second Class (OS2) (pay grade E-5) in January
2021.  The  highest  rank  he  held  was  OS1  (pay  grade  E-6),  discussed  infra.  While  on
active duty, he went on three deployments, one of which was in a hostile fire zone. (Tr.
20-22) Applicant is receiving a Veterans Affairs 90% disability rating. (Tr. 83)
Applicant  married  in  January  2017.  His  wife  is  an  active  duty  Retail  Services
Specialist First Class (pay grade E-6). Applicant and his wife have two minor children.
(Tr. 22-26)
Sexual Behavior/Criminal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  that  Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  U.S.  Navy  due  to
allegations of sexual assault by three women that occurred in or about 2018. He stated
in  his  SOR  Answer,  “I  deny  the  allegations  that  led  to  my  discharge  from  the  United
States Navy. Supporting documents enclosed.”
The  fact  that  Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  Navy  is  not  in  dispute.  His
Certificate  of  Release  of  Discharge  from  Active  Duty  (DD  Form-214)  indicates  that  he
was  discharged  from  the  Navy  as  an  OS2  in  January  2021  with  a  general  discharge
under  honorable  conditions  for  reason  of  misconduct  –  serious  offense.  (GE  2)  The
events that led up to Applicant’s discharge are discussed in further detail, infra.
SOR  ¶  2  alleged  that  Applicant  was  awarded  non-judicial  punishment  (NJP)  in
about  February 2020, under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of  Military Justice (UCMJ)
for  violating  Article  92,  failure  to  obey  a  lawful  order;  Article  107,  false  official
statements;  Article  128,  assault  consummated  by  a  battery;  and  Article  134,  indecent
conduct. He received a reduction in grade to E-5. He stated in his SOR Answer, “I deny
the  allegations  that  led  to  my  discharge  from  the  United  States  Navy.  Supporting
documents enclosed.”
In  April  2019,  three  female  sailors  (FS1,  FS2,  and  FS3)  accused  Applicant  of
unwanted  touching.  FS1  filed  the  first  complaint;  FS2  filed  the  second  complaint;  and
FS3 filed the third complaint. At the time these complaints were made Applicant and all
three  of  the  female  sailors  were  attached  to  the  same  Navy  ship.  FS1  obtained  a
military  protection  order  (MPO)  against  Applicant  in  April  2019,  and  FS2  obtained  an
MPO against Applicant a few days later. FS1 accused Applicant of watching her in the
female berthing area taking a shower in March 2019. FS1 reported this incident a week
after  it  allegedly  took  place.  All  three  female  sailors  accused  Applicant  of  unwanted
sexual  touching  such  as  groping  their  buttocks  from  June  2018  to  March  2019  and
reported the violations in April 2019. (Tr. 32-33, 57-72, 84; GE 2)
In May 2019, Naval Criminal Investigation Service (NCIS) interviewed Applicant,
and he voluntarily provided his cell phone to be examined. During this interview, he was
informed  of  the  allegations  against  him  and  who  made  the  allegations.  After  reporting
these incidents, FS1 and FS2 were transferred from the ship, but FS3 chose to remain
on the ship with Applicant. (Tr. 33-34; GE 2)
In  December  2019,  the  ship’s  legal  officer  notified  Applicant  he  was  being
awarded  NJP,  Article  15,  UCMJ.  The  legal  officer  informed  Applicant  that  the  ship’s
immediate superior in the chain of command’s opined there was not enough evidence to
warrant a court-martial and recommended that the matter be dealt with at the command
level, i.e. NJP. (Tr. 35; GE 2)
Applicant  was  charged  with  the  following  offenses  under  the  UCMJ:  (1)  Article
92, failure to obey a lawful order; (2) Article 107, false official statement; (3) Article 128,
assault consummated by a battery; and (4) Article 134, indecent conduct. (GE 2; SOR
Answer;  Tr.  73-76)  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  charged  with  Article  107  because
his  statement  did  not  align  with  the  accusations  made  against  him.  Applicant  stated,
“That was the false official statement, the club thing, like I said that I didn’t go and they
(three  female  sailors)  said  that  I  did.”  (GE  2;  SOR  Answer;  Tr.  73-75)  As  a  member
attached to or embarked on a vessel, Applicant could not refuse NJP and demand a trial
by court-martial, which would have afforded him greater rights to include, but not limited
to representation by counsel. (10 U.S.C.  § 815, Article 15) FS3 recanted her complaint
prior to Applicant’s Article 15 hearing. (GE 2)
On Wednesday, January 8, 2020, two days before Applicant’s scheduled NJP on
Friday,  January  10,  2020,  Applicant  received  notification  from  the  Defense  Travel
Service  (DTS),  that  he  was  booked  on  a  flight  Friday  afternoon  from  his  present
location,  which  was  a  substantial  distance  to  his  ship’s  homeport  location,  to  the
homeport location. On January 10, 2020, the NJP took place on board his ship with his
Commanding Officer (CO) presiding. (GE 2; SOR Answer) Applicant “pled not guilty to
everything except the videos that were AirDropped accidentally in 2018.” (Tr. 36, 76-78)
The AirDropped videos refer to a group of approximately 20 movies a shipmate
transferred to Applicant in a group transfer in early 2018. Included in that group transfer
was,  “as  the  phone  backs  out,  the  last  second  you  can  see  the  silhouette  of  a  guy’s
genitalia.”  A  female  sailor  who  observed  the  transfer  of  videos  asked  Applicant  to
forward the movies to her, which he did stating, “I was like, Sure. Select all the movies,
push  send  –  well,  the box  with the arrow.  Another AirDrop  popped  up and  I  clicked  it,
not  thinking  nothing  of  it.”  The  female  sailor  later  filed  a  complaint  with  her  chain  of
command about receiving the video with the male genitalia image and the incident was
resolved  informally  at  the  command  level.  The  incident  resurfaced  a  year  and  a  half
later at Applicant’s January 2020 NJP and was included as one of the charges against
him. (Tr. 37-40, 71-72)
Applicant  described  his  NJP  hearing.  He  stated  his  CO  did  not  ask  him  any
questions  nor  did  he  look  at  him.  His  chain  of  command  and  various  command
personnel  were  present.  None  of  the  complaining  witnesses  were  present.  Applicant
explained how the AirDrop was accidental. He was unable to call witnesses in support
of  his  case  because  they  were  no  longer  on  the  ship  or because  of  short  notice  were
unable  to  provide  supporting  statements.  His  CO  found  him  guilty  of  all  charges  and
specifications  and  awarded  him:  (1)  to  be  reduced  from  pay  grade  E-6  to  E-5;  (2)  to
forfeit one-half month’s  pay per month  for two  months  (suspended  for 45 days); (3)  to
be restricted for 45 days (suspended for 45 days); and (4) to perform 45 days extra duty
(suspended for 45 days). (SOR Answer; Tr. 78)
Applicant, who had a very successful Navy career up until that point and  was in
contention  for  Sailor  of  the  Year,  found  the  experience  very  demoralizing.
(SOR
Answer;  Tr.  26-30, 41-42) After  NJP, Applicant  was told  to  immediately  pack his bags
and was placed on a  flight to the shore command where his ship was homeported for
administrative board separation processing. (Tr. 42, 78-79)
[Note  –  MILPERSMAN  1910-233  prescribes  when  mandatory  separation
processing is required: “a. Sexual Misconduct – Lewd and lascivious acts,
rape,  sexual  assault,  stalking,  forcible  sodomy,  child  sexual  abuse,
possession  or  distribution  of  child  pornography,  incestuous  relationships,
or  any  sexual  misconduct  that  could  be  charged  as  a  violation  of  or  an
attempt  to  violate  reference  (a)  articles  120,  120a,  120b,  or  120c  [of  the
UCMJ]; or equivalent criminal statute as a result of either misconduct due
to commission of a serious offense or civilian conviction.…”]
However,  mandatory  processing  does  not  equate  to  mandatory  separation.  An
appropriate determination is made on each case based on its own merits.
On  February  6,  2020,  Applicant  appealed  his  NJP  to  the  officer  exercising
general  court-martial  jurisdiction  (OEGCMJ).  In  his  appeal,  Applicant  provided  alibis
with  corroborating  evidence  that  contradicted  the  statements  of  the  complaining
witnesses. Also included in Applicant’s appeal is a statement from a female sailor from
his  ship  who  was  familiar  with  the  complaining  parties.  She  stated  that  FS1  and  FS2
had to “change their stories so it would make sense” after Applicant produced credible
alibis  contradicting  as  to  when  the  incidents  in  question  took  place.  She  added  that
“[FS1] and [FS2] wanted to get off of the ship, by any means also. Whether it was to get
pregnant,  accuse  someone  of  something  or  to  get  “hurt”.”  See  NJP  appeal.  (SOR
Answer; GE 2; Tr. 42-44)
The  shore  command  where  Applicant’s  ship  was  homeported  convened  an
administrative  board  in  April  2020.  In  contrast  to  his  NJP,  Applicant  was  afforded
greater due process rights to include having appointed counsel to represent him and the
right to call witnesses. Applicant was informed that his NJP appeal was denied by the
OEGCMJ, “probably 15 minutes before the board (convened) that the Admiral said that
the  CO  was  in  the  best  position  to  make  that  decision,  so  she  (the  Admiral)  denied  it
(NJP appeal).” (Tr. 44-46, 79)
Due  to  Covid-related  restrictions,  in  person  board  witnesses  were  not  allowed
and  witness  testimony  was  to  be  provided  by  telephone.  Applicant  stated,  “I  was
actually notified like two minutes before we walked in that [FS3] recanted her statement.
She  wouldn’t  be  calling  in.  [FS2]  wrote  a  letter.  She’s  not  going  to  be  calling  in.
Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  see  the  contents  of  the  letter.  And  [FS1]  would  be
calling  in.”  He  further stated  during  her  testimony,  FS1  denied  that  she  said  Applicant
“came into the shower,”  which is contrary to her statement to NCIS. (Tr. 46-48, 59-63,
68-69, 71, 80)
Using  a  preponderance  of  evidence  standard,  the  following  summarizes  the
findings and recommendation of the three-member board:
is  binding  on
[Note:  MILPERSMAN  1910-514  describes  what
administrative  boards:  “1.  Policy  a.  When  processing  includes  (1)  any
court-martial conviction; (2) a civilian conviction, or finding tantamount to a
finding of guilty by a civil court system; or (3) an approved diagnosis of a
medical officer; the board may not render its own findings because these
matters  have  already  been  judicially/medically  determined  to  have
occurred. b.  Unless there are additional reasons for separation, the board
will proceed directly to the separation/retention recommendation phase of
the hearing. c.  The only exception is civil conviction from a foreign nation,
which is not binding on administrative boards.” A prior NJP is not listed as
binding on administrative boards.
Board findings  - (1) UCMJ, Article  92,  1: comments of  a  sexual nature creating
hostile  work environment: 3-0 supports  allegation; (2) UCMJ, Article  92, Specification
2: sexual harassment,  physical touching: 3-0  does  not support allegation; (3) UCMJ,
Article   92,   Specification   3:  sexual  harassment,   sending   lewd   photo:  3-0   supports
allegation;  (4) UCMJ, Article  92, Specification  4:  sexual  harassment,  physical  touching:
3-0   does   not   support  allegation;  (5)   UCMJ,  Article   92,   Specification   5:  sexual
harassment,  physical  touching:  3-0   does   not   support  allegation;  (6)  UCMJ,  Article
128,  Specification   1:   sexual  assault,  physical  touching:   3-0   does   not   support
allegation;  (7) UCMJ,  Article  128,  Specification  2:  sexual assault,  physical  touching: 3-
0  does  not  support allegation; (8)  UCMJ Article  128, Specification  3: sexual assault,
physical  touching:  3-0  does  not  support  allegation;  and  (9)  UCMJ,  Article  134,
Specification  1:  indecent  conduct,  watching  SVM  undress:  3-0  does  not  support
allegation.  The  Article  107  NJP  charges  were  not  considered  at  Applicant’s
administration  board.  (Tr.  84)  The  board  noted  in  their  findings  that  the  specific
evidence they considered were: (1) NJP admission of guilt; (2) NCIS interviews; and (3)
text messages. (SOR Answer)
Board Recommendation (Separation or retention):
By a vote of 2-1, the board recommended that Applicant be retained. In their
comments,  the  board  noted  that  the  substantiated  allegations  referred  to  the  female
sailor’s complaint regarding Applicant’s inadvertently sending a lewd photo a year and
one  half  before  complaints  were  filed  by  FS1,  FS2,  and  FS3.  The  lewd  comment
referred to a comment Applicant made to a male sailor well before the complaint filed by
the three female complainants. (SOR Answer; Tr. 48-50)
Prior  to  this  incident,  Applicant  had  never  been  accused  of  sexual  harassment,
sexual assault, or been the subject of an Equal Employment Opportunity investigation.
Before the NJP in question, he had never been to NJP. (Tr. 71-72, 80-81)
Applicant was quite relieved and felt vindicated by the board results. Post-board,
he  performed  duties  as  directed  at  the  shore  command  pending  final  review  of  the
board results by the Bureau of Naval Personal (BUPERS). (Tr. 50-51) On December 22,
2020,  Applicant  was notified  by his chain of command that  he  would  be discharged  in
January  2021,  discussed  supra.  Post-Navy,  Applicant  had  to  adjust  to  civilian  life  and
considered  his  options  to  include  attending  school  and  finding  a  new  career,  being
mindful of his obligation to his wife and two minor children. (Tr. 51-56, 81-82)
Character Evidence
Applicant submitted six character letters, all from women: (1) an active duty Navy
lieutenant  and  former  first  class  petty  officer  and  supervisor;  (2)  a  Government
contractor, former first class petty officer and Navy veteran, and friend of Applicant and
his wife; (3) an active duty Navy ensign who was the ship’s administration leading petty
officer; (4) a retired senior chief petty officer and former supervisor/mentor; (5) an active
duty Navy lieutenant (junior grade) and Applicant’s division officer and who was present
at his NJP; and (6) an active duty first class petty officer, who a member of the ship’s
administrative  division  and  was  present  at  his  NJP.  The  majority  of  these  character
references  have  first-hand  knowledge  of  the  charges  against  Applicant.  All  of  the
references lauded Applicant’s professionalism, character, and integrity. They all support
him being granted a clearance. (Tr. 84-87; AE A - F)
Applicant  submitted  his  Evaluation  Report(s)  &  Counseling  Record(s)  spanning
his Navy career. His evaluations document sustained above average performance and
are  indicative  of  a  sailor  on  an  upward  trajectory.  (AE  G  –  S)  His  personal  awards
include  three  Navy  and  Marine  Corps  Achievements  Medals  as  well  as  numerous
decorations  and  campaign  ribbons.  He  qualified  as  an  Enlisted  Surface  Warfare
Specialist.  (GE  2)  He  also  submitted  a  personal  statement  with  his  SOR  Answer
describing the impact this situation has had on him and his family. (SOR Answer)
