Applicant admitted all of the allegations in SOR. His admissions are incorporated
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony,
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 52 years old. He attended college at various times from 1990 to 2005
but  did  not  earn  a  degree.  He  married  in  2014  and  has  a  stepchild.  He  has  two  adult
children from previous relationships. He has worked for his present employer, a federal
contractor, since 2018. (Tr. 16-20)
Applicant was arrested in April 1992 and charged with robbery and conspiracy to
commit robbery, both felonies. He testified he was in college and he and a group of friends
decided to order a pizza and then steal the pizza from the delivery person and not pay.
He was with the group when two people stole the pizza and beverages and they all ran
away. Applicant ran and did not get caught but later turned himself in. He admitted it was
a dumb college stunt. He participated in a pretrial diversion program. He was required to
perform community service, pay a fine, and was on probation. He successfully completed
the  program  and  in  1996  the  charge  was  dismissed.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  these
felony charges on his January 2019 security clearance application (SCA) as was required.
He testified he was aware the charge was a felony and serious. His explanation for failing
to disclose it was he marked “no” in error. He did not know why he would mark “no” and
said he did not intentionally falsify his SCA. (Tr. 23-31; GE 1, 2, 14)
In  December  1993,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  simple  assault-physical  menace.
He pleaded not guilty and was found not guilty. He could not recall this arrest or any of
the facts. (Tr. 30-31; GE 5)
In  October  1994,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  obstructing  highways/other  public
passages. He explained that he grew up in a tough neighborhood and the police were
doing a lot of sweeps in the street. He explained that if you were outside, you would get
swept  up.  and  go  to  jail.  He  was  home  from  college  and  was  with  friends  and  was
arrested. A warrant was issued in 2007 for failing to appear for this charge. He testified
he  was  unaware  of  the  notice  to  appear  because  he  likely  went  back  to  school.  The
charge was dismissed in 2008 but Applicant does not recall the situation. (Tr. 31-34; GE
2, 6)
In July 1996, Applicant was arrested for alcohol in public, bad check, and failure to
appear.  During  his  background  investigation  he  told  the  investigator  he  had  written  a
check and intended to put money in his account to cover the amount, but he had a serious
motorcycle accident and spent three months in the hospital. When he was notified about
the bad check, he went and paid it. He said this was a separate incident from the alcohol
in public charge. He stated he was probably loitering when the police came, and he likely
had a bottle in his hand. He pleaded guilty to the alcohol in public charge. Regarding the
failure to appear charge, he said he likely did not show up in court for a previous charge.
(Tr. 35-39; GE 2, 7)
In May 2007, Applicant was arrested and charged with possession of a controlled
dangerous substance, less than 50 grams of marijuana, 5 grams of hashish. He explained
he was arrested the day after his birthday. A friend had given him some marijuana as a
present, and he was stopped by the police. He had been consuming alcohol but did not
recall how much. He was searched and forgot he had the marijuana in his pocket. When
he went to court, he said the judge was angry at the prosecutor because he or she had
made an error and did not have the required original documents to prosecute the case.
The judge dismissed the charge and told Applicant it was his lucky day, and he should
buy a lottery ticket. (Tr. 39-43; GE 8)
In  response  to  questions on  his SCA that asked  if Applicant  had  ever been  charged
with  an  offense  involving alcohol or  drugs, Applicant  responded  “no.” He testified  that  he
was  not  convicted   but   he   was   charged   so   did  not   disclose   it.   He   said   he   may   have
interpreted the  question incorrectly.  (Tr. 43-44; GE 1)
In  June  2007,  Applicant  was  charged  with  public  drinking  alcohol  prohibited.
Applicant  testified  that  this  arrest  occurred  during  one  of  the  police  sweeps  of  his
neighborhood. He and friends were drinking outside a house that was close to a liquor
store. He pleaded guilty to the offense. He believed he was required to pay a fine. (Tr.
44-46; GE 2, 9)
In   June   2012,   Applicant  was  charged   with   driving   on   a   suspended
license/registration  suspended/revoked. He testified  his license  was suspended  because
of unpaid parking  tickets.  He went to  pay the  tickets and  learned  the  tickets  belonged  to
his father who  had  a  vehicle  registered  in  Applicant’s name  and  did  not pay the  tickets.
His father had moved. Applicant paid the  tickets,  and his license  was reinstated. (Tr. 46-
47;  GE 12)
In  March  2013,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  on  a  suspected
license/registration  suspended/revoked.  Applicant  testified  he  pleaded  not  guilty  to  the
charge, and it was dismissed. He stated he did not recall if his license was suspended.
When completing his SCA, it asked if Applicant had been issued a summons, citation, or
ticket  to  appear  in  court  in  a  criminal  proceeding  against  him.  He  responded  “no.”  He
testified  that  he  did  not  know  why  he  responded  ‘no”  and  did  not  disclose  the  2013
suspended license ticket. (Tr. 47-48; GE 1, 10)
In December 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating under the
influence  of  liquor  or  drugs  and  operation  of  a  motor  vehicle  while  in  possession  of
narcotics. Applicant testified that he was intoxicated and was pulled over by the police for
failure to maintain his lane. The police searched him and found a bag of marijuana on
him.  He  was  found  guilty  of  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  or  drugs  (DUI).  His
driver’s license was suspended. He was required to attend a 20-hour alcohol information
course. This was the first time he attended an alcohol information course. (Tr. 48-52; GE
11)
In August 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI and driving while
license suspended or revoked. Applicant testified that he was drinking alcohol with friends
at a bar. He and his friend left, and Applicant was following his friend in his car to another
location. He was stopped by the police. He said he was unaware that his driver’s license
was  suspended  when  he  was  stopped.  He  learned  he  had  not  completed  the
requirements for reinstatement of his suspended license that was issued by another state.
He  said  he  took  care  of  the  requirements.  He  spent  a  couple  of  days  in  jail.  He  was
convicted  of  DUI.  He  was  ordered  to  take  two  alcohol  courses  that  required  weekly
attendance.  He  testified  he  did  not  have  a  problem  with  alcohol,  but  rather  he  had  a
problem with driving after he had consumed alcohol. (Tr. 52-56 73-74; GE 2, 14)
In November 2019, Applicant was charged with simple assault-family violence. He
was  ordered  to  attend  a  24-week  anger management  course.  He  and  his wife  had  an
argument,  and  he  tossed  a  purse  across  the  room  and  the  strap  hit  her  leg.  She  felt
threatened, called the police, and then hung up. The police arrived and he was arrested.
He  admitted  he  had  consumed  a  couple  of  beers  at  the  time.  His  wife  contacted  the
prosecutor saying she regretted her actions. Applicant’s case was nolle prosequi under a
pretrial diversion program after he completed an anger management course. (Tr. 56-58;
GE 2, 4)
In  his  March  2019  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He
confirmed the accuracy of a summary of his interview in September 2020. Applicant told
the government investigator that he drinks one beer a day and four on the weekends. He
said he does not drink and drive and instead uses an UBER for transportation. He also
said that there was a zero-chance alcohol would have a negative impact on his life in the
future. At his hearing, he said he obviously did not adhere to that promise. (Tr. 74-75; GE
2)
Applicant was asked by the government investigator about his criminal record and
if he was ever charged with a felony, been convicted of domestic violence, or charged
with an offense involving a firearm, alcohol, or drugs and he responded “no, only the DUI
charges.”  Only  upon  being  confronted  with  the  2007  criminal  charge  of  possession  of
marijuana did he admit the offense. He did not disclose the felony robbery arrest in 1992;
the  1993  simple  assault  arrest;  the  1994  obstructing  a  public  highway;  the  1996
possession of marijuana; the 2007 public consumption of alcohol; and the 2013 driving
with a suspended/revoked license arrest. These arrests were not disclosed or discussed
during his March 2019 interview. (GE 2)
In January 2020, Applicant was interviewed again by a government investigator.
He was asked if he had been arrested, charged with, convicted of, or sentenced for a
crime,  or  received  a  summons,  citation,  or  ticket  to  appear  in  court,  or  has  been  on
probation or parole. He said “yes” and said he had previously discussed all of his criminal
activity during his March 2019 interview.  That interview included his three DUI arrests,
and the 2007 criminal charge of possession of marijuana, but did not include disclosure
of the felony robbery arrest in 1992, the 1993 simple assault arrest; the 1994 obstructing
a  public  highway  arrest;  the  1996  possession  of  marijuana  arrest;  the  2007  public
consumption of alcohol; and the 2013 driving with a suspended/revoked license arrest.
When he was asked by the investigator if he had any additional criminal activity to report,
he said “no.” He did not disclose the above arrests. (GE 2)
In December 2021, Applicant was arrested for DUI, possession of an open alcohol
container and defective tires. He testified that he was going home, and his tire blew out.
He  pulled  over  and  put  on  his  emergency  flashers.  The  police  stopped  to  assist  and
smelled alcohol on his breath.  He  said he  had  consumed two  to  three  drinks.  He  was
arrested. He said the alcohol containers found in the trunk of his car were not from that
night and were trash. He was found guilty and sentenced in October 2022. He received
credit for the time he served in jail, which was about five days and a 90-day jail sentence
that was suspended. He was required to go to DUI school and be evaluated. He testified
he did not receive a diagnosis from the evaluation. He is also required to take another
course on drugs. He said he is currently registering for the course. He received a fine of
$2,600 that he pays in installments. He is required to complete 120 hours of community
service. He has completed about 28 hours. He was required to wear an ankle bracelet for
three months in 2022 that detects alcohol consumption. He is no longer required to wear
the bracelet. When he completes the drug course, he can have his license reinstated on
a restricted basis to drive to and from work. He is required to have an interlock installed
on his car. He is on probation until October 2024. He is to abstain from alcohol while on
probation.  He  meets  with  his  probation  officer  monthly.  He  is  required  to  abide  by  the
terms of his probation. He testified that he has not consumed alcohol while on probation.
(Tr. 59-72; GE 3, 13)
Applicant  disclosed  in  his  SCA  that  he  used  marijuana  from  1990  to  2016  and
wrote, “recreational occasional 5.” He testified that he does not know what he meant by
“recreational occasional 5.” During his background interview he told the investigator that
he  used  marijuana  three  times  a  month.  At  his  hearing,  he  said  he  did  not  know  how
accurate that statement was. He admitted that he has used marijuana since completing
his January 2019 SCA. He was asked when his last use was, and he said he consumed
an edible marijuana in 2021 and another time in 2022. He also acknowledged he was on
probation when he consumed the edible marijuana in 2022. He consumed it while at a
family  reunion.  He  said  he  no  longer  smokes  marijuana.  It  is  unknown  if  his  use  of
marijuana is a violation of the terms of his probation. (Tr. 75-82; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  told  the  government  investigator  that  he  continued  to  associate  with
people who use illegal drugs. At his hearing, he testified that he now tries not to associate
with people who use drugs. (Tr. 80-82; GE 2)
Applicant  was  asked  at  his  hearing  why  he  failed  to  disclose  his  felony  arrest,
domestic  violence  arrest,  alcohol  arrests  and  drug  arrests.  He  denied  he  intentionally
falsified his SCA. He said he did not remember a lot of his past. He said he did not have
any  idea  why  he  did  not  disclose  them  on  his  SCA  or  when  he  was  questioned  by  a
government investigator. He said at the time he did not recall certain offenses. He said
he was not trying to hide anything from the government. (Tr. 82-84)
Applicant testified that he has regrets his past, and he wants to move on. He is
remorseful for his past conduct. He has had personal issues that he has taken care of.
He stated that if it is determined that he needs additional treatment he will follow through.
He believes the anger management class he completed has helped his marriage. (Tr. 21,
84-85)
