Applicant's admissions in his Answer are incorporated in my findings of fact. After
a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a twice divorced 44-year-old employee of defense contractor. He has
an adult-aged son from his first marriage. He married again in 2013 and separated from
his second spouse in May 2017. The divorce was final in 2019. There are two minor-aged
children from his second marriage.  There were also two stepchildren from the second
marriage. (Tr. at 121-122; GE 1 at 36-38) He was granted a security clearance in 2008,
again in 2011, and again in July 2015. (GE 2 at 52; Tr. at 123.)
SOR ¶  1.a:  August 2021,  charged  with  driving while  license  suspended. In his
Answer, Applicant denied the charge, as to the date listed, but admitted the underlying
conduct.  He  stated  that  mitigating  circumstances  applied.  He  noted  the  underlying
incident, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c, occurred over five years ago. He acknowledged that his
driving  privileges  had  been  suspended  in  another  state,  after  he  pled  guilty  to  driving
under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  He  said  that  he  had  failed  to  satisfy  all  the
requirements of his sentence, which included documenting that he had completed a court-
ordered program and paid the required processing fee. (Tr. at 169.) His suspension was
flagged  by  his  home  state’s  department  of  motor  vehicles  (DMV),  which  resulted  in
suspension of his home state driver’s license. He took the steps necessary to  reinstate
his driving privileges in the state where he had received the DUI. (Tr at 77.) He then was
able to go to his DMV and get his license reinstated. (Tr. at 169.) He stated he was never
informed about the license suspension in his home state because the notice had been
returned  to  the  DMV  as  undeliverable  by  the  U.S.  Postal  Service.  (Tr.  at  77-78.)  The
charge  was  dismissed  without  prejudice  on  December  3,  2021,  after  he  provided  the
necessary paperwork (Tr. at 78; AE G.)
SOR ¶  1.b: January  2018, charged with  Breaking and Entering;  Assault and
Battery;   and   Abduction,   and   convicted  of   Assault  and   Battery   and  sentenced  to
one  year  of   imprisonment   (with   ten  months   suspended)   and   probation.   In  his
Answer Applicant admits being charged but disputes the accuracy of the charges while
acknowledging full responsibility for his inappropriate actions, which resulted in him being
indicted by a grand jury for a Class 5 Felony (Abduction) and  a Class 1 Misdemeanor
(Domestic  Assault  and  Battery).  (GE  7  at  6-7.)  He  pled  guilty  to  the  Class  One
Misdemeanor,  Domestic  Assault  and  Battery,  and  was  sentenced  to  12  months
confinement,  with  10  months  suspended.  (GE  7  at  8-9.)  He  was  allowed  to  serve  the
unsuspended  portion  of  his  confinement  on  the  weekends.  (Tr.  at  164.)  He  asks  that
mitigating circumstances be considered. (Answer at 4.)
After almost  three  years  of  separation  from his  spouse  he  entered  her home  in
hopes  of  catching  her  with  another  man  whom  he  believed  to  be  a  drug  dealer.  In  a
statement to a deputy sheriff, he acknowledged that he knew he was not welcome in the
home and that it was a poor choice to try to go upstairs to find the man. (Tr. at 154-156;
GE 4 at 15-16; GE 13 at 4, 5.) His spouse tried to stop him.  (Tr. at 154) He stated he
never laid his hands on her. “She grabbed on to my belt and went for the ride. And …I
had so much adrenaline going through me, I carried myself and her, with her dragging up
(sic) the stairs with her holding on to my belt or my clothing or whatever it was, and – all
the way into the bedroom where she let go after we entered the door.” (Tr. at 160.) His
spouse and stepdaughter described him as dragging her upstairs by her wrists. (GE-13
at 4.) After verbally confronting the man, he left his spouse’s home. Applicant attributed
bruising on his spouse’s wrists to their rough sex that they had engaged in earlier in the
day and to her anemia that  caused her to bruise easily. (Tr. at 158.)
He was arrested and held in jail for six days. (Tr. at 161.) He testified that he had
never laid a hand on his wife and had never raised his hand to a woman. (Tr. at 160.) He
explained that he only pled guilty to avoid possibly being sentenced to 20 years in prison
and to have a chance to gain  custody of his children, which he did. (Tr. at 168.) He stated:
“So yes, I did plead guilty to it. But did I do it? No, I did not. That's that fine gray area in
life that, you know….” (Tr. at 168.)1
SOR ¶¶  1.c  and 2.a: February  2017, charged with  DUI;  DUI  with  Blood Alcohol
Content   over  .15;   Evading;   and   Hit  and   Run  Property   Damage.  Convicted   and
sentenced  to   one  day   of   imprisonment;   three   years   of   probation;   forty  hours  of
I note: “The doctrine of collateral estoppel generally applies in DOHA hearings and precludes applicants
from contending that they did not engage in criminal acts for which they were convicted. ISCR Case No.
95-0817 at 2-3 (App. Bd. Feb. 21, 1997). There are exceptions to this general rule, especially with respect
to misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas. Relying on federal case law, the Appeal Board has
adopted a three-part test to determine the appropriateness of applying collateral estoppel to misdemeanor
convictions. First, the applicant must have been afforded a full and fair opportunity to litigate  the issue in
the criminal trial. Second, the issues presented for collateral estoppel must be the same as those resolved
against  the  applicant  in  the  criminal  trial.  Third,  the  application  of  collateral  estoppel  must  not  result  in
“unfairness,” such as where the circumstances indicate lack of incentive to litigate the issues in the original
trial. ISCR Case No. 04-05712, (App. Bd. Oct. 31, 2006).” This  allegation falls  into the  exception. I have
applied the exception with respect to misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas.
community   service;  required  to   attend  a   three-month  first  offender  class;   and
license  suspended for one year. In his Answer Applicant admits that he was charged
with these four misdemeanors and takes full responsibility for his actions, which occurred
on the night his oldest son informed him that his wife was having an affair. (Answer; Tr.
at  91;  GE  1  at  43-45.)  He  notes  that  he  reported  the  incident  promptly  to  his  security
manager  and  the  accident  resulted  in  no  injuries  and  very  little  property  damage  to  a
barrier.
At the hearing he explained that he decided to  drink hard liquor instead of beer
and  when  the  bar did not  have  his  preferred  brand  of  rum,  he  was  served  rum  with  a
higher alcohol content. He said, “I did not know that” the rum had a higher alcohol content.
He stated that he ended up “getting inebriated” and drove into a vehicle barrier. He was
stopped  and  arrested  by  a  sheriff’s  deputy.  (Tr.  at  91-92.)  He  pled  guilty  to  DUI.  His
license was suspended for one year. He had to pay fines, court costs, attend a substance
abuse program, and do 40 hours of community service, which he said that he completed.
(Tr. at 92.)
During his security clearance interview he told the investigator that he had been
drinking  with  a  friend  he  had  made.  He  stated  that  his  friend  had  invited  him  to  his
residence  for a  social  gathering  and  that  he  had  consumed  a  mixed  drink.  He  did  not
recall any additional information about the night due to blacking out. He stated  that he
became aware of his surroundings when he woke up in jail. (GE 4 at 8.)
He said that he does not “drink any kind of liquor whatsoever” and if he does have
any kind of alcohol, “it is a couple beers, and that is it.” He added that he drinks by himself
in  the  privacy  of  his  “own  home” except  for  at  company  events  where  he  drinks  to  be
social. (Tr. at 93.) He vowed that he would not drink and drive again. (Tr. at 94.)
SOR  ¶  1.d: April  2013,  charged with  Possession of  Marijuana, Possession of
Drug  Paraphernalia,  and Speeding. In his Answer Applicant admits being charged but
denies  committing  the  offenses.  He  said  that  he  pled  guilty  to  an  improper  equipment
violation. (GE 2 at 43.)
Applicant was pulled over for speeding. When the state trooper asked  to search
his  vehicle,  he  consented.  (Tr.  at  94.)  He  acknowledged  that  he  had  told  the  security
clearance  investigator  in  his  2017  interview  that  the  state  trooper  said  he  smelled
marijuana  in the  car and  requested to search  the  vehicle.  (GE-2  at  42-43;  Tr. at 144.)
Applicant said that he did not smell marijuana because he had suffered multiple broken
noses and was a heavy smoker. He described the trooper’s discovery “as like the smallest
little  thing  in  a  little  bag,  is  what  the  police  officer  pulled  out.”  (Tr.  at  95.)  The  trooper
reported detecting a strong  odor of marijuana  after pulling  Applicant over for speeding
and that Applicant told him that the marijuana was in the center console of the vehicle.
The trooper retrieved a glass bowl containing marijuana with a cork and a glass pipe. (GE
12  at  1.)  Applicant  said  that  after  he  returned  from  the  work  assignment,  another
employee admitted that the marijuana and drug paraphernalia belonged to him. (Tr. at
95.)  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  denied  possessing  marijuana  since  1999.  (Tr.  at  110.)
Ultimately  the  charges  were  voluntarily  dismissed,  and  he  was  cited  for  a  nonmoving
violation, improper equipment. (AE N; Tr. at 96.)
SOR ¶¶   1.e  and 2.a: April  2006, charged with DUI; failure  to  stop at the  scene
of   an  accident,  and   refusal  of   breathalyzer.   Convicted  of   the   lesser   offense   of
reckless   driving;   required  to   pay   a   fine;   and   a  six-month   driver’s   license
suspension. In his Answer Applicant admits the allegation and takes full responsibility
for this incident. In mitigation, he cites that the incident is over 16 years old and occurred
during a fifth-year anniversary celebration with his first wife where he and his wife were
harassed by a group of 10 individuals. The group assaulted him, and he and his wife fled
the area in his car. They were chased by this same group and after the group departed,
he was picked up for driving under the influence.
At the hearing, he testified that his first spouse had been driving and wrecked the
vehicle. He said that he had been prepared to fight the charges, but his lawyer suggested
that he just take the plea deal. (Tr. at 99.) He pled guilty to protect his wife from having to
go through the legal process. (Tr. at 99.) When asked by his counsel, “Were you drinking
and driving on April 2006?” he stated “No, I was not.” (Tr. at 111.)
Applicant’s wife told the police that Applicant was driving the vehicle because she
was not good with a manual transmission and that he had been attempting to get away
from a group that was trying to fight him. She described Applicant as losing control of the
vehicle at an intersection and striking a tree. Applicant told the responding police officer,
that he had been trying to get away from a group of males to protect his wife and himself
and had lost control of the vehicle while attempting to evade the group of men. (GE 11 at
4.) He explained to a police officer that he left the scene of the accident to call the police
and that he had only consumed two twelve-ounce beers. (GE 11 at 4-5.) The police officer
noted the strong smell of alcohol from Applicant, that the vehicle’s airbags had deployed,
that the  driver’s side  airbag  had  blood  on  it, and that Applicant “was bleeding from his
head.” (GE 11 at 4.)2
SOR ¶¶   1.f and 2.a: March 1999, charged  and convicted of  DUI  (under  21)
and possession of  marijuana,  and required to  pay  a  fine, attend counseling;  and
had  his   license   suspended  for  approximately   6   months.  In  his  Answer  Applicant
admits the allegation, takes full responsibility for this incident and cites the length of time
2  I note:  “The  doctrine of collateral  estoppel  generally  applies  in DOHA  hearings  and  precludes  applicants
from  contending  that they  did not engage in criminal  acts  for which they  were convicted. ISCR Case No.
95-0817  at 2-3 (App. Bd. Feb. 21, 1997). There are exceptions  to this  general  rule, especially  with  respect
to  misdemeanor  convictions based o  n  guilty pleas. Relying  on  federal  case law, the  Appeal Board has
adopted  a three-part test to determine the appropriateness of applying  collateral  estoppel to misdemeanor
convictions. First, the  applicant must have been afforded a full  and fair  opportunity  to litigate  the  issue  in
the criminal trial. Second, the issues presented for collateral  estoppel  must be the same as those resolved
against  the  applicant   in   the  criminal   trial.  Third,  the   application   of  collateral   estoppel   must  not  result  in
“unfairness,”  such as  where  the  circumstances  indicate  lack  of incentive to litigate the  issues  in the original
trial.   ISCR  Case  No.  04-05712,  (App.   Bd.  Oct.  31,   2006).”   I   have   applied  the  exception   with  respect  to
misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas.
since  this  incident  as  well  as  the  mitigation  steps  he  has  taken  since  the  incident  in
January 2018. (Answer at 9.)
At the  hearing  he  explained   “I was hanging  out with  the  wrong  crowd,  and  I  -- I
had,  I think it was like  a  beer. Not  even  a   beer. I don't remember because  it was a  big
bottle but  I didn't drink  it all. So  it was just,  I had  a  couple  drinks off of it. But we drove
afterwards.” He  could not remember why   he   was pulled  over but   blamed  the  police   for
pulling  him  over on  the  basis  of  “…being  suspicious  because  it was  like  1  in  the morning
or something  like  that.  In  [...  County], back then  that was suspicious  if  you  were  driving  at
1:00  in  the  morning  in a  small  county.” (Tr.  at  102.)  He pled  guilty and  lost  his license  for
a year. He  stated  that he  was required  to  go to counselling  and  submit to “drug tests and
all  that stuff…. I think I ended  up  having  to  do  two  days in  jail or three  days in jail  because
I failed a  drug test.  Again, young, dumb, and  full of it.” (Tr. at 102-103.)
SOR  ¶¶   1.g   and  1.h:   In  June  1998,   charged   with   simple   possession   of
marijuana  (Federal juvenile),  convicted  and sentenced to  probation. As  a  result of
failing  several   mandatory   drug  urinalyses   during   probation,   sentenced  to
approximately  three  days  of  imprisonment.  In approximately  May  1997, you were
charged  with   Possession  of   Paraphernalia   and  convicted.   (Tr.  at  13)  After  the
Government’s  amendment,  Applicant  admitted  the  incidents  and  discussed  the  two
events together. At the hearing he stated, “I got caught with a marijuana roach, probably
a 32nd-of-a-gram of weed,” which was the paraphernalia charge. He described the other
incident as “…the MPs sneak attacked us in the middle of the night. And I was the only
military person there, military dependent there out of 12 people. And so I was arrested for
possession of marijuana. And there was -- they found all kinds of marijuana in the woods,
but -- so I was -- I got -- everybody there, when we went to court, pointed the finger at
[Applicant]. I was the only one with pot. How funny that works. So I took that charge, and
I did that.” He acknowledged failing a mandatory drug test required as part of his sentence
and having to serve time in jail. (Tr. at 105, 106.)
SOR  ¶   1.i:   In  approximately   March  1996,    charged  with   Possession  of
Marijuana  with  Intent  to  Distribute,  convicted  and sentenced  to  probation, which
included  a   substance   abuse   program.  During  probation,
sentenced  to
approximately   two  days   of   imprisonment   as   a   result  of   failing  a   mandatory
urinalysis.   (Tr.  at  13.)  In  his  Answer  Applicant  admits  the  conduct  and  takes  full
responsibility for his actions. (GE 1 at 30.) At the hearing he admitted to being arrested
for possessing a quarter pound of marijuana. He was charged with intent to distribute. He
acknowledged his arrest in his 2008 SCA and in his 2008 subject interview. He admitted
providing marijuana to friends but denied dealing drugs. (Tr. at 126.)  He described his
response to his sentence as “I did everything but complete it successfully. I believe that I
had to do two days in jail because I failed a drug test.” (Tr. at 110.)
SOR ¶  1.j: In  February  1994,   charged with and convicted of  Possession of
Marijuana  and  sentenced to  probation.  (Tr. at 13.) In his Answer Applicant admits to
the possession and takes full responsibility for his juvenile conduct. (GE 1 at 31.) At the
hearing  he  confirmed  his  security  clearance  interview  that  he  was  arrested  for  having
about a gram of marijuana in his possession. (Tr. at 124.) He blamed his actions on trying
to make new friends because he was new to the area. (Tr. 125.) He cited the decision-
making of a young person, who did not realize what he was doing, for his actions. (Tr. at
108.) He admitted he “went to all these classes and all that stuff. And obviously, it didn't
work for me because I was again young and dumb” referencing SOR ¶ 1.i. (Tr. at 109.)
I  found  Applicant's  responses  and  demeanor  at  the  hearing  inconsistent  with
someone who was reliably telling the truth. Inconsistencies between his testimony, prior
pleas of guilty, statements to the police and background investigators. and other evidence
in the record including witness accounts further undermined his credibility.
Applicant  offered  the  testimony  of  two  work colleagues,  as  well  as  his  father,  a
retired senior enlisted member of the U.S. Air Force. The witnesses were very credible.
They detailed their familiarity with Applicant and events in Applicant’s life that had set him
back. The witnesses understood the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct and
circumstances surrounding the conduct of Applicant. They expressed their confidence in
Applicant’s ability to maintain a security clearance. (Tr. at 26-29; 36-41; 48-57.)
