Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 29 years old. He earned an associate degree in 2014 and a bachelor’s
degree in 2016. He has never married and has no children. After graduating college, he
worked part-time until he found full-time employment in October 2017. His annual salary
was  about  $30,000  to  $34,000.  In  February  2019,  he  began  working  for  his  present
employer and earns about $54,000 annually. He also works a part-time job five days a
week, three hours a day, earning $13.00 an hour. (Tr. 16-20; GE 1, 2)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in 2018 and another
in January 2021. He did not disclose any delinquent debts or loans on his 2021 SCA. He
was interviewed by a government investigator in February 2021. He did not voluntarily
disclose he had delinquent student loans until confronted with them by the investigator.
He told the investigator that he was unaware they were in collection. He said he would
contact the creditor and make payment arrangements. (GE 1, 2)
Applicant credibly testified that when he completed the SCA he believed that the
financial  section  that  inquired  about  delinquent  debts  was  referring  to  mortgages,  car
loans, and other consumer debts. He did not associate his student loan as being in the
same category. He did not ask for assistance or clarification about the questions being
asked. He testified that he did not intentionally fail to disclose the student loans and other
debt alleged in the SOR in his SCA. (Tr. 21-26)
Applicant financed his education with student loans and grants.  He testified that
he did not remember how he received his student loans, because he was playing a sport
at college, but confirmed the loans were used to pay for college. He was confused about
how he obtained the loans. The student loans are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.j and
total  approximately  $55,904.  He  testified  that  he  contacted  the  creditor  in  about  2017
about repaying the loans. The creditor advised him to pay $128 a month. Applicant could
not afford to pay that amount at the time. He did not contact the creditor again. Applicant’s
student loans are now deferred due to the pandemic. (Tr. 21-26, 40-59; GE 3-7)
Applicant made one payment of $128 in approximately May 2019. He could not
recall why he made that payment but assumed it was because he had some extra money.
He testified that he looked at his Credit Karma statement and the student loan accounts
were  reported  as  closed.  He  believed  because  they  were  closed,  he  was  no  longer
responsible for paying them  and did not need to disclose them on his SCA. He further
testified  that  after  he  received  the  SOR,  he  believed  that  at  his  hearing  he  would  be
provided  financial  guidance  in  formulating  a  payment  plan  to  resolve  his  delinquent
student  loans.  He  said  he  never  thought  to  contact  the  creditor  to  make  a  payment
arrangement after his initial inquiry or to inquire about the status of the loans. He never
thought to ask his facility security officer or anyone else for help in understanding how to
resolve  the  issues  raised.  He  said  he  did  not  understand  that  his  student  loans  were
considered debts. (Tr. 21-29, 44-59)
The SOR alleges a small debt (¶ 1.k - $48) that Applicant said he was unaware of.
He  has  not  contacted  the  creditor  or  made  attempts  to  resolve  this  debt.  Again,  he
believed he would be provided financial guidance at his hearing on how to resolve  the
financial issues raised. (Tr. 28-29, 53; GE 3-7)
Applicant  testified  that  he  pays  his  bills  on  time.  Six  months  ago,  he  started  a
budget  to  keep  track  of  his  expenses  and  payments.  He  has  about  $30  in  his  bank
account. He estimated that he spends about $300-$400 on non-essential expenses, such
as restaurants, dates, and playing golf about once a month ($60 green fees). He has not
received any financial counseling. After the record closed, Applicant provided a receipt to
show he made a payment of $150 toward his student loan. (Tr. 30-40, 59-61; AE A)
