Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in April 2005 and divorced in March 2009. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 34) He
remarried in November 2012 and has three children from this marriage (ages eight, six
and  six).  (GEs  1-3;  Tr.  86).  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering in  December 2000. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 29) He reported no military service.
Since  January  2001,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  as  an  electrical  engineer.  (GEs  1-3)  Previously,  he  worked  for  another
employer  in  a technical support position.  He  has held a  security  clearance  since  June
2003. (GEs 1-3)
Applicant’s drug history
Applicant was introduced to marijuana in college. (GE 8; Tr. 30) He estimates to
have  used  marijuana  intermittently  between  1997  and  2001.  His  use  of  marijuana
typically  made  him  “feel  happy  and  hungry.”  (GE  8;  Tr.  31-32)  Concerned  about  the
potential  for  testing  positive  after  accepting  a  position  with  his  current  employer,
Applicant ceased using marijuana. (GE 8)
While   on   a   camping   trip   in  another   state  in  May   1997   with   college   friends,
Applicant’s friends supplied  him  marijuana,  which  he  used  with  them  on  the  trip. (GE 8)
Typically,  he  paid approximately  $15.00  for “one  hit,”  which  he  placed  in his mouth. (GE
8)  When   interviewed   by  an   investigator   from   the   Office   of   Personnel  Management
(OPM)  in May 2003, he  told the   investigator  that he  no  longer associates  with  anyone
who   uses  drugs  and   has  no   “future   intentions  of  using   any  illegal  substance.”   (GE   8)
For reasons, he  cited his concerns over succumbing to  irresponsible  behavior that could
expose him to risks of losing  his job. (GE 8)
Between 2001 and 2008, Applicant avoided illegal drugs and persons who used
them (inclusive of marijuana) altogether. (GE 7) In September 2008, Applicant resumed
his  use  of  marijuana,  in  this  case  on  a  camping  trip  with  his  cousin  in  a  neighboring
state that at the time legalized the use of the substance for medicinal purposes. (GE 7;
Tr. 33-34) Going through a divorce at the time, Applicant was burdened with stress and
anxiety  and  did  not  consider  the  consequences  of  his  actions.  (GEs  2-3  and  7)  He
retained  a  small amount  of  marijuana  for a  little  over  a  year  and  “smoked  it  1-2  times
per month during that duration.” (GE 2)
Thereafter,  Applicant  abstained  from  marijuana  use  for  over  10  years  before
resuming his use of the drug in September 2018. (GE 6; Tr. 40-41) While under work-
related stress and anxiety, Applicant resumed his use of marijuana with his same cousin
between  2018  and  2020:  twice  in  2018  and  once  in  2020  (GE  6;  Tr.  41-42)  Applicant
has  never  been  physically  addicted  to  marijuana  and  is  fully  familiar  with  federal  laws
that ban the use of marijuana. With a better understanding of symptoms of stress and
anxiety  through  his  consultations  with  his  engaged  therapist,  he  assured  that  he  is
currently  better  situated  to  deal  with  these  symptoms  with  developed  coping
mechanisms  and  avoid  marijuana  when  navigating  future  stress  situations.  (GE  6;  Tr.
53-55)  He  fully  understands  and  appreciates  the  mistakes  he  made  in  turning  to
marijuana  to  address  his  past  stress-related  issues  while  holding  a  security  clearance
and the potential consequences he faces should he slip again in the future. (AEs A and
E; Tr. 57-60)
Applicant’s  submissions  include  a  signed,  sworn  statement,  pledging  to  remain
free from all drugs, including marijuana, and refrain from any and all substance abuse.
(AE A) In his statement, he fully acknowledged that any future involvement with drugs or
misuse  of  the  same  will  be  grounds  for  revocation  of  his  security  clearance  and  any
national security eligibility. (AE A; Tr. 83)
Applicant’s 2023  pledge to refrain from illegal drug use  (inclusive of marijuana),
while  encouraging,  is not  the  first time  he  has  pledged to  refrain  from  possessing and
using illegal drugs (both explicitly and implicitly). He made a similar pledge to avoid any
future use of marijuana in an OPM interview in 2003. (GE 8)
Further,  in  an  e-QIP  Applicant  completed  in  March  2010,  he  acknowledged  his
purchase  and  use  of  marijuana  one  to  two  times  a  month  between  2008  and  2009
during a difficult time for him and assured he no longer possessed or controlled illegal
drugs.  (GE  3)  In  a  follow-up  interview  with  an  OPM  investigator  in  May  2010,  he
acknowledged again his purchase and use of marijuana in 2008-2009, and assured he
was no longer in possession or control of illegal drugs and stopped “cold turkey” using
illegal drugs in October 2009. (GE 7)
In his own statement, Applicant traced his growth in a rural farming community to
his college schooling, and to  his post-college acceptance of a position with his current
employer.  (AE  E)  He  described  his  current  marriage  and  separation  and  joint
commitments to their “kids’ lives and activities,” while looking for ways to reconcile their
relationship.  (AE  E)  Applicant  detailed  the  active  hobbies  of  his  children  and  himself.
Historically,  he  has  enjoyed  many  hobbies  (inclusive  of  computers  and  technology,
woodworking,  gardening,  cooking,  camping/outdoors,  hunting,  auto
repair  and
restoration,  and  motorcycles).  (AE  E)  He  cited  to  a  strong  family  military  heritage  and
his  own  unique  skills  and  capabilities  that  have  enabled  him  to  design  and  build
computing and processing systems for future military fighting platforms.  (AE E) For all
of his contributions to the U.S. fighting force, he remains “very proud.” (AE E)
With  his  wealth  of  experience  in  the  defense  industry  and  more  recent  2023
pledge to avoid all illegal drugs (inclusive of marijuana) in the future, Applicant is entitled
to  considerable  credit.  His  recent  pledge  of  sustained  abstinence  is  encouraging  and
worthy  of  acceptance  as  a  sincere  reflection  of  his  current  thinking.  Because  of  his
failures  in  keeping  similar pledges  in  the  past,  assigning  weight  to his  latest pledge  of
abstinence  will  require  adjusting  to  account  for  his  failed  prior  pledges  of  future
abstinence. Based on Applicant’s historical accounts of his marijuana use and repeated
to  abstain,  additional  corroborating  proofs  (inclusive  of  an
failed  assurances
assessment from a licensed substance abuse counselor) are needed to fully validate his
most recent pledge of sustained future abstinence.
Endorsements and performance evaluations
Although  currently  separated  from  his  wife,  he  and  his  spouse  are  working
seriously to reconcile. His spouse is fully supportive of his continuing efforts to manage
his  stresses  and  anxieties  without  resorting  to  marijuana.  (Tr.  86)  Applicant’s  spouse
characterized him as hilarious and genuine, and a person who is both brilliant and kind
to people.  (Tr.  86-87)
Applicant’s  wife  herself  held a  clearance  between 2002  and 2016, and again  in
November  2022.  (AE  E;  Tr.  87)  She  credited  Applicant  with  being  active  in  his
community  with food donations and Little League coaching. (Tr. 88)  And, she assured
that she has never smelled marijuana on Applicant before or harbored suspicions of his
“getting high” with his cousin. (Tr. 90)
Applicant is highly  regarded  by his senior managers. (AEs G-H; Tr. 93-97, 104-
106)  Although,  none   of  these   references   professed   to   have   any  knowledge   of
Applicant’s past use  of  marijuana.  Applicant is credited  with  superior contributions to  his
employer’s defense  missions for the rated years of  2016 through 2022. (AEs B  and F)
