The  SOR  alleged  security  concerns  about  Applicant’s  alcohol  use  and  alcohol-
related criminal activity that occurred between 1991 and 2017. In his Answer, Applicant
admitted  the  SOR  allegations,  but  he  denied  that  they  establish  a  basis  to  deny  him
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  Based  on  Applicant’s  admissions,  his
testimony, and the evidentiary record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant,   age   57,  is  unmarried   without  children.  He  has  been   in  a   relationship
analogous to  marriage  with  his girlfriend  for the  greater part of 20  years. He received  a
Bachelor of Science  degree  in  electrical engineering  in  1987. He  has been  employed  by
the same  defense contractor since 1987. He  worked in an electrical engineering position
for several years before transitioning  into  his  current systems engineer position. He  has
maintained  a  security clearance  since  about 1987.  (AE  B; GE  1; GE  2  at 7-8; Tr. at 9, 21-
22, 61-63)
1991 charge
In about August 1991, while alone at a nightclub, Applicant consumed beer in an
amount  he  could  not  recall.  He  denied  that  he  drank  to  the  point  of  intoxication  or
impairment. While driving home from the nightclub, a police officer stopped his vehicle for
a traffic infraction in a construction zone. He was arrested after failing a field sobriety test.
A preliminary breath test registered his blood alcohol content (BAC) as “something  like
0.05” percent. He refused to submit to a breathalyzer test. (GE 1; GE 2 at 6-7; GE 5 at
14; Tr. at 23-28, 74-78)
In November 1991, Applicant pled guilty and was convicted of operating a vehicle
while impaired. He was sentenced to 15 days in jail (all suspended), one year supervised
probation,  and  fined  $150.  He  was  also  ordered  to  complete  an  alcohol  education
program and to attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings. (GE 1; GE 5 at 14; Tr. at
27-28, 54)
Applicant  found  that  the  alcohol  program  (consisting  of  “some  meetings”  and
education  on  the  “dangers  of  alcohol  and  stuff  like  that”)  and  the  AA  meetings  were
“useful.” He refused to submit to a breathalyzer test due to concerns that it could “possibly
hurt” him. He attributed the traffic infraction to his confusion about the cones and signage
in  the  construction  zone,  and  not  to  his  alcohol  use.  He  recalled,  “I  definitely  didn't
consider myself drunk or anything like that.” (Tr. at 25, 27, 75-77)
2005 charge
In about September 2005, while alone at home watching a football game, Applicant
consumed  beer in an amount  he  could not  recall.  He  estimated  that  he  drank  “a  few.”
After  the  game  ended,  about  midnight,  he  drove  to  buy  more  beer  so  that  he  could
continue drinking to celebrate his team’s “come-from-behind” win. An officer stopped his
vehicle after observing it swerve on the road. He was arrested after failing a field sobriety
test. He did not recall his BAC. (GE 1; GE 2 at 6; GE 5 at 15-16; Tr. at 28-34, 78-81)
In  February  2006,  Applicant  pled  guilty  and  was  convicted  of  driving  while
intoxicated.  He  was  sentenced  to  180  days  in  jail  (175  days  suspended),  one  year
supervised  probation,  and  fined  $1,100.  He  was  also  ordered  to  attend  an  alcohol
treatment program and a victim impact panel. (GE 1; GE 5 at 15-16; Tr. at 31-32, 81-82)
Applicant spent two weekends in jail. He attended the alcohol program for “several
weeks,” during  which  he  learned  about  the  “dangers of  alcohol both  to  your health, as
well as being . . . very dangerous when driving after drinking.”  The family members of
drunk-driving  accident  victims  comprised  the  panel  he  attended.  He  acknowledged,  “I
should have realized I was not okay to drive,” and stated, “I guess I was just too excited.
I mean, I wasn’t okay to drive.” (Tr. at 32, 34, 80)
2013 charge
In November 2013, while alone on a day-hike, Applicant consumed beer that he
carried in his backpack, in an amount he could not recall. He estimated that he drank “at
least three” during an eight-hour period. While driving home from the hike after sunset,
he crashed into a curb on the side of the road. A police officer arrived on the scene and
arrested him after he failed both a field sobriety test and a breathalyzer test. (GE 1; GE 2
at 6; Tr. at 34-39, 82-83)
In  February  2014,  Applicant  pled  guilty  and  was  convicted  of  driving  while
intoxicated with a BAC over 0.20 percent. He was sentenced to 180 days in jail (160 days
suspended), fined $500, and his driver’s license was suspended for 12 months. He was
also ordered to complete an alcohol safety action program (ASAP). (GE 1; GE 3 at 2; GE
5 at 12; Tr. at 36-38, 82-83)
Applicant  remembered  being  “surprised”  by  his  BAC.  He  stated,  “I  didn’t
understand  how  it  could  be  that  high.”  He  could  not  recall  his  specific  BAC,  but  he
estimated it “wasn’t way over” 0.20 percent. (Tr. at 38, 83)
Applicant spent 10 days in jail. He successfully completed ASAP, which consisted
of 26 weeks of “level 0.5 DUI education” and “group psychotherapy,” in June 2014. During
intake, he agreed to abstain from alcohol while in ASAP. The record did not address any
aftercare recommendations he may have received upon discharge. Although he could not
recall for sure,  he  conceded  that he  was “most likely”  advised to abstain from drinking
after discharge. (GE 2 at 9-10; Tr. at 51-54, 97)
2016 charge
In October 2016, Applicant was involved with law enforcement while out of state
on a hiking trip with his girlfriend. One evening, after a day of hiking, they “had a real big
argument” that carried over into the next morning, while in their hotel room. Because the
argument was “real loud,” a housekeeper or fellow guest called the police. The argument
ended  by  the  time  the  police  officer  arrived.  After  questioning  both  parties,  the  police
officer arrested Applicant. (AE B; GE 1; GE 2 at 6; Tr. at 39-46; Tr. at 84-86)
In August 2017, Applicant pled guilty to three misdemeanors: domestic violence
(DV) assault, intoxication, and DV unlawful detention. After holding his plea in abeyance
for an unspecified period, the court dismissed the charges. The terms of the abeyance
required him to undergo a DV assessment, complete any recommended DV treatment,
and pay a $780 fine. His assessment did not recommend any DV treatment. He was not
ordered to seek alcohol counseling. (GE 1; GE 2 at 6; GE 3 at 3-4; Tr. at 42-44)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  consumed  alcohol  (“a  few  beers  or  so”)  during  the
period leading up to his arrest. He recalled that he “probably drank”  in the park during
their hike; drank “a bit” that night because he was upset; and “did get a beer” the following
morning “just to start feeling better,” because he “wasn’t feeling very well.” However, he
denied  that  he  was  intoxicated  or  unlawfully  detained  his  girlfriend.  He  acknowledged
that,  while  arguing  that  morning,  he  may  have  grabbed  his  girlfriend’s  arms  to  defend
himself.  However,  he  denied  hitting  or  otherwise  assaulting  his  girlfriend  at  any  point,
either during the argument, or ever. He has remained in a long-term relationship with this
same girlfriend. In a post-hearing letter, his girlfriend corroborated that he has never been
violent towards her and referred the incident as “an unfortunate situation” that “incorrectly
assigned”  fault  to  him.  Applicant  and  his  girlfriend  asserted  that  he  was  wrongfully
arrested and attributed his arrest to the  state’s strict DV laws, and  to  the  police  officer
deeming Applicant a danger and threat due to his intoxicated appearance. (AE B; GE 2
at 6; Tr. at 40-44, 57, 84-86)
2017 charge
In  April  2017,  while  at  home  alone,  Applicant  consumed  beer  in  an  amount  he
could not recall. He estimated that he drank “somewhere around three” in the immediate
hour or two before he left home. While driving to his girlfriend’s home, his vehicle stopped
operating due to a mechanical failure. He believes someone may have called the police
due to his inebriated state. A police officer arrived on the scene and arrested him because
he  smelled  of  alcohol  and  failed  a  field  sobriety  test.  He  refused  to  submit  to  a
breathalyzer test. (GE 2 at 5-6, 7; GE 5 at 1-11; Tr. at 46-50, 87-89)
In August 2017, Applicant pled guilty and was convicted of driving while impaired
by alcohol. He was sentenced to 60 days in jail (all suspended), one year probation, and
fined $600. He  was  also  ordered to  attend  an  alcohol education  program  and a  victim
impact panel. Due to his refusal to submit to a breathalyzer test and to install an ignition
interlock device (IDD) on his vehicle, his driver’s license was suspended for nine months.
(GE 2 at 5-6, 7; GE 5 at 6-7; Tr. at 49-50)
Applicant completed the alcohol program on an expedited basis before sentencing
as a good-faith gesture, upon the advice of counsel. Between June and August 2017, he
completed 26 hours of comprehensive alcohol education and awareness programming.
Upon  intake,  he  was  characterized  as  a  “problem  drinker”  based  on  test  scores  that
“clearly  indicated  there  is  a  serious  alcohol  problem.”  During  intake,  he  was  strongly
advised  to  abstain  from  using  alcohol.  The  record  did  not  address  any  aftercare
recommendations he may have received upon discharge. Although he could not recall for
sure,  he  conceded  that  he  was  “most  likely”  advised  to  abstain  from  drinking  after
discharge. (GE 2 at 5-6, 11-18; Tr. at 54-56, 88, 97)
The alcohol program’s director opined that Applicant “benefited from programming
and organized and increased his understanding of the need to avoid alcohol and other
drugs, further studied their negative effects on driving, one’s self, one’s family and one’s
society.”  The  director  also  remarked  that  Applicant  took  the  program  “seriously”  and
“worked hard,” as evidenced by his “voluminous handwritten notes.” (GE 2 at 16-17)
Applicant maintained that he refused the IDD because he was not driving a vehicle
at  the  time.  He  travelled  to  work  via  public  transportation  because  his  vehicle  was
unrepairable after the mechanical failure. He recalled that he “felt good and everything”
and “didn’t feel impaired” when he left home to drive to his girlfriend’s home. However, he
acknowledged that he should not have driven after drinking. (GE 2 at 7; Tr. at 87-88)
Applicant has only undergone alcohol treatment when court ordered. Although he
never voluntarily sought out alcohol treatment, he recognized that it was important for him
“to reduce or quit [his] drinking.” He could not recall any voluntary cessation from alcohol
use,  between  1991  and  2017,  except  as  mandated  by  the  courts  during  his  probation
periods. However, he stated, “[t]here may have been.” He does not attend AA meetings
because  he  finds it “very uncomfortable” to speak in front of groups. Instead,  he  reads
books on how to overcome “drinking problems,” from which he has learned the dangers
of alcohol and its negative health effects. (Tr. at 54-58, 59, 73-74, 88-90, 95, 99-102)
Alcohol Use
Applicant  first described his history of alcohol use during his June 2018 subject
interview. He first consumed alcohol at the age of 17, while in college. During college, he
consumed about three to five beers at a time, in social settings, during weekends and on
special occasions. As he grew older and his tolerance for alcohol increased, the amount
he consumed increased, but he only drank on the weekends. He would sometimes drink
to  intoxication,  which  he  defined  as  six  beers.  He  described  his  behavior  under  the
influence of alcohol as uninhibited. He admitted that he had a problem with alcohol. He
acknowledged that his alcohol use negatively impacted his relationship with his girlfriend,
due  to  increased  arguing.  He  denied  that  his  alcohol  use  impacted  his  work,  but  he
expressed concerns about his ability to maintain his security clearance. He attributed his
criminal activity to his alcohol use, and he maintained that there was no possibility of a
recurrence because he stopped drinking in October 2017. He credited his court-ordered
alcohol classes with helping him to abstain. (GE 2 at 7)
At the hearing, Applicant attributed his cessation from drinking in October 2017 to
the negative impacts it had on his life, which he defined as the drunk-driving charges and
related loss of driving privileges. He could not recall the amount he was drinking prior to
October  2017,  but  he  acknowledged  that  it  was  “definitely  too  much.”  Applicant  was
unsure  for  how  long  he  maintained  his  sobriety  after  October  2017,  but  he  estimated
“several months.” At some point, he resumed  consuming alcohol on  the  weekends. He
could not recall what prompted him to resume consuming alcohol, but he stated, “I think
maybe I was at an event with alcohol and I probably . . . started slow . . .”  He thought it
was okay to drink again because he  was doing  well and  believed  that drinking  “a little”
would  not  cause  him  harm  or  any  issues.  He  never  drove  after  consuming  alcohol
following his 2017 charge. (Tr. at 54-59, 60, 90-95, 98, 101-102)
Applicant could not recall the amount that he “normally” drank when he consumed
alcohol, he estimated that it was “a few beers” at a time. On occasion, he consumed other
types of alcohol.  He  clarified  that,  when he described himself as  intoxicated,  which he
redefined as three beers, he did not mean “super drunk or anything like that,” just “high
enough blood levels to be intoxicated.” (Tr. at 28-29, 73-75, 78, 101)
Applicant stopped consuming alcohol as of January 2022, which was also the last
time he drank to the point of intoxication. He denied that his abstinence since January
2022  was  prompted by  concerns about  his security  clearance.  He  stated,  “I had  to  be
ready to do that. And, it wasn’t until January [2022] that I was ready.” He  attributed his
abstinence since January 2022 primarily to his past “negative experiences” and “all the
problems it’s caused” him, concerns about his health, and to his girlfriend not wanting him
to drink. (AE B; Tr. at 54-60, 90-95, 98, 101-102)
On the occasions when Applicant had been in environments where people were
consuming alcohol since January 2022, he was “okay just drinking soft drinks.” Although
he  did  not  “normally”  think  about  or  crave  alcohol,  those  environments  “sometimes”
caused him to do so. His girlfriend’s alcohol consumption “doesn’t really bother” him. He
does not “normally” have alcohol in his home, where his girlfriend resides with him part
time, except “maybe a special event for her.” Recognizing that stress was a contributing
factor  to  his  drinking,  he  has  learned  alternative  ways  to  manage  his  stress  without
consuming alcohol, including hiking and photography. (Tr. at 63, 103-104)
To  Applicant’s  knowledge,  he  has  never  been  diagnosed  with  an  alcohol  use
disorder. However, he described himself as an alcoholic, which he defined as “[b]asically
not having control over your whole life. I mean, there is . . .  alcohol is just causing . . .
issues in your life that you can't control.” He defined those issues as “all those arrests and
stuff.”  He  acknowledged, “once  you're  an  alcoholic,  you're  always  an  alcoholic.”  In
professing how his commitment to sobriety is different now than in 2017, he stated,
Well, my intention is not to start again because that's where . . . it gets . . .
once you start, then . . . you can't really control it. So the important thing is
not to restart. So I intend not to restart again.” (Tr. at 59, 95, 97, 99-100)
Whole Person
Applicant  expressed  pride  in  maintaining  a  high  level  of  work  performance
throughout his 35-year career. He asserted, “I never had any issue at work or anything
on  account  of  my  alcohol  use.”  His  employer  issued  a  special  recognition  to
commemorate his 35-year anniversary milestone. In congratulating him and lauding his
work ethic, his supervisor described him as a “dedicated, detail oriented employee with a
strong technical background.” (AE A; Tr. at 60)
Applicant acknowledged that he never reported any of his arrests to his  security
officer, knowing that he was required to do so. He was concerned that he would lose his
job if he reported them. He also never disclosed his arrests to his supervisor or anyone
else at work. His security officer only knew of the arrests in connection with his review of
Applicant’s SCA before it was submitted. His security officer filed an incident report about
his 2017 charge, based upon Applicant’s SCA disclosure, not because Applicant reported
it to him directly. (Tr. at 68-70)
After  the  hearing,  Applicant’s  long-time  girlfriend  submitted  a  letter  praising
Applicant’s character and work ethic. She opined that he is a “100% changed man.” She
corroborated that, as of May 2023, he had been “totally free from alcohol and drama for
more than a year.” She believed that he consumed alcohol “to relax and relieve the stress”
associated her medical diagnosis and several deaths in their families, including his father
in 2006; his mother, her father, and her nephew in 2020; and his nephew in 2021. (AE B)
