Applicant is a 37-year-old aircraft painter with a defense contractor (Company A).
She has worked for Company A since March 2022. She is single and has a bachelor of
fine arts degree. This is her first application for a security clearance and the first time she
has worked for a defense contractor. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and
25; Tr. 15-17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because she has used illegal drugs. She admitted all the allegations under this paragraph
with explanations.
1.a  and  1.c. Applicant used marijuana in edible form between about 2008 and June
2022. She would use it as a sleeping aid and to help with anxiety. From 2008 through
2020 she used it about ten times. Her use increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. She
would purchase it from dispensaries between 2020 and 2021. Such purchases are legal
in the state where Applicant resides (State One). She stopped using marijuana in January
2022, before her employment began with Company A. Soon after her employment began,
she came down with Covid-19. She admits that she used marijuana edibles twice in June
2022 to attempt to sleep and recover from Covid. She understands that her conduct was
foolish and has repeatedly stated that she has no intent to use marijuana in the future.
(Answer; Government Exhibit 1 at Section 23; Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 14-26.)
1.c. Applicant used hallucinogenic mushrooms on an infrequent basis while hiking
with friends between 2020 and August 2021, before she began working for Company A.
She no longer uses mushrooms on hikes and does not intend to use them in the future.
(Tr. 28-30.)
1.d.  Applicant  states  that  she  is  a  rule  follower,  understands  the  proscription
against marijuana and mushroom use while holding a security clearance, and has evinced
a  credible  intent  not  to  use  any  illegal  drugs  in  the  future.  She  submitted  a  signed
statement of intent stating that the future use of illegal drugs is grounds for revocation of
her security clearance. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 26-28.)
Mitigation
Applicant is a  successful  performer as  shown  in her initial year-end  review. Her
supervisor  states,  “[Applicant]  has  good   values  and   a   high   work  ethic,  and   she
understands  and   adheres  to   company  standards,   conduct  policies  and   procedures.
[Applicant]  demonstrates a  great can-do  attitude  and  drive  to  be  a  key player and  bring
more value  to  the  . . . team.” (Applicant Exhibit B.)
