Applicant is 28 years old.  He is not married and has no children.  He has a high
school  diploma  and  two  years  of  college.  He  is  currently  employed  as  a  Heavy  Line
Diesel  Mechanic  for a  non-government  company.  He  is applying  for  a  position  with  a
defense  contractor  who  is  currently  sponsoring  him  for  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his potential employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  eleven  creditors  which  include
collections, charge offs, and past-due accounts totaling approximately $26,000.  In his
answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  delinquencies.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  December  10,  2022;  June  8,  2023,  and  August  22,  2023,  confirm  this
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant  is   a  self-taught   mechanic  since   the   age   of  13.    He  began   working
professionally  as  a   mechanic   about   10   ½   years  ago.    Over  the   years  he   has
accumulated   extensive   experience   and   has  recently  completed   formal  training   with
Honda.   His current  financial situation  is tight.  He often  brings home  about $2,000  bi-
weekly  after taxes.   With  his regular monthly expenses  of  rent  in the  amount  of  $1,965,
food, utilities,  as well  as repair expenses for a  truck  his father gave him that needs work,
he   has   little  discretionary  money.    He   has   $200   in   a   savings  account,  $2,800   in   his
checking account, and  $2,500 in his retirement account.
Since late 2020, or early 2021, Applicant has been employed full time, however
he  has  changed  jobs  and  worked  for  several  employers  with  an  effort  to  find  stability,
In  October  2022,  he  received  an  offer  of
better  pay,  and  opportunity  for  growth.
employment with a defense contractor dependent on his security clearance.  Applicant
completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  November  14,  2022.  This  is
Applicant’s first time applying for a security clearance.
Applicant  stated  that  in  2019  when  the  COVID  shutdown  began  and  became
worse through 2020, his ability to work and earn a living was significantly impacted.  In
2019,  he  was  furloughed  from  his  job  with  Honda  for  about  two  months  without  pay.
This forced him to open credit card debt to simply survive.  This paid for his rent, food,
and other living necessities.  His monthly bills that  he  had always paid on time before
COVID became delinquent and owing.  Following the furlough, he was let go because
there was not enough  work.   He was then  unemployed  for about a  month.   In  total, he
was without employment for about five  months.  (Tr.  p. 42.)
The following delinquent debts became delinquent and are of security concern:
1.a.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  that  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $9,849.  This  was  a  dirt  bike/motorcycle  that  Applicant  leased  from  a
dealership.  The  payments  were  $183  monthly.  Applicant  made  the  monthly
payments  until  late  2021,  when  work  slowed  down,  and  he  could  no  longer  afford
them.  He  has  not  made  a  payment  in  about  a  year.  Applicant  intends  to  pay  the
debt as he wants to keep the motorcycle.  (Tr. p. 27.)  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount
of $5,167.  This is a credit card that Applicant opened in 2017 and used to pay rent,
health insurance, food, and the essentials to survive.  (Tr. p. 29.)  In late 2021, work
slowed  down,  and  he  stopped  making  payments  on  the  account.  Applicant  stated
that about two months ago, he made a couple of $400 payments.  The debt remains
owing.
1.c.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $4,043.  This is a pay pal account or credit line that Applicant
obtained  in  2019.  He  initially  used  the  money  to  pay  for  his  hobby  involving  RC
helicopters, and ultimately had to use it to help pay for rent and living expenses.  He
has not made a payment for about a year.  (Tr. p.31.)  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount
of $1,878.  This is a credit card used for living expenses.  Applicant has not made a
payment on it for about a year.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.e.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount
of $1,324.  This is a credit card used for living expenses.  Applicant has not made a
payment on it for about a year.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.f.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $1,140.  Applicant  stated  that  this  was  a  “buy  now,  pay  back  later”
program.  He  used  the  money  to  purchase  several  car  parts.  The  debt  remains
owing.  (Tr. p. 32-33.)
1.g.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $919. Applicant stated that this was a “buy now, pay back
later” program.  About two years ago, he purchased parts for his car and a couple of
hobby items and has not been able to pay  the debt.  (Tr. p. 32.)  The debt remains
owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $827.  Applicant  stated  that  this  was  a  “buy  now,  pay
back  later”  program.  About  two  years  ago,  he  purchased  parts  for  his  car  and  a
couple of hobby items  and  has not been  able  to  pay the  debt.   (Tr. p. 32.)   The  debt
remains owing.
1.i.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  was  charged  off  in  an
amount  unknown.  Applicant  stated  that  this  was  a  small  loan  he  took  out  in  the
amount of $400.  He has not been able to pay  the debt.  The debt remains owing.
(Tr. p. 36.)
1.j.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  was  past  due  in  the
approximate amount of $207 with a total balance of $341.  This is a  credit card he
used  to  purchase  tools  he  needed  for  work  in  2021  and  2022.  He  stated  that  he
made  a  payment  on  the  account  about  five  and  a  half  months  ago  through
autopayment.  (Tr. pp.  37-38.)
1.k.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  was  past  due  in  the
approximate amount of $244 with a total balance of $1,879.  This is a credit card he
used to purchase tools and other items he needed for work.  He stated that he made
a  payment  on  the  account  about  five  and  half  months  ago  through  autopayment.
(Tr. pp. 38-39.)  The debt remains owing.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant completed a security clearance application dated November 14, 2022.
(Government  Exhibit  1.)
In  response  to  Section  26,  regarding  his  Financial  Record,
Applicant  was  asked  if  any  of  the  following  happened?  .  .  .  “In  the  past  seven  years
have you had bills or debts turned over to  a collection  agency?  .  . .  In  the past  seven
years have you had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for
failing  to  pay  as  agreed?”  Applicant  answered,  “No.”  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  the
delinquent debts set forth above in subparagraphs 1.a., through 1.k.
Applicant gave several excuses for not answering the questions accurately.  He
stated  that  he  did  not  know  the  status  of  his  accounts,  nor  did  he  have  all  of  the
information  he  needed  to  answer  the  questions  accurately.  He  stated  that  he  did  not
have  the  resources  necessary  to  gather  the  information  and  so  he  checked,  “No”,  in
response  to  the  questions.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  know  that  he  could  explain  or
make comments about his situation on the application.  He also stated that he did not
understand the questions.  (Tr. pp. 39-40, 46-48, and Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
