Applicant  is  54  years  old.  He  is  divorced  after  30  years  of  marriage,  but  still
cohabitating with his ex-wife.  He has no children.  He has a high school diploma and
technical school in the field of electrical and industrial controls.  He is employed with a
defense contractor as a Reliability Engineer.  He is applying for a security clearance in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR  identified  ten  delinquent debts  that  have been charged off, placed for
collection,  or  are  past  due  mortgage  accounts,  totaling  approximately  $96,000.
Applicant  also  has  an  unpaid  judgment  filed  against  him  for  approximately  1.5  million
dollars.  Applicant admits to each of the delinquent accounts  listed in the SOR.  Credit
Reports  of  Applicant  dated  May  27,  2022;  and  March  16,  2023,  confirm  the
indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from December 1986 to January
1990.  He then joined the Navy reserves where he served for three years.  He received
an  honorable  discharge.  While  in  the  military  he  held  a  security  clearance  without
incident.
After leaving  the  military, Applicant worked  a  few  jobs and  then  in  1994, got  into
an  electrical  apprenticeship  which  allowed  him  to  work and  go  to  school.   He also  took
classes  in  industrial  controls.    In  1996,  he   decided   to   start  his  own  company  doing
industrial controls.   By  1998,  he  decided  to  start a  partnership  business venture with  a
friend  he  met  in   the   Navy,  who  married  his mother and   who   became  Applicant’s   step-
father.  The  business was successful  from  1998  until 2017,  when  Applicant was forced
to   close   the   doors.    As  a   result  of  the   downturn   in  the   economy,   Applicant’s   business
partnership   venture,  followed   by  a   period   of  self-employment,   caused   Applicant   to
become  delinquently   indebted   and   unable  to   pay   his debts.    Applicant  started   working
for   a   defense   contractor  in   April  2022,   and   a   month   later,   he   applied   for  a   security
clearance.   He currently earns  about $162,000 annually.
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR remain owing:
1.a.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $25,682.  This was Applicant’s personal credit card that he used
to  finance  his  self-employment  after  closing  his  business.  Applicant  stated  that  his
mother  is  currently  divorcing  her  husband,  (Applicant’s  ex-business  partner)  and  that
she has asked to obtain control of the court judgment against Applicant.  If so, she plans
to  vacate  or settle the  debt  with  Applicant.   Once  this happens,  Applicant stated  that he
may file  for Bankruptcy and  discharge  his debts.   The  debt remains owing.   (Tr. p. 53).
1.b.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount of $21,646.  This was Applicant’s personal credit card that he used to finance
his  self-employment  after  closing  his  business.  Applicant  stated  that  his  mother  is
currently  divorcing  her  husband,  (Applicant’s  ex-business  partner)  and  that  she  has
If  so,  she  plans  to
asked  to  obtain  control  of  the  court  judgment  against  Applicant.
vacate  or  settle  the  debt  with  Applicant.  Once  this  happens,  Applicant  stated  that  he
may file for Bankruptcy and discharge his debts.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 55).
1.c.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $11,382.  This was Applicant’s personal credit card that he used
to  finance  his  self-employment  after  closing  his  business.  Applicant  stated  that  his
mother  is  currently  divorcing  her  husband,  (Applicant’s  ex-business  partner)  and  that
she has asked to obtain control of the court judgment against Applicant.  If so, she plans
to vacate or settle the debt with Applicant.  Once this happens, Applicant stated that he
may file for Bankruptcy and discharge his debts.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 56).
1.d.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount of $2,894.  Applicant stated that he took out a personal loan  in the amount  of
$6,000  to  cover  moving  expenses.  He  could  no  longer  make  the  payments.  The
account remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 56-57.)
1.e.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $1,668.  This was a Home Depot credit card that Applicant used
for business items.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 57.)
1.f.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $367.  Applicant stated that he is not exactly sure what the debt
is for and he has not attempted to resolve it.  The debt remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 59.)
1.g.   A  delinquent  mortgage  account  was  reported  as  past  due  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $30,688.  This  is  for  Applicant’s  primary  residence  which  was
going  to  be  foreclosed  upon.  Applicant  contacted  the  lender  and  has  set  up  a
repayment  agreement.  Applicant  stated  that  since  August  2022,  he  has  followed  the
terms of the repayment agreement and has reduced what he owes on both the first and
second loans on the property to about $77,000.  (Tr. p. 60.)
1.h.   A  delinquent  mortgage  account  was  reported  as  past  due  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $1,324  with  a  balance  of  $2,022.  This  was  a  mortgage  on  a
home Applicant owns in Alaska.  He stated that he has paid the debt in full.  (Tr. p. 26.)
1.i.  A delinquent  credit  card debt  was reported as past due  in the approximate
amount of $632, with a balance of $3,588.  This is Applicant’s business credit card that
he has not paid.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 61.)
1.j.  A  judgment  was  filed  against  the  Applicant  in  2017  in  the  approximate
amount of $1,511,304.  Applicant was sued by his business partner, who was a friend of
the Applicant’s he met in the Navy; who is a year older than Applicant; and who married
Applicant’s mother.  Applicant and his partner operated a business together from 1998
to  2017.  Applicant’s  partner  sued  Applicant  for  breach  of  fiduciary  duty  claiming  that
Applicant  was  improperly  paying  or  running  his  personal  expenses  through  the
company.  There was no formal agreement between the parties.  Applicant performed
all  of  the  industrial  control  work  and  his  partner  or  stepfather,  did  electrical  work.
Applicant explained that  from the beginning he worked full time and much harder than
his partner, who worked only part-time and did less difficult jobs, working only when he
wanted to.  Applicant also generated most of the clientele base for the company.  (Tr.
pp. 36-45.)
In 2010, Applicant caught his mother stealing from the company.  When she was
supposed  to  be  helping  out  by  doing  the  “books”,  and  was  showing  that  the  company
was  paying a vendor for  something,  she was  actually  writing a check  to herself or her
husband, Applicant’s business partner.  Over the  years the  company  prospered,  but  it
took a significant hit during the economic slowdown in 2008, and business significantly
decreased.  At this point, debts mounted and grew out of control.  Applicant stated that
he  worked  single  handedly  to  pay  off  the  company  debt,  and  he  tried  to  keep  the
business open for as long as he could.  In 2017, Applicant closed the business.  (Tr. pp.
35-45.)
Applicant denies that he has ever done anything wrong in handling the business
affairs.  To defend himself in litigation, Applicant hired an attorney, which cost him about
$70,000 over a six-month period.  He then hired a second attorney to review things, and
was  told  that he  had  a  simple  accounting  case  and  needed  an  accountant.  Applicant
ran  out  of  money  before  being  able  to  do  more,  and  his  attorney  walked  away.
Applicant stated that he  does not have the money to pay the judgment and he has no
intention of paying it.  (Tr. pp. 51-52.)
Applicant  explained  that  his  mother  is  currently  divorcing  the  man  who  was  his
business  partner.
If  his  mother’s  divorce  results  in  her  getting  control  of  the  court
judgment against him, Applicant’s mother has agreed to vacate it or settle it against the
Applicant.  Applicant  stated  that  he  will  then  do  the  right  thing  and  take  out  a  second
mortgage on his house in Alaska and make offers with his creditors to settle the debts.
(Tr.  p.  57.)  At  this  time,  however,  there  is  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that
Applicant has done anything to resolve his delinquent debt.
Applicant  was  self-employed  as  a  Control  Systems  Integrator  from  2017  until
November  2021,  when  he  broke  his  hip,  and  was  unable  to  work.  He  had  no  one  to
cover for him and he lost his customers.  He eventually stumbled upon the job he now
has.
