In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the allegations under Guidelines J, G, and
H,  in  the  SOR  with  some  explanation.  He  failed  to  address  the  allegations  under
Guideline  E,  which  are  cross  allegations  previously  alleged.  I  will  adopt  Applicant’s
admissions  to  the  cross-alleged  allegations  as  his  response  to  the  Guideline  E
allegations as well. His admissions are adopted as findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful  review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is   27   years  old.   He   is   married   for  the   second   time.  He   served   in   the
U.S.  Marine   Corps   from   approximately   2015   to   2019   when   he   was  administratively
separated   with   a   general  discharge   as  further  explained,   infra.  He   has  worked   for   a
defense  contractor  since  June  2020.  He  has two  biological children  and  a  stepchild.  He
is a high  school graduate  and has taken some college courses.  (Tr. 6, 25-27; GE  1)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged Applicant was charged in January 2021, with
illegal discharge of a firearm, intoxication, and with carrying a dangerous firearm under
the influence of alcohol. He entered a plea in abeyance agreement and was sentenced
to pay fines and fees, and a term of 12 months’ probation. He was required to abstain
from  alcohol  consumption  during  his  probation.  In  about  September  2018,  Applicant,
while  serving  in  the  Marine  Corps,  was  charged  with  wrongful  use  of  controlled
substances  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ).  As  a  result  of  this
investigation, he was administratively separated from the Marine Corps and received a
general discharge. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b)
Under Guideline G, the SOR alleged Applicant was required to attend an alcohol
education  class  in  March  2019.  It  also  cross-alleged  the  firearm-alcohol  arrest  from
January 2021. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.b)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  steroids  from  September
2016  to  April  2017,  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  It  also  cross-alleged  the
September 2018 UCMJ offense. (SOR ¶¶ 3.a-3.b)
Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged the allegations from SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b,
and 3.a. (SOR ¶¶ 4.a-4.c)
Criminal Conduct.
Applicant  testified that he was using steroids  while on active duty in  the Marine
Corps  for  about  six  weeks  in  2016-2017.  He  testified  that  he  had  access  to  classified
information  at  the  time  of  his  use.  He  admitted  in  his  August  2020  security  clearance
application  (SCA)  that  he  used  steroids  from  September  2016  to  April  2017.  He
obtained  the  steroids  from  another  Marine.  He  claimed  that  he  began  using  steroids
because  he  was  concerned  about  being  able  to  meet  the  required  physical  fitness
standards of the Marine Corps. He also received advice from former Marines whom he
considered mentors. They recommended using steroids. He stated that he has not used
steroids since this time frame. (Tr. 24-25, 31, 33-35, 40; GE 1)
While  Applicant  was  investigated  and  interviewed  by  the  Naval  Criminal
Investigative  Service  (NCIS)  for  his  steroid  involvement,  there  is  no  evidence  that  he
was charged under the UCMJ. He admitted receiving an administrative discharge with a
general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions  characterization  related  to  his  steroid
involvement. (Tr. 25; GE 1, 4)
Alcohol Consumption.
When  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  NCIS  regarding  his  steroid  abuse,  he  also
admitted  drinking  approximately  10  beers  the  previous  weekend  at  a  housewarming
party. This information was related to Applicant’s command who ordered him to attend
alcohol-education classes. Applicant attended the classes. (GE 2; Answer to SOR).
The  second  alcohol-related  allegation  involves  Applicant’s  criminal  arrest  in
January 2021. He stated that he and his family were at a friend’s apartment complex to
celebrate New Year’s Eve. The apartment complex was in a residential area. There was
a  vacant  field  close to the apartment  complex  that  Applicant described  as about  three
miles long. He and his friend had been drinking alcohol that evening. At approximately
midnight, Applicant and his friend fired a small caliber rifle into the air three to four times
to celebrate the new year. A neighbor called the police and Applicant was cited for gun
and alcohol violations, upon which he later entered a plea agreement, supra. (Tr. 36-37;
GE 1-3, 6-7)
Drug  Involvement and Substance Misuse.
As  stated  supra,  Applicant  admitted  illegal  steroid  use  sometime  between
September 2016 and April 2017. He was an active-duty Marine then and had access to
classified information. His use, while a Marine, resulted in his administrative discharge
with a general discharge. He stopped using steroids in 2017. (Tr. 24-25, 31, 33, 35; GE
1)
Personal Conduct.
The  factual  background  for  the  personal  conduct  allegations  have  been
previously described and will not be repeated here.
Applicant’s Mitigation.
Applicant  presented  his  2021  year-end  performance  review  and  his  2022
midpoint review. He is described as an effective team player. He makes an outstanding
contribution to the team’s productivity. He documented that he complied with the terms
of his probation and his 2021 gun and alcohol charges were dismissed. He testified that
he has had no further involvement with law enforcement since his January 2021 arrest.
(Tr. 44; AE A-B)
