Applicant, 38, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company since
January 2021. He completed a security clearance application, his first, in October 2021.
In  response  to  Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity,  he  disclosed  using
marijuana between June 1998 and October 2021.  He explained that he used the drug
“recreationally,  sometimes  for  a  few  days  in  a  week.”  He  also  admitted  that  he  would
abstain  from  the  drug  for  a  month  or  months  at  a  time.  He  indicated  his  intent  to
continue  using  the  drug  to  alleviate  work-related  stress  and  in  social  settings  with  his
friends. (GE 3)
In a February 2022 subject interview, Applicant confirmed the disclosures in his
security clearance application, that he began using marijuana in June 1998, and that he
intended to continue using the drug. He also confirmed that his use was ongoing at the
time  of  the  interview,  reporting  that  he  smoked  a  marijuana  cigarette  once  or  twice  a
week  to  relieve  stress.  The  drug  is  legal  in  his  state  of  residency,  and  he  reported
purchasing it from state-sanctioned dispensaries. Applicant explained to the investigator
that  had  not  experienced  negative  consequences  from  his  marijuana  use.  He  did  not
believe that doing so had any negative affects his personal or professional life.  (GE 4)
In response to DOHA interrogatories signed March 22, 2023, Applicant provided
additional information about  his  marijuana use.  He  confirmed  he  used  marijuana once
or  twice  a  week  through  March  2023,  and  that  he  purchased  the  drug  on  multiple
occasions between March 2001 and July 2022. However, he claimed that he first used
marijuana  in  high  school  in  approximately  1999  or  2000,  not  in  June  1998  while  in
middle school, as he previously reported. Contrary to his previous statements, he stated
that he intended to abstain from future marijuana use because continued use limited his
career advancement opportunities. (GE 4)
Applicant  has  not  been  referred  to  substance  abuse  counseling  by  a  court,  his
family, or any medical professional. He does not consider his use of marijuana to be a
potential source of vulnerability because his wife is aware of it. (GE 4)
