In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations,  with
explanations, except for the allegation in SOR ¶ 3.a, which he denied. His explanations
for the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c, and 2.d amount to denials, and I have considered
them as such. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 26-year-old forklift operator employed by a defense contractor since
June 2016. He has never married. He has served in the U.S. Army Reserve (USAR) since
January 2016. His military job is culinary specialist. He received an Army Achievement
Medal in March 2019. (AX H) He has held a security clearance since October 2015. (Tr.
5, 16; GX 10). He needs a security clearance to enter the shipyard for his civilian job. (Tr.
16)
In 2014, while Applicant was in high school, one of his friends who was with him
grabbed another person’s laptop. Applicant and his friend ran away, but they were later
detained and charged with felony larceny. Because Applicant was a juvenile, the felony
charge was nolle prosequi, and he was placed on probation for six months and required
to apologize and pay restitution. (Tr. 29-30) This incident was not alleged in the SOR.
In 2015, while Applicant was still in high school, he was with a friend who started
throwing rocks at a girl. Applicant testified that he did not throw any rocks, but he was
charged with assault and battery and required to appear in court. In November 2015, the
charge was dismissed on “request of petitioner.” (AX B) Applicant enlisted in the USAR
in  August  2015,  but  his  active  duty  for  basic  training  was  delayed  until  the  case  was
resolved. This incident was not alleged in the SOR.
In  March 2017,  while Applicant  was on  active  duty,  he  attended  a  gun  show  and
attempted   to   purchase   a   firearm.  When   he   filled   out  the   criminal  consent  form   for  his
background  check, he  answered  “No” to  a  question  whether he  had  ever been  arrested
for  a   felony.  He  did  not  disclose   his  arrest  for  felony  larceny  in  2014.  Based   on   this
omission, he  was charged with  making a false statement on a firearm consent form.  (GX
5)  In June 2018, the charge was dismissed. (GX 4 at 9) When  Applicant was questioned
by  his   platoon   sergeant,   he   told   him   that   he   had   misunderstood   the   question.  At  the
hearing, Applicant testified  that  he  thought  the  2014  incident was “cleared” and  he  was
not  required   to   report  it  on   the   criminal  consent  form.  (Tr.  37)  Applicant’s  USAR
commander was informed of the felony charge, Applicant’s explanation, and  the ultimate
dismissal  of   the   charges.  His  commander  told  the   battalion   security  manager  that  he
wanted  to  keep  Applicant in the  unit and  wanted  Applicant to  keep  his security clearance.
(GX  10; AX  A)  This incident  is alleged  in  SOR ¶  1.a. In  Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR,
he  admitted  that he was charged  with  a felony,  and  he  apologized for his negligence.
In September 2019, Applicant was charged with speeding 82 miles per hour (mph)
in a 60-mph zone. The charge was amended to speeding 71 mph in a 60-mph zone, an
infraction. (GX 5 at 3) He pleaded guilty and was fined $66. This incident was not alleged
in the SOR.
In  October 2019,  Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while intoxicated
(DWI) (1st  offense)  and  reckless driving.  He  was driving  at  night in  the  rain,  and  he  ran  off
the  road  and  hit a  light pole.  He testified  that he  had  not been  drinking, but he  failed  a
field sobriety test because  he  could not recite  the  alphabet backwards. Two  breathalyzer
tests failed  to  detect alcohol. (Tr. 40-41) He went to  trial, was represented  by an  attorney,
and  was  found not  guilty  of both offenses. (GX  5  at 7)  This  arrest  for DWI  was  alleged  in
SOR ¶  1.b, and  Applicant admitted  it in  his answer.  The  charge  of reckless driving  was
not alleged in the  SOR.
In  July 2020,  Applicant  was  charged  with driving  44 mph  in  a 30-mph  zone,  an
infraction.  Disposition  was  deferred  and  the  charge  was  dismissed  in  December  2020
(GX 5 at 9) This charge was not alleged in the SOR.
In   August   2020,   Applicant   was   charged   with   assault   and   battery   involving   his
girlfriend  at the  time. They began  arguing  while they were in  his car.  When  they got out
of  the   car,  the   girlfriend   threw  a   drink  at  him   and   tried   to   slap   him.  He  went  into   the
girlfriend’s house  to  retrieve  his belongings, and  when  he  stepped  outside, his girlfriend
sprayed  him  with  pepper spray.  He pushed  her away  with  the  palm  of his hand  and  hit
her nose,  which began  bleeding, and  she  fell to  the  ground. He  then  left  the  scene.  After
he  was served  with  a  warrant,  he  filed  an  assault complaint against  her. Both  parties were
represented  by  attorneys, and  they mutually agreed  to  dismiss  both  complaints.  (Tr. 48-
51; GX  3  at 7) This incident  is alleged  in  SOR ¶  1.c, and  Applicant  admitted  being  charged
in his answer  to  the SOR.
On a later date in August 2020, Applicant was in a restaurant with a female friend.
They had agreed that each would pay their own bill, but his friend left without paying her
bill. The restaurant owner demanded that Applicant pay both bills, but when he refused,
the restaurant owner called the police, who charged him with restaurant fraud. Applicant
testified that he would have paid the entire bill if he had enough money, but he was “in a
tough spot at the time.” (Tr. 54) He eventually paid it. (Tr. 55) He went to court on October
7, 2020, and was found not guilty. (GX 3 at 8; GX 4 at 10) This incident is alleged in SOR
¶ 1.d, and Applicant admitted his arrest in his answer.
In  April  2021,  Applicant  was  charged  with  evasion  of  a  traffic  control  device,
reckless  driving,  and  failure  to  obey  a  highway  sign.  The  reckless  driving  charge  was
reduced to exercising improper control. He was convicted of improper control and failure
to obey a highway sign. The charge of evading a traffic control device was dismissed. He
was fined $25 for each of the two other violations. (GX 5 at 11-15) He testified that he
was  driving  through  a  very  congested  and  confusing  construction  zone,  and  he  drove
around one of the traffic barriers. (Tr. 56-57) This incident is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e, and
Applicant admitted the arrest in his answer. SOR ¶ 1.e is not fully established, because
the  failure  to  obey  a  traffic  sign  is  an  infraction,  not  a  criminal  offense.  The  reckless
driving, reduced to exercising improper control, was not alleged.
On March 22, 2022, Applicant underwent a random urinalysis administered by his
USAR  unit  that  tested  positive  for  tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC).  (GX  7)  In  a  sworn
statement  he  provided  to  his  company  commander,  he  stated  that  he  purchased  an
electronic cigarette  (vape) from a  gas  station.  He  stated  that  he  specifically asked  the
store clerk if the vape he purchased contained THC, and he was informed by the store
clerk  that  it  did  not.  The  information  from  the  store  clerk  was  incorrect,  and  Applicant
tested positive for THC. (GX 8 at 5)
In June 2023, Applicant voluntarily provided a urine sample to his civilian employer,
and  the  results  were  negative  for  cocaine,  marijuana,  opiates,  amphetamines,  and
phencyclidine. (AX E) He was screened for drug involvement and was found to have no
alcohol or other drug problem. (AX D)
When Applicant submitted his SCA in July 2020 he answered “no” to the question
asking if, in the past seven years, he had been issued a summons, citation, or ticket to
appear in court in a criminal proceeding against him; if he had been arrested by any police
officer,  sheriff,  marshal  or  other  type  of  law  enforcement  official;  and  if  he  had  been
charged, convicted, or sentenced for a crime in any court. When he was interviewed by
a security investigator in October 2020, he told the investigator that he did not realize that
he had been charged with a felony for his involvement in the laptop theft in 2014. When
the investigator confronted him with his arrest record, he told the investigator that he did
not list his arrests in his SCA because he did not read the questions carefully. (GX 3 at
7-8) In his answer to the SOR, he stated that he did not disclose his arrest record in July
2020 because he misread the question.
Applicant submitted another SCA in May 2022, and he answered “no” to the same
question about his arrest record. He also answered  “no” to a  question  asking  if he had
ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs, and he did not disclose his
arrest for DUI in October 2019. In his answer to the SOR, he claimed that he misread the
questions.
After  Applicant  was  charged  with  falsifying  the  criminal  consent  form  in  March
2017, his commander requested that he retain his security clearance and remain in the
unit.  (AX  A)  Applicant  received  the  Army  Achievement  Medal  in  March  2019  for
exceptional service. (AX H) He completed a course in Security Education, Training, and
Awareness,  in  June  2020.  (AX  I)  A  fellow  member  of  the  USAR  has  known  Applicant
since September 2019 and regards him as a friend and “awesome mentor.” Her position
in the USAR is not reflected in her statement. (AX G)
One of Applicant’s co-workers states that he is a skilled forklift operator and a very
diligent  worker.  His  work  ethic  and  dedication  are  noted  and  appreciated  by  all  the
employees working with him. (AX F)
