Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e and denied 2.a
through  2.e  and  3.a.  Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2004.  He  never
married. He has a seven-year-old daughter from a relationship. He has  worked for his
current employer, a federal contractor, since 2015. (Tr. 22-25)
In  May  2000,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol
(DUI).  It  occurred  in  a  state  where  Applicant  did  not  live.  In  September  2007,  he
completed a security clearance (SCA) application. Question 23 asked about Applicant’s
police  record.  It  specifically  asked  if  he  had  ever  been  charged  or  convicted  of  any
offenses  related  to  alcohol  or  drugs.  He  responded  “no.”  In  response  to  the  “other
offense” category it requested to provide a “date of offense.” He wrote “5/2000.” Under
the  question  on  the  form,  he  was  asked  to  check  if  the  offense  involved  a  felony,
firearms  or  explosives,  pending  criminal,  alcohol  or  drugs,  court  martial  or  other
disciplinary  proceeding,  and  any  offense  not  listed  in  the  above  categories.  Applicant
checked the last box as an offense not listed in the above categories. He did not check
the  alcohol  or  drugs  category  box.  He  provided  information  about  the  offense  and
stated:
In the year 2000, when I was 21 years of age I was in a situation where I
received  a  wreckless  [sic]  driving  charge.  That  matter  was  closed  out  in
2005 and I have not received anything more then a speeding ticket before
or after the situation. (GE 2)
Under the section “action taken” he wrote:
I went to court and paid a fine for the wreckless (sic) driving[.] I didn’t lose
my license or anything, and have not done anything larger or smaller then
a  speeding  ticket  before  or  after  that.  That  as  my  only  run  with  the  [l]aw
since I was born. (GE 2)
He also stated:
The  reason  why  this  matter  was  closed  out  in  2005  was  because  I  was
under  the  impression  that  the  matter  was  handled  and  later  I  found  out
that it was not totally settled, so as soon [as] I could I called the courts to
[find] out what I needed to do to settle this matter. Got on a[n] airplane the
next week and flew to [X] and took care of the matter in one day. And that
was the end of the situation. (GE 2)
Applicant testified that the reason he checked  “no”  regarding an offense related
to  alcohol,  and  the  reason  he  failed  to  disclose  his  arrest  and  charge  for  DUI  was
because  he  did  not  understand  the  question.  He  said  he  believed  the  charge  was
reduced  to  “wet  and  reckless”  and  he  paid  a  fine.  In  the  state  where  Applicant  was
arrested  the  term  “wet  reckless”  refers  to  a  DUI  charge  that  was  reduced  based  on  a
plea  agreement  and  the  offense  involved  alcohol.1  Applicant  stated  that  he  was
confused how to report his DUI offense. He did not think he had to report it because he
was not convicted. He said even though he marked “no” on his 2007 SCA regarding an
alcohol offense that he wrote a letter to the federal government before he submitted his
clearance  application,  and  he  made  the  government  aware  of  his  charge.  He  did  not
provide  a  copy  of  the  letter  or  other  corroborating  evidence.  He  said  that  part  of  the
contents  of  the  letter  are  included  in  his  comments  that  are  noted  above  and  were
included  in  the  SCA.  He  testified  that  he  was  not  trying  to  mislead  the  government.
Although  the  charge  of  DUI  may  have  been  reduced,  the  “wet  and  reckless”  charge
involved alcohol, which the SCA specifically asked, and he did not disclose. (Tr. 22-35,
53-64)
In  2013,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI.  He  did  not  report  his
arrest to his facility security officer (FSO) or employer. He said he was unaware that he
was required to report the arrest because he held a clearance and thought he only had
to  report  a  conviction.  When  arrested  he  refused  to  take  a  breathalyzer  because  his
attorney  had  previously  advised  him  not  to  because  the  machine  is  inaccurate.  This
case was eventually nolle prosed. He was unsure why the charge was not prosecuted.
He admitted he had consumed alcohol before the arrest. He failed the field sobriety test,
and he told the police officer that he had consumed two beers and two shots of alcohol
forty-five  minutes  before  his  arrest.  During  his  May  2019  background  interview,  he
denied he consumed any alcohol.  At his hearing, he said he likely had more than one
drink hours before his arrest. (Tr. 35-38, 49, 74-80; GE 3, 9; AE B, C)
In 2017, Applicant completed another SCA. Section 22 asked if in the last seven
years  he  had  been  arrested  by  a  police  officer,  sheriff,  marshal  of  any  other  law
enforcement  official.  He  responded  “no.”  It  also  asked  if  he  had  EVER  been  charged
with an offense involving alcohol or drugs. He responded  “no.”  He did not  disclose his
May 2000 DUI arrest or later reduced “wet and reckless” charge or his September 2013
DUI  arrest  and  charge.  He  again  testified  that  these  were  not  reported  as  required
because they had been dismissed and there was nothing to report, and he thought they
went away. (Tr. 35-38, 64-67; GE 1)
1 California Vehicle Code 23103.5
In  November  2018,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.
Applicant  disputed  the  investigative  summary  and  stated  when  asked  if  he  had  been
charged  with an offense  involving alcohol, he  admitted the 2000 DUI  arrest and noted
that  he  was  never  convicted.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  did  not  report  his  prior
arrests  on  his  2017  SCA  due  to  an  oversight  and  because  all  of  this  information  had
been  previously  provided  over  the  years  and  was  provided  during  his  initial  security
investigation  and  10-year  renewal  process.  He  reiterated  this  explanation  in  his
interrogatories.  He  admitted  he  had  been  drinking  when  he  was  arrested  in  2000.
Applicant  testified  that  when  he  was  specifically  asked  about  his  previous  arrests,  he
disclosed  them  to  the  investigator.  He  did  not  otherwise  because  he  thought  he  only
had to disclose convictions. I did not find Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 68-73; GE
3)
In  February  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  DUI.  He  said  he  did  not  think  he
had to report it to his employer if it was dismissed. He testified that he reported this DUI
to his employer after it was dismissed. He said that at this point he learned that he was
required to report his arrests. He said he thought if the case went away, he would not
have to report it. (Tr. 80-86; GE 3, 4, 8)
The police report for his February 2019 arrest reflects Applicant’s car was parked
half on the pavement and half on a grassy area with its hazard lights on. Applicant was
slumped in the seat and the car was running. The police officer could not conduct a field
sobriety test because Applicant was too intoxicated. He testified he does not know what
he was doing at the time. He refused to take a breathalyzer. During a December 2021
interview with a government investigator, Applicant said he entered a pretrial diversion
(PTD)  program  and  over  a  seven-to-eight-month  period,  he  was  required  to  be  tested
for  alcohol  consumption.  He  was  also  required  to  attend  an  alcohol  awareness  class
through Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). Applicant testified that after going through the PTD
program, this was the first time he thought he might have an alcohol problem. Applicant
continued to consume alcohol. (Tr. 80-87; GE 4, 8)
In May 2019, Applicant was interviewed again by a government investigator and
asked  he  if  had  ever  been  arrested  or  charged  with  an  alcohol-related  offense.  The
investigator indicated Applicant responded “no.” Applicant disputes that and said he told
the investigator he had been charged but not convicted. In this interview they discussed
his 2013 DUI arrest. He denied he had been drinking. This contradicts the police report
and  his  testimony.  He  disclosed  to  the  investigator  he  had  also  been  arrested  in
February 2019 and charged with DUI. At the time of the interview, the charges had not
been adjudicated. He admitted to the investigator that he had been  consuming alcohol
prior to his arrest. He said this type of incident  was unlikely to recur because he does
not drink and drive. (Tr. 88-90; GE 3)
Applicant did not disclose his May 2000 or September 2013 arrests and charges
for DUI or “wet reckless” or any alcohol related offenses in his 2007 or 2017 SCA. It is
unknown who he provided the information to over the years other than a letter he said
he  wrote  to  the  government.  No  evidence  was  admitted  showing  he  provided
information about his 2013 DUI arrest and charge.
In  June  2019,  Applicant  responded  to  government  interrogatories.  Question  2
asked: Have you consumed any alcohol since January 2019. He responded “no.” At his
hearing,  he  testified  that  he  did  consume  alcohol  after  that  date.  As  noted,  he  was
arrested in February 2019 and charged with DUI. (Tr. 87-90; GE 4)
In response to the June 2019 interrogatories, Applicant wrote:
I do not consider myself as a heavy drinker or an irresponsible drink[er]. I
am not an alcoholic, nor do I drink on a[n] everyday or every month basics
[sic].  I  have  never  been  convicted  of  DUI  or  for  having  a  drinking  issue.
(GE 4)
In   June   2020,   Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   DUI.   He   was  found
passed  out at the  wheel of his car while sitting  at a  traffic light.  He  took a  breathalyzer
test  at  the   scene   and   recorded   a   .24%  BAC.  The   police   offered   to   take   him   to   the
hospital because  he  was so  intoxicated.  Applicant testified  he  was  not  feeling  well  and
had   taken   some   cold  medicine.  Once   at  the   police   station, he   refused   to  take   another
breathalyzer.   Applicant  was  convicted   of  DUI.   He  was   ordered   to   pay  a   fine   and
sentenced   to   365   days  in  jail,  suspended;  and   attend   a   highway  intoxication   seminar.
Applicant  admitted   he   was  driving   while   intoxicated.  According   to   the   employer’s
documents,   in   October 2020,  Applicant  informed   them   he   was  arrested   on   August  21,
2020,  for DUI.  Applicant testified  that his June  2000  conviction  was appealed  and  was
sent to the circuit court where he was approved to  participate in a  PTD program. (Tr. 90-
106; GE  5,  7, 11; AE E)
In January 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI. It is unclear if he
was  still  participating  in  a  PTD  program  from  his  June  2020  DUI  charge.  He  told  the
police he had consumed two beers. He failed a field sobriety test and recorded a .11%
BAC. Applicant disputed the accuracy of the BAC saying it took numerous attempts to
complete  it.  The  police  officer  noted  that  Applicant  had  trouble  following  simple
instructions. Applicant does not believe he was intoxicated or impaired. He admitted he
had  a  few  beers.  His  case  was  adjudicated  in  a  PTD  program.  He  continued  to  drink
after his January 2021 arrest. He testified that he last  consumed alcohol in July 2021.
He said he realized he needed to stop drinking alcohol. (Tr. 106-118; GE 3, 6, 12; AE E,
G, I)
The requirements of this PTD program  were to complete a 12-week 36 session
alcohol rehabilitation class, be tested for alcohol consumption, and perform community
service. Applicant went to court ordered AA but did not resume when the PTD program
ended.  He  successfully  completed  the  alcohol  rehabilitation  class  and  found  it  very
helpful.  According  to  the  director who  testified  on  his behalf,  he  was  a model  student.
Since  completion  he  will  occasionally  stop  by  the  class  and  inspire  those  who  are
attending the class. He found the class very helpful. He testified that he no longer has a
desire to drink alcohol. (Tr. 112-127; AE E)
In Applicant’s government interrogatories from June 2022, he made a correction
to his summary of interview from November 2018. He stated he told the investigator that
he  had  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol,  but  he  was  not  convicted.  He
stated:
The reason there was an oversight in the information is due to the fact that
all of this information has been provided over the years as it relates to my
security clearance and wasn’t hidden in any way, due to the fact that the
case was 22 years ago, but again, never hidden and provided  during my
initial  security  clearance  investigation  and  10  year  renewal  process.  (GE
3)
Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  report  the first  four  DUI  arrests  to  his employer  until
2020  when he became  aware of the  requirement  to  do  so  because  he  held a  security
clearance.  He  reported  his  2021  DUI.  He  explained  he  did  not  report  the  pre-2020
charges because he believed if the charge was dismissed  the case was resolved, and
he was not required to report it. (Tr. 53-58)
Applicant testified that he was a social drinker. He would not drink at home alone.
He did not realize for a period that he might have an alcohol problem. His mistake was
drinking and driving. He stated the alcohol class he was required to take as part of his
last PTD was very helpful. He took responsibility for his conduct. He believes he is not a
threat to national security and can be trusted. (Tr. 40-46)
Applicant  admitted  he  is  an  alcoholic.  He  testified  that  he  no  longer  consumes
alcohol. He does not have the urge to drink. He does not go to clubs. He used to drink
on the weekends and admitted he would occasionally drive after consuming alcohol. His
cousin  is  a  recovering  alcoholic  and  acted  as  his  sponsor  while  he  was  attending  the
court-ordered classes. He still has regular contact with his cousin. (Tr. 127-132)
The  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  of  the  rehabilitation  center  that  Applicant
attended  testified  on  his  behalf.  He  described  him  as  an  excellent  participant  who
helped  others  and  followed  all  of  the  rules.  He  never  missed  a  session.  He  believes
Applicant  is  in  recovery.  After  Applicant  completed  the  course,  he  would  return
periodically. The CEO explained that anyone in recovery can relapse, but Applicant has
been sober for about two years. (Tr. 136-139; AE A)
A substance abuse counselor employed where Applicant attended rehabilitation
testified  that  participants  are  welcomed  to  return  after  they  graduate.  She  has  been
employed  at  the  facility  for  a  month.  Applicant’s  counselor  during  his  rehabilitation
thought he  would benefit from an evaluation.  The  substance abuse  counselor was not
involved  in  his  treatment.  She  conducted  an  alcohol  substance  abuse  measurement
metric on Applicant as an evaluation. He was required to complete a questionnaire and
she  met  with  him  for  about  an  hour  and  conducted  an  objective  test.  Her  testing
revealed  he  had  a  very  low  score  indicating  he  was  likely  in  a  low-risk  category  for
relapse. She was not focused on his past alcohol-related incidents, as this is not part of
the testing process but is focused on his recovery. (Tr. 139-158)
Applicant  provided  a  letter  from  his  employer  that  noted  he  is  an  employee  in
good  standing.  His  performance  is  characterized  as  “successful”  based  on  his  last
performance  assessment.  He  was  recognized  in  November  2022  for  his  contributions
and received a special recognition bonus. He was counseled in November 2021 by the
FSO  and  provided  additional  training  regarding  appropriate  notifications  and  has
completed his annual security refresher training in 2021, 2022, and 2023. (AE J)
