In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a in part.
He admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.f, 1.h-1.l, 2.a-2.d, and  3.a-3.j, with explanations.  He denied
SOR ¶ 1.g. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 34-year-old fiber optics technician employed by a defense contractor
since September 2020 (Tr. 15) He has never held a security clearance.
Applicant attended a community college from July 2010 to May 2013 and January
2016 to May 2016, but he has not obtained a degree. He married in November 2012 and
separated on a date not reflected in the record. He testified that he was divorced but could
not recall when it occurred. (Tr. 14).
When Applicant submitted his SCA in April 2019, he disclosed that he illegally used
Oxycontin between September 2013 and December  2017. He did not disclose  illegally
using any other controlled substances.
In response to DOHA interrogatories in September 2022, Applicant admitted using
marijuana  twice  a  month  from  January  2006  to  January  2007.  He  admitted  using
Oxycontin once a week from September 2013 to January 2014 and three times a week
in December 2017. (GX 3 at 4.) He declared that he did not intend to use marijuana in
the  future.  (GX  3  at  6) At  the  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  last  used  marijuana  around
2020. (Tr. 16)
In Applicant’s response to the SOR in December 2022, he admitted using opioids,
including Oxycontin, Percocet, and Roxicodone on various occasions between 2007 and
December  2017,  using  cocaine  in  2007,  abusing  Adderall  in  2012,  and  using  LSD  on
various  occasions  until  2017.  He  also  admitted  using  mushrooms  on  one  occasion  in
2006.  He  denied  using  phencyclidine  (PCP),  but  he  admitted  that  it  was  possible  that
other drugs were laced with PCP. He admitted that in October 2012, he was diagnosed
in  December  2017  he  was  diagnosed  with
with  cannabis  dependence,
opiate/benzodiazepine  dependence  and  sedative/hypnotic  dependence,
that  his
dependence was continuous and severe, and that his prognosis was fair.
that
Applicant testified that he used Adderall in high school in greater quantities than
prescribed, and he continued to use it in college.  He also started stealing opioids from
his father, who had a prescription for them, and used them to counteract the Adderall. (Tr.
18)
In 2007, Applicant “threw a fit” because his parents would not give him the keys to
the family car. His parents called the police, and he was charged with disorderly conduct.
The charges were dismissed. (Tr. 21-22; GX 9 at 5) He was admitted into a behavioral
health  center  for  three  days  and  diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder,  single
episode, severe; cocaine abuse; opiate abuse; and cannabis abuse. His prognosis was
“good with adequate follow up and support.” (GX 5)
In 2012, Applicant punched his father in the face because of something that  his
father said. His father was in a wheelchair at the time. (Tr. 39) Applicant was charged with
assault  and  battery  on  a  family  member.  He  spent  a  week  in  jail.  He  was  convicted,
adjudication was deferred, and he was required to complete anger management training.
(GX 9 at 5)
In  October  2012,  after  the  incident  with  his  father,  Applicant  was  involuntarily
admitted  to  a  psychiatric  center  and  diagnosed  with  major  depressive  disorder,
generalized  anxiety  disorder,  and  cannabis  dependence.  He  did  not  complete  this
treatment  program.  He  was discharged  in August 2013  because he  stopped attending
appointments and did not respond to efforts to contact him. (GX 6)  The records of the
psychiatric center do not include a prognosis.
In May 2013, Applicant was charged with destruction of property. He testified that
after he and his father had an argument, he broke a handrail in the house. He testified
that at that time, he would sometimes break something when he was angry. (Tr. 43) He
failed to appear in court, was convicted of contempt of court, and was sentenced to 90
days in jail, suspended for 90 days. (GX 4 at 6)
In  mid-2016,  Applicant’s  father  committed  suicide.  Applicant  went  into  “deep
depression” and resumed use of opioids. On December 15, 2017, he self-admitted into a
psychiatric center for opioid detoxication. On admission, he was diagnosed with opioid
withdrawal,  sedative  hypnotic  withdrawal,  opioid  use  disorder,  benzodiazepine  use
disorder, sedative hypnotic use disorder, substance induced mood disorder, and anxiety
disorder not otherwise specified. (GX 7 at 4) He was discharged on December 29, 2017,
and  diagnosed  with  opiate  dependence,  continuous,  severe;  sedative  and  hypnotic
dependence,  continuous,  severe;  and  generalized  anxiety  disorder.  (GX  7  at  41)  His
prognosis was “fair.” (GX 7 at 6)
After Applicant was discharged from the psychiatric center, he was referred to a
psychiatric  nurse  practitioner,  and  he  began  participating  in  group  therapy  in  January
2018.  His  diagnosis  upon  admission  was  opioid  dependance,  uncomplicated;  and
sedative, hypnotic, or anxiolytic dependence, uncomplicated. (GX 8 at 2) A progress note
from June 2018, reflected that he continued to exhibit symptoms of an emotional disorder
and  substance  abuse  disorder.  (GX  8  at  47)  Group  members  were  required  to  attend
meetings  of  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  or  Narcotics  Anonymous  (NA)  three  times  a
week. In November 2018, the psychiatric nurse practitioner suspected that some of the
signatures on his NA attendance sheets appeared to have been forged. Applicant denied
forging signatures, and  the  issue  was not  resolved. (GX 8  at  80)  During  the  treatment
program,  he  tested  positive  for  marijuana  at  least  twice.  (GX  8  at  48)  He  actively
participated  in  the  group  therapy  sessions.  The  group  therapy  records  reflect  that
Applicant was admonished frequently to follow medication instructions and advised him
against premature tapering off the use of drugs to control the craving for opioids. (GX 8
at 82) At the hearing, Applicant admitted that he stopped taking the drugs sooner than his
therapist  recommended  and  contrary  to  the  advice  of  his  peer  support  group.  He
considers himself “completely clean.” (Tr. 32) The records of the group therapy facility do
not include a prognosis.
In  June  2022,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  board-certified  psychologist  at  the
request  of  the  DCSA  CAS.  (GX  4)  The  psychologist  had  him  complete  a  personality
assessment inventory (PAI). The psychologist noted that Applicant responded to items
carelessly  and  did  not  pay  attention  to  the  content  of  the  questions.  He  attributed
Applicant’s  answers  in  the  PAI  were  due  to  “general  carelessness,  reading  problems,
attention  problems,  or idiosyncratic thinking.”  The  psychologist  concluded  that  the  PAI
was invalid because Applicant’s responses to questions were “indicative of respondents
who attempt to portray themselves in the most positive light and exceptionally free of the
common shortcomings to which most others will admit.”
The psychologist also noted that Applicant “was not highly motivated to put forth
the  mental  energy  needed  to  provide  a  detailed  accounting  of  his  mental  health  and
substance us history and treatment history.” Instead, Applicant simply referred to his SCA
and  report  of  investigation  multiple  times  as  the  source  of  information  that  the
psychologist asked for.
Applicant told the psychologist that he stopped using marijuana when he was hired
by his current employer in September 2020, but later in the interview he admitted that he
had “smoked weed here and there” since he was hired. (GX 4 at 4) He admitted to the
psychologist that he stopped taking the opioid-withdrawal drugs sooner than his therapist
recommended  and  contrary  to  the  advice  of  his  peer  support  group.  The  psychologist
reported  that  it  was  difficult  to  fully  understand  Applicant’s  current  substance-abuse
status, because the information he provided during the assessment was inconsistent with
past records (such as his SCA and responses to interrogatories) and his own statements
during  the  assessment.  He  noted  that  there  was  “hard  evidence”  that  Applicant  had
recovered from his last episode of opioid abuse, but there was also evidence that he did
not follow the treatment recommendations from his last treatment that ended in December
2018. The psychologist concluded:
At best, [Applicant] has abstained from opioid and other drug use since 2017
and from marijuana use since 2020. At worst, he misrepresented himself to
me and he continues to use illegal drugs and/or misuse prescription drugs
with an unknown frequency and intensity. . . . At best, [Applicant] is free of
interfering  mental  health  symptoms  at  this time.  At  worst,  he  continues  to
suffer  from  a  range  of  symptoms  to  a  degree  that  interferes  with  his
interpersonal and work life. I am simply unable to tell.
The psychologist concluded, “The results of the present evaluation are inconclusive
regarding whether [Applicant] has any active mental health or substance abuse condition
that could negatively impact his reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment in safeguarding
national security information.” (GX 4 at 6-7)
Applicant’s girlfriend since December 2020 met him while they were both working
for his current employer. She  regards him  as a  kind  and  loving  person  who  is “always
trying to improve himself despite the things he did in the past.” She believes that he has
grown into a “healthy and reliable person, coworker, and future husband.” (AX A)
Applicant’s lifelong friend, who now shares an apartment with him, has known him
since they were teenagers. He witnessed  Applicant’s “blatant disregard  for himself and
others around him, destructive behavior, and rampant substance abuse.” He believes that
Applicant has “both figuratively and literally turned his life around in roaring totality for the
better.”  Although  Applicant  was  told  that  he  would  “never  be  employed,  never  free  of
drugs, and never worth of affection,” he now “has a great job, is long-term free of drugs,
and is in a health relationship.” (AX C)
Applicant’s younger brother believes that the turning point in Applicant’s life was
the passing of their father. He describes the changes in Applicant’s behavior as “someone
that  was  on  the  path  of  self-destruction  to  someone  [who]  leads  the  path  of  self-
improvement.”  He  considers  Applicant  a  role  model  to  any  who  wishes  to  better
themselves and enjoy a happy, successful adulthood. (AX D)
Applicant’s mother states that she has watched him  completely transform during
the past ten years, when her view of him was “murky at best” to the present. He now talks
about  things  that  she never dreamed possible  for him.  (AX  E) Applicant’s  former wife,
who maintains a “strong friendship” with him, believes that he has undergone a significant
positive  transformation  after  the  passing  of  his  father.  He  now  handles  his  mother’s
financial matters and has shown no interest in drugs. (AX G)
One of Applicant’s coworkers, who has known him for the past year, describes him
as “an individual who shows up earlier than asked, works hard, and carries [himself] in a
polite, respectable manner. (AX H) Applicant’s project lead describes him as a kind and
generous person with a strong sense of duty and high integrity. (AX B) Applicant’s current
project manager describes him as an upstanding and reliable key employee, who plays
a  critical  role  in  the  fiber  optic  installation  team.  He  strongly  recommends  approval  of
Applicant’s application for a security clearance. (AX F)
