Applicant,  61,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contracting
company, as a technical writer since 2018. He previously held a security clearance from
1982  to  1987.  He  applied  for  access  to  classified  information  in  2012,  but  that
application  was  not  fully  adjudicated  because  he  changed  employment  and  no  longer
required access. He applied for and was granted public trust eligibility in 2017. Applicant
completed his most recent security clearance application in August 2018. He disclosed
foreign national family members, his wife’s  two  adult  sons as  well as  her  mother, who
are  citizens  and  residents  of  Ukraine  –  as  foreign  nationals  to  whom  he  has  provided
financial  support.  He  also  disclosed  his  wife’s  ownership  interest  in  an  apartment  in
Ukraine. (Tr. 26, 29, 50-52; GE 1-3)
The SOR alleges these relationships as potentially disqualifying under the foreign
influence  guideline  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  –  1.c).  Applicant  also  disclosed  multiple  relationships
with  and  financial  support of  internet-based, foreign  national  sex  workers  from  several
countries. These relationships are alleged in the SOR under the foreign influence (SOR
¶¶  1.d  –  1.m),  sexual behavior  (SOR  ¶  2.a),  and  personal  conduct  guidelines  (SOR  ¶
3.a).  In  addition,  the  SOR  also  alleges  under  the  personal  conduct  guideline,  that
Applicant  was  removed  from  a  temporary  work  assignment  by  his  employer  at  the
request  of  a  client  company  after  he  made  and  disseminated  a  work-related  video  to
coworkers without permission from the client company. (SOR ¶ 3.b)
Work-related Misconduct
In  2011,  Applicant  was  employed  by  Company  A,  a  temporary  staffing  agency,
and assigned to a technical writing project for Client. During the assignment, he realized
that  he  and  other  technical  writers  were  having  difficulty  writing  instructions  related  to
troubleshooting a particular device. Without permission from Client, Applicant tested the
device to failure and made a video of the test to provide a visual aid to other technical
writers  on  the  project.  He  then  shared  the  video  with  others  on  the  project,  including
Client’s  employees,  who  reported  the  video  and  its  distribution.  Client  requested
Applicant’s removal from the project. Company A complied with the request but did not
terminate  Applicant’s  employment.  Company  A  eventually  reassigned  him  to  a  project
with a different client. There is no evidence that the video was against Client policy, or
that  it  contained  proprietary  or  otherwise  sensitive  information.  Nor  is  there  any
evidence that Applicant committed a security violation by making and disseminating the
video. (Tr. 71-75; Answer)
Familial Relationships  with Foreign Nationals
Applicant’s   wife,   his  third,   whom   he   married   in  2011,   is   originally   from   Ukraine.
The  United   States   established   diplomatic  relationships   with   Ukraine   in  1991   when   it
gained  independence  from  Russia.  The  United  States attaches  great importance  to  the
success of Ukraine  as  a  free  and  democratic state  with  a  flourishing  market  economy.
U.S.  policy  is  centered   on   supporting   Ukraine   in  the   face   of   continued   Russian
aggression as it advances reforms  to strengthen  democratic institutions, fight corruption,
and  promote conditions for economic growth  and competition.   (GE  1; HE IV)
In  February  2014,  Russia  annexed  Crimea,  claiming  the  area  to  be  part  of  the
Russian  Federation.  In  September  2022,  Russia  occupied  four  more  provinces  in
Ukraine, and in February 2022, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. As a
result,  the  U.S.  State  Department  issued  Level  4  –  Do  not  travel  warnings,  for  both
countries.  In  Ukraine  U.S.  citizens  must  exercise  diligence  due  to  the  potential  for
military  attacks,  crime,  and  civil  unrest.  There  are  continued  reports  of  Russian  forces
and  their  proxies  singling  out  U.S.  citizens  in  Russian-occupied  areas  of  Ukraine  for
detention,  interrogation,  or harassment  because  of  their nationality.  U.S.  citizens  have
also been singled out when evacuating by land through Russia-occupied territory or to
Russia  or  Belarus.  Because  of  the  invasion,  U.S.  emergency  consular  services  are
limited, especially in Russian-occupied areas. (HE IV)
U.S.  citizens  in   Russia   face   potential  for  harassment   and   the   singling   out  for
detention   by   Russian   government  security  officials.   U.S   citizens  may   also  face
the  arbitrary  enforcement   of   local   law,  limited   flights  into   and   out  of  Russia,  as  well   as
the  possibility of  terrorism. The  U.S. Embassy  in Russia  also has limited  ability to  assist
U.S.  citizens   in  emergency  situations.  Due   to   sanctions  imposed   on   Russia   by  the
United  States, U.S. credit and  debit cards will  not work in Russia  and  funds transferred
from   U.S.   banking   institutions   may   not  be   accessible   by  Russian   banks,   creating   the
potential  for  financial   difficulty  for  U.S.   citizens  in  Russia.  Dual  U.S.   and   Russian
citizens  face  additional risks, including  Russia’s  refusal  to  acknowledge  dual  nationals’
U.S.   citizenship,  denying   their   access  to   U.S.  consular  assistance,  subjecting   them   to
mobilization,   preventing   their   departure  from   Russia,  and   possibly  conscripting   them
into  military  service.  (HE V)
Applicant’s wife became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2016. Her mother and two
adult  sons  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Ukraine.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  his  wife’s
sons  on  his  2012  security  clearance  application.  He  disclosed  them  on  the  2018
security  clearance  application  only  as  foreign  nationals  to  whom  he  has  provided
financial  support.  He  did  not  disclose  them  as  relatives  or  other  foreign  nationals  to
whom  he  is  bound  to  by  affection,  influence,  common  interests,  or  obligation.  (Tr.  32;
GE 1, 3)
Applicant  has   limited   contact  with   his  wife’s  sons  and  his   mother-in-law.  The
younger son  is married  with  one  child.  He is  currently serving  in  the  Ukrainian  military.
Applicant occasionally sends the  son’s  wife  between  $50  and  $100  in financial support.
The  older  son   resides  in  an   apartment   that  he   owns  jointly  with   Applicant’s   wife.
Applicant   does  not  consider  himself  to   have   any  interest   in  the   apartment,  which  he
believes   will   pass   directly  to   her  son   upon   her  death.   Neither  Applicant   nor   his   wife
consider  it  part  of  their   assets   or  rely  on   it   for  their   financial  maintenance.   Applicant
sends  him   $50   each   year  on   his   birthday.  On   his  2018   security  clearance   application,
Applicant   disclosed   that   he   had  provided   each   son   a   total  of   $2,000   each   in   financial
support   over the   course   of  their   acquaintance.  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  in  her  mid-
nineties. She  continues to  live  on  her own,  with  assistance  from  Applicant’s brother-in-
law. Applicant believes  that  he  has contributed  $300  to  her care over  the  last  year. (Tr.
32-36)
Intimate Relationships  with Foreign  National Sex  Workers
Applicant  began  interacting  with  foreign  national  sex  workers  through  adult
entertainment internet sites, some of which were Russian based, after the death of his
second wife in 2009. Initially, he interacted with women from Russia, Ukraine, Latvia. In
exchange  for  tips  from  Applicant,  the  women  engaged  in  conversation  and  performed
sex acts for him to watch. As he established a level of closeness with the women, their
communication moved to encrypted communication platforms such as What’s App and
Skype. He continued these relationships online and in person after marrying his current
wife in 2011. (Tr. 36-41, 47)
On his 2012 security clearance application, in response to Section 19 –  Foreign
Contacts,  Applicant  disclosed  two  sex  workers  that  he  considered  himself  bound  by
affection, influence, common interests,  or obligation. In response to the same question
on  his  August  2018  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  relationships
with eight sex workers.  Five of the women were Russian citizens, one was from Latvia,
one  from  Syria,  and  one  from  Romania.  He  also  disclosed  providing  over  $32,000  in
financial  support  to  11  foreign  national  sex  workers,  including  over  $14,000  to  seven
women  he  had  never  met.  At  the  hearing,  he  estimated  that  he  has  provided  at  least
$50,000 in financial support to these women between 2009 and 2018. (Tr. 30, 42; GE 1,
3)
Applicant has visited two sex workers based in Russia and Ukraine. He paid for
at  least  two  women  to  travel  to  the  United  States  and  other  international  cities.  He
admits to buying gifts for these women, to include electronics, cosmetics, and clothing.
He  funds  these  relationships  with  the  survivor’s  benefits,  approximately  $39,000
annually,  he  received  after  his  second  wife  died  in  2009.  He  discussed  these  foreign
national  contacts  in  October  2012  and  December  2018  background  interviews.  At  the
hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that  as  he  was  being  investigated  in  2018,  he  considered
the possibility that these relationships not only represented a potential security risk but
could  also  put  his  employment  in  jeopardy.  Ultimately,  he  decided  to  continue  the
relationships  because  he  had  disclosed  them  to  the  Government  and  they  were
therefore out in the open. (Tr. 52-53; GE 4-5; Answer)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  spoke  of  three  incidents  worth  highlighting.  In  2011,
Applicant  traveled  to  Russia  to  visit  a  woman  with  whom  he  had  fallen  in  love.  He
believed  she  reciprocated  those  feelings.  However,  when  he  arrived  in  Russia,  she
refused to see him without explanation. In another instance, Applicant loaned $3,000 to
a  Russian  sex  worker  to  start  a  business.  He  testified  that  when  the  business  didn’t
“transpire,” he forgave the loan. It is unclear what he meant by “transpire,” whether the
business  failed  or  if  the  money  was  used  for  another  purpose.  He  admits  sending
another Russian sex  worker $400 every two  weeks  for two years as financial support,
as  she  pursued  a  case  through  the  Russian  court  system  over  a  real  estate  deal.  In
2016, Applicant paid for the same woman who he attempted to visit in Russia in 2011,
to  visit  him  in  the  United  States.  He  paid  the  travel  expenses  for  the  woman  and  her
male companion, who accompanied her on each of the three outings Applicant had with
her. Applicant testified that he was not sure of the relationship between the woman and
her companion but assumed that he was her romantic partner. (Tr. 41-43)
Applicant  stopped  engaging  with  Russian  sex  workers,  citing  his  growing
displeasure with Russia’s political position and ultimate invasion of Ukraine in February
2022.  He  still provides  occasional  financial  support  to  two  women  in  Ukraine.  He  sent
one  woman  money  to  help  her  flee  the  country.  He  sends  money  to  another  woman
living  in  Dnipro,  a  heavily  embattled  area  of  Ukraine,  just  to  help.  In  2017,  at  the
suggestion of a coworker that he might like women from Colombia, he began soliciting
sex  workers  based  in  that  country.  At  the  time  of  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  to
having ongoing relationships with at least six Colombian sex workers. He estimates that
he has provided $10,000 in financial support to sex workers based in Colombia. He is
currently learning Spanish to facilitate his communication with the women.  (Tr.  46,  48,
54-58, 57-58, 63)
Applicant  testified  that  his  wife  knows  about  but  does  not  condone  his
relationships  with  internet  sex  workers  or  the  money  he  spends  on  them.  He  has  told
her  that  because  the money  is  not  marital property,  he  will  continue  to  spend  it  as  he
chooses.  At  the  hearing,  he  stated  his  intention  to  continue  pursuing  intimate
relationships  with  internet-based,  foreign  national  sex  workers  and  providing  them
financial support (Tr. 63):
Regarding all these activities, I will simply say that they give me  a joy that I
have   not   previously  known  in   my   life[,]   and   I  do   not  apologize   for  them.
(Tr. 19)
