Applicant, age 63, is married and has two adult children. (Item 2 at pages 7, 21
and 25~26.) She has worked for a Federal Contractor since October of 2019.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
1.a. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor A in the amount of
about  $10,120.  Applicant  has  submitted  correspondence  from  Creditor  A  averring  that
said  creditor  cancelled  this  debt,  and  reported  it  as  a  business  loss  to  the  Internal
Revenue  Service  (IRS).  (Response  at  pages  1  and  17.)  This  allegation  is  found  for
Applicant.
1.b. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor B in the amount of
about $6,703. Applicant has submitted correspondence from Creditor B showing that she
has initiated monthly payments of $50 towards this debt, and has a remaining balance of
$6,453. (Response at pages 1 and 7~8.) This allegation is found for Applicant.
1.c. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor C in the amount of
about $3,908. Applicant avers that she is in contact with a representative of Creditor C,
but offers nothing further in this regard. (Response at page 2.) This allegation is found
against Applicant.
1.d. Applicant neither admits nor denies an alleged past-due debt to Creditor D in
the amount of about $1,983. (Response at page 2.)  As this debt appears as past due on
the  Government’s  most  recent  May  2022  credit  report  (CR),  this  allegation  is  found
against Applicant. (Item 4 at page 4.)
1.e. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor E in the amount of
about $994. Applicant avers that she is in contact with a representative of Creditor E, but
offers nothing further in this regard. (Response at page 2.) This allegation is found against
Applicant.
1.f. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor F in the amount of
about $605. Applicant avers that she is in contact with a representative of Creditor F, but
offers nothing further in this regard. (Response at page 3.) This allegation is found against
Applicant.
1.g. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor G in the amount of
about  $443.  (Response  at  page  3.)  Applicant  has  submitted  correspondence  from
Creditor G showing that this debt is “paid in full.” (Response at page 19.) This allegation
is found for Applicant.
1.h. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor H in the amount of
about $420. Applicant avers little further in this regard. (Response at pages 3~4.) This
allegation is found against Applicant.
1.i. Applicant neither admits nor denies an alleged past-due debt to Creditor I in
the amount of about $230. (Response at page 4.)  As this debt appears as past due on
the Government’s most recent May 2022 CR, this  allegation is found against Applicant.
(Item 4 at page 5.)
1.j. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor J in the amount of
about $166. Applicant avers that “this account is paid in full,” but offers nothing further in
this regard. (Response at page 4.) As this debt appears as past due on the Government’s
most recent May 2022 CR, this allegation is found against Applicant. (Item 4 at page 6.)
1.k.  Applicant  originally  denied  this  debt  in her  Answer.  In  her  Response  to  the
FORM, Applicant now admits the alleged past-due debt to Creditor K in the amount of
$196. (Response at page 4.) As she offers nothing further in this regard, apart from her
bare averments, this allegation is found against Applicant.
1.l.  Applicant  originally  denied  this  debt  in  her  Answer.  In  her  Response  to  the
FORM, Applicant now admits the alleged past-due debt to Creditor L in the amount of
$408. (Response at page 5.) As she offers nothing further in this regard, apart from her
bare averments, this allegation is found against Applicant.
1.m. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor M in the amount of
about $7,187. Applicant has submitted correspondence from Creditor M showing that she
has initiated monthly payments of $142 towards debt, and has a remaining balance of
$6,827. (Response at pages 6 and 13~16.) This allegation is found for Applicant.
1.n. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt to Creditor N in the amount of
about  $709.  Applicant  has  submitted  correspondence  from  the  successor  creditor  to
Creditor N showing that she has initiated monthly payments of $50 towards debt, and has
a remaining balance of $446. (Response at pages 6 and 11~12.) This allegation is found
for Applicant.
