Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked  since  July  2021.  He  earned  an  associate  degree  in  April  2018.  He  has  been
married since 2007 and has no  children. He served on active duty with the Army  from
2002 until April 2015, when he earned an honorable discharge. He has served on active
reserve duty with the Army National Guard since April 2015. (Items 2, 3)
In  the  SOR,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  five  delinquent  debts  totaling
approximately  $28,000  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.e).  Other  than  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.e,
which  appears  to  be  a  cable  or  internet  account,  the  evidence  does  not  specify  the
nature of these accounts. He admitted the SOR allegations except for the allegation in
SOR  ¶  1.e,  which  he  denied.  He  provided  no  additional  information  in  his  Answer
regarding these debts, or a basis for his denial of the debt in SOR ¶ 1.e. His admissions
are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  The  SOR  allegations  are  established  through  his
admissions  and  the  Government’s  credit  reports.  The  Government’s  credit  reports
reflect  that  the  SOR  debts  became  delinquent  between  February  and  March  2022.
(Items 1, 3-5)
Applicant became delinquent on the SOR debts because he was having a hard
time adjusting to civilian life after he left the military. He was also unemployed for about
four  months  beginning  in  March  2017.  He  acknowledged  that  he  forgot  to  cancel  the
cable  account  listed  in  SOR  ¶  1.e,  but  he  claimed  during  his  April  2022  security
interview,  that  he  thought  he  had  paid  this  account.  During  his  interview,  he  also
claimed  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debts  listed  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d,  but  that  he
would promptly investigate them. He provided no additional evidence that the accounts
in  SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d were not his and admitted them in his Answer. (Items 1, 3-5)
The  only  evidence  Applicant  provided  that  he  attempted  to  resolve  the  SOR
debts is a monthly budget that reflects monthly payments to the creditors in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
through  1.c.  He  did  not  provide  any  independent  documentary  corroboration  of  these
monthly  payments,  such  as  bank  account  statements  or  creditor  acknowledgement  of
payments or a payment arrangement. He provided no evidence concerning the possible
resolution of the debt in SOR ¶ 1.e. As he has not provided documentary corroboration,
I cannot find that his SOR debts are resolved or being resolved.  He estimated that he
has about $1,767 in surplus funds at the end of each month. He provided no evidence
that he has undergone financial counseling. (Items 1, 3-5; AE A)
