Applicant is 30 years old, has never married, and has no children. He earned a
bachelor’s degree in May 2019. He has worked for a DoD contractor as an engineer since
July 2019. He submitted a security clearance application in July 2019 (2019 e-QIP) and
was granted national security eligibility in January 2020 at the Secret level. He submitted
the 2022 e-QIP to apply for eligibility for a Top Secret clearance in connection with his
increased employment responsibilities. (Tr. at 10-12; GE 2 at 5, 12-13, 23-24 37-38.)
Guideline H, Drug Involvement  and Substance  Misuse
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a
clearance because he has a history of drug involvement. Specifically, the SOR alleged
that Applicant used Ecstasy in about August 2017 and marijuana from about March 2018
through at least January 2022 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b). The SOR also alleged that Applicant
used marijuana after having been granted eligibility for access to classified information in
January 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.c). In his Answer, Applicant admitted each of the allegations “with
clarifications.”
I make the following findings of fact with respect to the SOR allegations:
SOR ¶ 1.a. Ecstasy  Use.  Applicant used Ecstasy on one occasion in August 2017
at a music festival he attended with some college friends. He was given the drug by a
friend. Applicant views this as a one-time experience. He had never taken Ecstasy before
this music festival and has never taken it since. Applicant disclosed this illegal drug use
in his 2019 e-QIP. (Answer at 1; Tr. at 21-24; GE 1 at 37-38.)
SOR ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c.  Marijuana  Use. Applicant wrote in the Answer that he smoked
marijuana a few times with friends in 2018 while he was attending college. He smoked
marijuana using a THC wax pen. He estimated that this occurred four or five times. The
friends were in his study group during his senior year in college. He never possessed,
bought,  or  sold  the  drug.  He  stopped  using  marijuana  prior  to  starting  work  at  his
employer.  His  employer  has  a  zero-tolerance  policy  for  illegal  drug  use.  Applicant
disclosed his 2018 use of marijuana in his 2019 e-QIP. (Answer at 1; Tr. at 24-33, 38-42;
GE 1 at 38.)
Applicant also admitted in his Answer that he used marijuana twice in 2021. He
reported his use of marijuana in his 2022 e-QIP, and the two instances of illegal drug use
are the subject of these SOR allegations. The first time he used marijuana in August 2021
was at a  friend’s wedding. Applicant joined  with  friends he knew from high school and
took “a few puffs” on a THC wax pen. The wedding was the first occasion that he had
seen these friends since  the beginning of the  Covid-19 pandemic. The second time  in
2021 was at a New Year’s Eve (2021-2022) party with friends from college. (Answer at 1;
Tr. at 24-33; GE 2 at 34-36.)
Applicant  wrote  in  his  2019  e-QIP  that,  “I  sacrificed  a  lot  to  make  sure  that  I
graduated college and have no intention of jeopardizing my early career by using THC
wax pens.” At the hearing, he admitted that he used poor judgment on two occasions by
smoking marijuana in 2021. He also described his judgment as a “careless lapse.” In the
future,  he  plans  to  be  very  diligent  and  “very,  very  conscious  of  my  actions.”  He  also
attributed his lapses of judgment to the end of the COVID-19 restrictions on socializing.
Now that the restrictions have been lifted for some time, he is comfortable that socializing
with friends is not such a special occasion, and he can exercise better judgment in his
actions. He has never been a habitual user of marijuana. He estimates that he has used
marijuana about eight times in his life. He is unhappy with himself that he used such poor
judgment that he put himself in the position of being scrutinized for his recent drug. He
intends to make sure that he never puts his career in jeopardy again. He is now more
conscious of his actions at his workplace, when he is away from work, and when he is
around others. He is confident that his past poor judgment will not be repeated.  (Answer
at 2; Tr. at 38-42, 44-48, 49; GE 2 at 35.)
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence
In his 2022 e-QIP, Applicant disclosed his marijuana use in 2021 because he knew
it  was  important  to  be  completely  transparent  and  honest.  He  feels  that  his  work  is
important, and he takes his work seriously.  He does not intend to ever use an illegal drug
again. He feels strongly that the incidents in 2021 are in the past and will not be repeated.
He has had subsequent experiences where others were using drugs in his presence, and
he has refrained from participating. He understands now that his work is very important
to him, and he does not want to jeopardize his career in any way. Applicant submitted a
written letter expressing his intent to abstain from illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. at 33-37;
AE I.)
Applicant
former
three  character-reference
supervisors. Each reference provided strong endorsements of Applicant’s character and
work ethic. (AE F; AE G; AE H.)
letters  written  by
introduced
Applicant  also  presented  a  psychological  evaluation  from  a  board-certified
psychologist.  The  psychologist  concluded
that  Applicant  “does  not  have  any
psychological  conditions,  behavioral  patterns,  or  substance  use  problems  that  could
impair  his  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness  related  to  properly  safeguarding
national security information or working in a secure setting.” In support of this conclusion,
the psychologist noted that Applicant has admitted to making poor choices in the past.
The psychologist wrote further that Applicant “elected to disclose the information [about
his past drug use] to the Government when it would have been easy to omit and conceal
it. [Applicant] said, ‘I just decided I would rather be honest and up front about it. That’s
who I want to be.’” (AE Q at 5-6.)
