Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in his answers to the SOR, except for
any references in the allegations to sections in the state code, which he denied. He is 34
years old. As of the date of the hearing, he was engaged to be married and he has two
minor children. He has owned his home since December 2018. (Answer; Answer 2; Tr.
at 8-9, 20, 22-23, 79, 101; GE 1; AE D)
Applicant obtained his high school diploma in 2007. He has also received several
professional certifications. He has worked in the security field since 2010. As of the date
of the hearing and since January 2021, he has worked as an industrial security specialist
for his employer, a DOD contractor. He also has worked as a part-time security officer for
an  agency  or  department  of  the  U.S.  government  since  January  2023.  He  was  first
granted a security clearance in approximately 2011. (Tr. at 5, 20-23, 79-80, 85-87, 91-93;
GE 1; AE A)
Applicant’s parents separated when he was four years old. He and his three older
brothers were raised by their mother. His father “was in and out of my life growing up so
that kind of took a toll on me, didn’t understand why he didn’t want to be, you know, part
of me and my brother’s lives.” He testified:
Just –  well, my mother was always working so I kind of  –  you know, kind of
just  grew up  watching  stuff  in  the  neighborhood, you  know,  really not any
type  of, like  real discipline. I felt like  that,  you  know, kind  of led  me  down a
path of wrong  decisions. (Tr. at 24-26)
Between  2009  and  2022,  Applicant  was  involved  in  seven  alcohol-related
incidents.  In  December  2009,  at  age  20,  he  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  public
swearing/intoxication, and he was found guilty in absentia. (SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 2.h) He recalled
living with his mother and believed he had just been laid off from his job as an electrician.
He  acknowledged  consuming  alcohol  before  age  21,  but  he  could  not  recall  the
circumstances surrounding this incident. (Tr. at 27-28, 80; GE 5)
In November 2010, at age 21, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor Driving
While  Intoxicated  (DWI),  1st  offense.  He  pled  guilty  to  the  reduced  charge  of
misdemeanor  reckless  driving,  and  he  was  sentenced  to  90  days  in  jail,  suspended,
unsupervised probation for one year, his driver’s license was restricted for six months, he
was ordered to attend an alcohol safety action program (ASAP), and he was fined. (SOR
¶¶ 1.e, 2.h; Tr. at 28-31, 83-88; GE 4, 5)
This was Applicant’s first DWI. He consumed around three to four 12-ounce mixed
drinks while he was at a bar with a friend for a birthday party. It was raining as he drove
home,  and  he  lost  control  of  his  vehicle  and  hit  a  street  pole.  He  was  hospitalized  for
“breaks  in  my  pelvis,  fractures  in  my  spine,  and  a  laceration  in  my  hand,”  and  the
passenger had a ruptured spleen and possibly a broken rib. Applicant testified:
Well,  in   the   past,   I   blamed   [the   car  crash]  on   the   weather.  Always
considered  myself good  enough  to, you  know, drive  that day. And  looking
back now on  it, I believe  alcohol definitely played  a  factor in my decisions
that night. I made  a  poor decision  to  make  the  turn doing  40  miles an  hour
and   having   summer  tires  on   the   vehicle   and   losing   control.   I  definitely
shouldn’t have  been  driving  if I  wasn’t  able  to  make  the  correct decision  in
the weather.   (Tr. at 28-31, 83-88; GE  4, 5)
In  March  2013,  at  age  23,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DWI,  1st
offense,  blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  greater  than  .20%,  and  carrying  a  concealed
weapon, both misdemeanors. He was convicted of the amended charge of misdemeanor
DWI, 1st offense, no BAC, and sentenced to 90 days in jail, with 88 days suspended, his
driver’s license was restricted for one year, he was ordered to have an ignition interlock
device installed on his car for six to 12 months and to attend an ASAP program, and he
was  fined  $500.  The  latter  charge  was  nolle  prossed.  He  attended  and  successfully
completed an ASAP program in August 2014. He did not believe he underwent an alcohol
evaluation  at  this  time.  His  driver’s  license  was  reinstated  after  one  year  without
restriction. (SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 2.f, 2.h; Tr. at 31-38, 89-101, 148-149; GE 1, 3, 4, 5)
Applicant consumed around three to four, 12-ounce beers earlier that day while he
was replacing  a  broken  headlight  on  his brother’s car.  Later that evening, after he had
slept for around three to four hours, he drove his brother’s car to the home of his then-
girlfriend, now fiancée. A police officer pulled him over for disobeying a traffic signal. In
response to the officer’s questioning, he admitted to consuming alcohol earlier in the day.
The officer administered a breathalyzer and conducted a search of the car, and the officer
found a butter knife in the center console. Applicant was unaware there was a knife in the
car, and he believed it belonged to his brother who owned the car. He acknowledged that
he should not have consumed alcohol when he knew he had to later drive, but at the time
he stated that he did not think he was intoxicated because he had slept  after he drank
and before he drove. (Tr. at 31-38, 89-101; GE 1, 3, 4, 5)
In  August  2015,  at  age  26,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DWI,  2nd
offense  within  five  years,  and  refusal  of  blood  or  breath  test,  2nd  offense,  both
misdemeanors.  Both  charges  were  nolle  prossed.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  2.h)  He  denied
consuming alcohol before this incident. He stated that his day was an early and  a long
one, as he drove his mother two and a half hours to see his brother, and then he drove
her back to her home where he hung out with her before driving to visit a friend who lived
near his apartment. He testified that as he was driving home:
It  was pretty  late  at  night.  I  don’t remember the  exact time.  But I  was driving,
and I fell  asleep. And  when I woke up  –  like I dozed off for a second. When
I  woke   up,  I  was  doing   probably  like   45   miles  an   hour  on   [the   highway].
Woke  up, and  at the  last minute, tried  to  correct the  steering  wheel because
there   was  like   a   concrete   barrier  on   the   side.  They   were   doing,  like,
construction. And  so  when  I did that, the  car swerved  back and  forth  and  it
hit the  concrete  barrier. The  airbag deployed.  I hit my head on  the  steering
wheel. I wasn’t wearing  a  seatbelt at the time. So  when  the  officers arrived
on  the  scene,  I was, like, leaning  on  the  car,  you  know, still  in  a  daze  from
smacking   my  head   and   having   the   airbags  flow  in  my  face.  The   officers
never asked  me  did  I need  any aid or anything. It  was just  more  so, Have
you been drinking?  Like, no.  Okay.  Do you  mind  taking  a  sobriety test?  I’m
like, I’m   not   going  to   take  one   because   you  all   didn’t  offer me  any aid.  At
that point, I was . . . arrested  and  taken  to  jail. (Tr. at 38-41, 106-112; GE  3,
5)
In   March  2017,  at  age   27,  Applicant   was  arrested   and   charged   with   DWI,   2nd
offense  within five  years, and  refusal of breath  test,  2nd  offense, both  misdemeanors. He
pled  guilty to  the  reduced  charge  of misdemeanor reckless driving, and  he  was sentenced
to 90  days in jail, suspended, placed  on unsupervised probation, his driver’s license was
restricted  for six months, and  he  was  fined. The  latter charge  was nolle  prossed.  (SOR
¶¶  1.b, 2.h)  He consumed  around  four to  six  12-ounce  beers at a  party at a  friend’s house.
He decided  to  try to  “sleep  it off” in his car, which he  acknowledged  was “probably not the
best  idea,”   but  his  intention   was  to   leave   the   party,   otherwise  he   likely  would  have
continued   drinking.   He   left  his  keys  in  his  ignition   after   rolling   down   a   window,  but  his
engine  was  off.  He woke  up  when  a  police  officer tapped  on  his door  and  asked  if  he  had
been  drinking, to  which  he  acknowledged  that he  had.  (Tr. at 41-43, 112-115; GE  3, 4, 5)
In   September  2019,   at   age   30,   Applicant  was   charged   and   convicted   of
misdemeanor public swearing/intoxication, and  he  was fined  $50. (SOR ¶¶  1.a, 2.h) He
drank around  three  to  four 12-ounce  beers at  home  and  was  smoking  cigarettes on  the
steps  in  front  of  his  home   when   police   officers,  who   were   walking   through   the
neighborhood,  approached   and   told   him   they  had   received   a   noise   disturbance.  The
officers, who  recognized  him  from  an  incident that  occurred  in  July 2019,  as  discussed
below, “made  a  comment about [the  July 2019  incident],  to  which  I got kind  of,  you  know,
mouthy  with  them  after  that.” The  officers then  “came  up  on  the  steps and  said  that  they
smelled   alcohol.”  After  he   told  the   officers,  “Hey,   you   know,  I’m   on   my  property,  not
bothering  anybody,  not  doing  anything;  you  all came  up  messing  with  me, pretty  much,”
the  officers arrested  him.  He  stated  that  the  police  officer  who  showed  up  to  court told
him that it would only be a civil penalty and not a criminal charge, so he did not fight it
and  paid  the  fine.  He  stated  that  he  should  not  have  listened  to  that  officer.  He
acknowledged that he should have been smart when the police officers approached him
that day and either gone into his house or listened to what they had to say and tried to
diffuse the situation. (Tr. at 43-47, 69-75, 137-141; GE 1, 6)
In February 2022, at age 32, Applicant was arrested and charged with DWI, 2nd
offense within five to ten years, and DWI, refusal of breath test, 2nd offense within ten
years. (SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 2.h) In December 2022, he was convicted of the amended charge of
misdemeanor reckless driving and sentenced  to 30 days  in jail, suspended,  placed on
one year of unsupervised probation, his driver’s license was restricted for six months, he
was ordered to attend a week-long ASAP program and an outpatient program, and he
was fined $250. The latter charge was nolle prossed. (Tr.at 47-52, 141-162; GE 7, 8, 9)
Earlier  that  day,  Applicant  consumed  around  two  to  four  12-ounce  beers.  That
night, he moved his car within his neighborhood to a better parking spot, and when he
got out of his car to see how close he was to the curb, he did not notice that it was still in
reverse, and it rolled back and hit the car behind it. The owner of that car witnessed the
incident and contacted the police. The officer that arrived asked Applicant if he had been
drinking,  and  he  responded  affirmatively.  When  the  officer  asked  Applicant  to  do  a
sobriety  test,  he  refused  because  he  was  not  in  the  car  when  the  officer  arrived.  He
acknowledged at the hearing that he should not have operated his car after he had been
consuming  alcohol,  even  if  it  was  to  move  his  car  to  a  better  parking  spot  in  his
neighborhood. (Tr. at 47-52, 141-162)
Applicant stated that he last consumed alcohol in December 2022. Up until then,
he had been consuming approximately four 12-ounce beers once or twice weekly. As of
the date of the hearing and since December 2022, his driver’s license was still restricted,
he  was  still on probation,  and he  was  in a  19-week  outpatient  alcohol  program,  which
required  him  to  remain  sober  and  attend  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings  twice
weekly. He paid the court-ordered fine in March 2023, and at a date not in the record, he
completed the court-ordered ASAP program. He intended to successfully complete the
19-week outpatient program. He stated that he has not received any other alcohol-related
treatment and he has never received an alcohol-related diagnosis. Although he does not
believe he has an alcohol problem, he stated that  he intends to remain sober, and his
family and friends are supportive of his decision. When asked whether he was choosing
to abstain from alcohol because he wanted to do so or because the outpatient program
required it, he responded:
I’m  doing  it  for, I would  say, both. I kind  of want to, you  know, start  making
better decisions, you  know. I had  plenty of chances, you  know, but  I think
that,  you  know,  now that this  being  the fifth time,  you  know -- or I think that
I just, you  know, just  tired  of,  you  know, making  poor decisions. (Tr.  at 51-
58, 141-162)
In  addition  to  his  alcohol-related  incidents,  Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal
involvement.  In  May  2010,  he  was  charged  and  convicted  of  reckless  driving,
endangering life, limb, and property. He was fined. He was first at a traffic light with other
cars to the side of him, and he intentionally accelerated his car to burn the rubber on his
tires when the light turned green. The police officer who pulled Applicant over told him
that he could smell the rubber from his car tires, and the officer gave him a summons to
appear in court. (SOR ¶ 2.g; Tr. at 58-60, 81-83; GE 4, 5)
In  October  2014,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  assault  on  a  family
member,  and  he  was  found  not  guilty  in  January  2015.  (SOR  ¶  2.e)  He  and  his  then-
girlfriend, now fiancée, got into an argument. As he tried to leave through the front door,
she stood in front of it and continued to yell at him. He asked her to move, she refused,
and he “pushed her out of the way.” He spent the night at his mother’s house. His then-
girlfriend,  now  fiancée,  contacted  the  police.  The  next  day,  he  turned  himself  into  the
police  after  learning  from  his  brother,  who  was  informed  by  his  then-girlfriend,  now
fiancée,  that  there  was  a  warrant  out  for  his  arrest.  He  was  released  on  his  own
recognizance on the condition that he appear at the court date, and a “no contact” order
was issued. She testified at court that she did not recall what happened that night. (Tr. at
60-64, 101-106; GE 3)
In  January  2019,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  assault  on  a  family
member, and the charge was nolle prossed. (SOR ¶ 2.d) He and his then-girlfriend, now
fiancée, got into another argument and “I got really mad and I punched the glass picture
frame that was on the wall and punched a hole in the wall.” He cut his hand as a result.
She  contacted  the  police,  he  was  arrested,  taken  to  jail,  released  on  his  own
recognizance,  and  a  no  contact  order  was  issued.  She  failed  to  appear  at  court.  He
understood that he dealt with his frustration and anger, in 2014 and 2019, inappropriately.
He attended and completed an anger management class in December 2021 and learned
methods  such  as  “try  not  to  argue  back,  don’t  take  an  aggressive  tone,  and  separate
myself from the situation,” that he intends to utilize in the future. (Tr. at 64-68, 115-120;
GE 3; AE B)
In  April  2019,  Applicant  was  charged  and  convicted  of  misdemeanor  reckless
speeding for driving 103 miles per hour (mph) in a 65-mph zone. He was sentenced to
180  days  in  jail,  with  176  days  suspended,  and  fined  $500.  He  spent  two  days  in  jail.
(SOR ¶ 2.c) He was driving home at night after spending the day with his brothers, and
he was speeding, because he was “just tired, just trying to get home.” He did not realize
how fast he was driving. The state trooper who pulled him over asked him if he had been
drinking, which he denied, and the trooper gave him a summons to appear in court. (Tr.
at 69-75, 120-124; GE 1, 4, 6)
In  July  2019,  Applicant  was  charged  with  misdemeanor  violation  of  a  fire
prevention code, and the charge was dismissed in March 2021. (SOR ¶ 2.b) He drank
around three beers and then began working on his car that had been giving him problems.
As  he  attempted  to  trigger  his  car’s  check  engine  light  to  determine  the  source  of  the
problem, he “revved the gas on the car continuously. And then eventually the car caught
on fire.” He did not realize the car was on fire until he saw smoke, and  when he got out
of the car to try to extinguish the fire, he sustained second-degree burns to two toes on
his right foot. A neighbor contacted the fire department when Applicant could not, because
his phone and personal belongings were still inside the car. The firefighters extinguished
the fire, he was transported to the hospital and released the same night, and a fire marshal
charged him with violation of a fire prevention code the next day. (Tr. at 72-75, 124-132;
GE 1, 3, 6)
In  August  2019,  Applicant  was charged  with  misdemeanor  reckless  speeding,  for
driving  101  mph  in a  70-mph  zone. In  November 2020, he  pled  nolo  contendere  and  he
was  sentenced   to  30  days  in  jail,  suspended,  his driver’s  license  was  restricted   for 30
days,  and   he   was  fined   $500.  (SOR  ¶   2.a)  He  lost   track  of  time   while  fishing   with   his
brother,  and  he  was speeding  to  pick up  his children  from  daycare before it closed. The
state  trooper who  pulled  him  over asked  him  if he  had  been  drinking, which  he  denied,
and  the  trooper gave  him  a  summons to  appear in court. He completed  a  mandated  driver
improvement  class,  and  he  understood  that  speed  limits  exist  to  protect him  and  others
on  the  road  and  he  does not intend  to  speed  in the  future.  (Tr. at  75-78,  132-137, 157-
158; GE  1, 6)
At the hearing, Applicant acknowledged that “I made some poor decisions and put
myself in some bad situations.” He stated that he has matured and “I’m hoping to show
the court that I’ve learned and grown from my prior actions and prove that it won’t happen
again.”  He  completed  106  hours  of  community  service  in  November  2020.  He  did  not
begin to receive annual security training until he started working for his current employer
in  January  2021.  Since  receiving  such  training,  he  is  aware  that  holding  a  security
clearance  requires  him  to  abide  by  the  laws,  comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  and
exercise  good  judgment  in  his  decision-making.  He  is  also  aware  of  the  reporting
requirements for security clearance holders. Character references, to include from two of
his  brothers,  his  sister-in-law,  a  former  neighbor,  his  children’s  grandfather,  and  two
friends, attested to his integrity, trustworthiness, and reliability. (Tr. at 23-24, 78, 91-93,
158-162; AE C, D)
