Applicant, 36, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company, as a
software  engineer  since  August  2008.  He  completed  his  first  security  clearance
application in March 2021, disclosing marijuana use from July 2005 to March 2021. He
also  disclosed  obtaining  a  medical  marijuana  license  from  his  state  of  residency  in
2018,  so  that  he  could  use  the  drug  legally  under  his  state’s  law.  Applicant  also
disclosed  two  drug  related  criminal  incidents:  a  December  2008  for  possession  of
marijuana  and  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia,  and  December  2017  citation  for
possession  of  marijuana  and  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia.  The  SOR  alleges
Applicant’s history of marijuana use as well as his 2008 and 2017 drug-related arrests.
(GE 2; AE A)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  July  2005,  the  summer  before  he  entered
college. He used the drug recreationally in social settings while in college. He estimated
that he used the drug at least twice per month. When he moved out on his own in 2010,
after  graduating,  his  use  of  marijuana  increased.  He  reported  that  between  2010  and
2012, he used marijuana at least four  times a month either in social settings or alone.
Between  2012  and  2019,  he  estimated  that  his  marijuana  use  increased  to  once  per
week  in  social  settings.  He  obtained  a  medical  marijuana  license  in  December  2018.
From 2019 and 2021, he used marijuana twice per week, using one-third of a gram from
a  vape  pen  before  bed.  He  no  longer  uses  the  drug  recreationally,  but  for  pain
management and as a sleep aid. He reported having a medical condition that benefits
from  his  use  of  marijuana  as  well  as  lingering  pain  from  an  unspecified  car  accident.
(GE 3)
In  December  2008,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence  of  drugs,  possession  of  marijuana,  and  possession  of  marijuana
paraphernalia.  Applicant  parked  his  car a  short distance  away  from  his  parent’s  home
where  he  was  living  at  the  time,  to  smoke  marijuana.  He  was  observed  by  a  police
officer,  who  approached  the  car.  Upon  smelling  marijuana  coming  from  the  car,  the
officer  asked  Applicant  if  he  was  under  the  influence  of  marijuana,  which  he  denied.
Applicant  consented  to  a  search  of  his  car,  which  revealed  drug  paraphernalia.  The
officer administered a breathalyzer test, but it did not detect any alcohol. Applicant was
arrested  and  transported  to  the  police  station  where  he  gave  a  blood  sample,  which
came  back  positive  for  marijuana.  He  entered  into  a  plea  agreement  in  which  he
pleaded guilty to possession of marijuana and the other charges were dropped. He was
sentenced to ten days in jail, with nine suspended, fined $1,000, and ordered to take a
substance abuse awareness class. He was also placed on probation for one year and
ordered to install an interlock device on his vehicle. (GE 3-5)
In  December  2017,  he  received  a  citation  for  possession  of  marijuana  and
possession  of  marijuana  paraphernalia.  During  a  traffic  stop  for  speeding,  the  officer
smelled  marijuana  coming  from  Applicant’s  car.  Upon  questioning  from  the  officer,
Applicant admitted to having the drug in the vehicle. He had a vaporizer pen, containing
less  than  one  gram  of  marijuana  inside.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  was  sentenced  to
complete  a  pre-trial  diversion  program.  The  court  also  ordered  him  to  complete  a
substance  abuse  class.  During  the  class,  he  tested  positive  for  marijuana,  which  was
permitted  because  he  had  a  valid  a  medical  marijuana  license.  He  completed  the
diversion program in June 2019 and the charges were dismissed. (GE 3)
In his November 2022 response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant reported that
between 2019 and 2022, he continued to use marijuana one or two times per week. In
response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  reported  that  in  June  2022  he  filed  a  motion  to
expunge  the  2017  charges  from  his  record.  He  also  claims  that  he  has  discontinued
marijuana  use  but  did  not  provide  a  date  of  last  use.  He  also  acknowledged  that  his
effort  to  stop  smoking  marijuana  proved  more  difficult  that  he  expected.  He  did  not
provide a sobriety plan or indicate his participation in a sobriety support program. He did
not provide a statement of intent to abstain from future use. (GE 3; AE A-B)
