Applicant is a 74-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked since 1999. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1972. He was married from 1975
until 1982. He remarried in 1985.  He has two adult children.  He served  on active duty
with  the  Navy  for  about  three  months  between  1972  and  1973,  when  he  received  a
general discharge because of a health issue. (Tr. 18-20; GE 1, 2)
At  all  times  relevant  to  this  proceeding,  marijuana  cultivation,  sale,  and
possession  has  been  illegal  under  federal  law.  Federal  laws  regarding  marijuana
supersede any state laws that are inconsistent with it. Applicant was granted access to
classified information at all times relevant hereto. (Tr. 17; GE 1-4)
In  about  June  2019, after a  change  in  state law  regarding marijuana  in  State  A
where he resides, Applicant created a limited liability company (LLC) for the purpose of
cultivating  and  selling  medical  marijuana  for  profit.  He  and  his  wife  created  the  LLC
because they thought it was legal and because they saw it as an opportunity to provide
a job for their son, who lacked stable employment. Applicant felt he could also draw on
his  experience  as  a  farmer  when  he  was  younger.  They  complied  with  State  A’s
regulatory requirements and paid about $25,000 of their own money to create and run
the  business.  He  left  day  to  day  operations  of  the  business,  including  the  marijuana
cultivation,  to  his  son,  who  lived  about  an  hour-and-a-half  away  from  Applicant.  He
visited  the  operating  location  of  the LLC once.  The  LLC was  never  profitable,  partially
because  their  marijuana  crop  never  met  State  A’s  testing  requirements  for  quality.
There is no evidence that the LLC ever sold any marijuana. (Tr. 17-18, 20-24; GE 2, 3,
6)
In June 2021, when it came time to renew the LLC’s operating license with State
A,  Applicant  did  not  renew  it.  He  made  this  decision  because  the  business  was  not
profitable  and  because  his son  found other, stable employment.  The  LLC is no  longer
operational and its status with State A has been inactive since June 2021. The LLC still
owns  assets,  such  as pots, heat  lamps,  and a  hoop  house, but he plans  to divest  the
LLC of those assets. His  ability  to do so  was  delayed and  hampered  by his colorectal
cancer  diagnosis  in  October  2022,  for  which  he  received  radiation  and  chemotherapy
treatment.  He  now  believes  he  is  cancer  free,  so  he  will  take  the  steps  necessary  to
wind down the LLC. The LLC does not currently own any marijuana or federally illegal
paraphernalia.  He  has  no  intention  to  be  involved  with  illegal,  controlled  substances
ever again, and claimed that if he had known it was illegal under federal law, he would
never have become involved. (Tr. 17-18, 20-30; GE 1-3, 6)
About every year-and-a-half since 2009, Applicant has received training from his
employer  regarding  his  responsibilities  as  a  security  clearance  holder.  This  training
informed  Applicant  that  the  use  of  illegal,  controlled  substances,  among  other  things,
could  result  in  the  loss  of  his  security  clearance.  While  he  never  notified  his  facility
security officer about the LLC or the nature of its operations, there is no evidence that
the training informed him that he had to inform his employer that he had registered an
outside business or that he was  cultivating an illegal controlled substance.  He testified
that he believed there was no reporting requirement for registering a business or a duty
to report that he started a business that was cultivating marijuana. He also testified that,
because  it  was  legal  pursuant  to  state  law,  he  did  not  know  that  cultivating  marijuana
was illegal pursuant to federal law or that it could affect his security clearance eligibility.
In  about  March  2020,  while  the  LLC  was  operational,  one  of  the  LLC’s  creditors,  a
credit-card  company,  canceled  the  LLC’s  credit  card  because  of  the  nature  of  its
transactions. While acknowledging the cancellation, he testified that he still thought the
LLC  operations  were  legal  because  it  was  properly  licensed  with  State  A  and  legal
pursuant to the laws of State A. I observed him testify and found his testimony credible.
(Tr. 17-18, 23, 25-28; 30-32; GE 2, 3, 5)
Under Guideline  H  in the  SOR, the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  operation  of
the   LLC   while  granted   access  to   classified   information   or  holding   a   sensitive  position.
Under  Guideline   E   in   the   SOR,   the   Government   alleged   his  failure  to   report  his
operation  of the  LLC to  his facility security officer and  cross-alleged  the  operation  of the
LLC.  (SOR;  Answer)
