Under  Guideline  H,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  used  marijuana
between 1991 and at least February 2023 (SOR 1.a); that between 2015 and 2022, he
purchased  marijuana  (SOR  1.b);  that  in  October  2010,  he  used  Vicodin  without  a
prescription  (SOR  1.c);  and  that  in  1994,  and  between  2000  and  2007,  he  used
methamphetamine (SOR 1.f).
It is further alleged that in December 1994, he was arrested and charged with the
sale  or  transportation  of  a  controlled  substance  and  possession  of  methamphetamine
(SOR  1.j);  that  from  1993  to  1996,  he  sold  cocaine  (SOR  1.i);  that  in  1998,  he  was
arrested and charged with possession of a controlled substance for sale (SOR 1.h); that
in  2007,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  and
being under the influence of a controlled substance (SOR 1.g); and that in 2010, he was
arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of  a  narcotic  controlled  substance  (SOR  1.d).
Finally, it was alleged that in 2009, he was ordered to undergo treatment for his drug use,
which he failed to successfully complete (SOR 1.e). (FORM, Item 1)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  Government  cross-alleged  the  Guideline  H  allegations
(SOR 2.a). It also was alleged that Applicant intentionally made false official statements
in response to questions in Section 22 (Police Record – EVER) of his August 2022 e-QIP
by failing to list the facts alleged in SOR 1.d, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j (SOR 2.b). The SOR also
alleged  that  Applicant  intentionally  made  a  false  official  statement  in  response  to
questions in Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his August 2022 e-QIP
by failing to list the facts alleged in SOR 1.a (SOR 2.c). (FORM, Item 1)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  without  comment,  each  of  the
allegations.  (Form,  Item  1)  All  of  the  allegations  are  also  supported  by  disclosures  he
made in his e-QIP; by statements he made during a personal subject interview (PSI) on
October 26 and 28, 2022; by a report of arrest information from the FBI’s Criminal Justice
Information Services Division; and by his responses to interrogatories from Department
Counsel  on  March  15,  2023.  (FORM,  Items  2  –  4)  After  reviewing  all  of  the  available
information, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  of  a  company  contracted  with  the  federal
government to perform duties in support of a military facility. He requires eligibility for a
public trust position to access his work location. He is a high school graduate, has never
married, and has one child, now age 21. (FORM, Items 2 and 3)
Applicant started using marijuana in 1991, when he was about 15 or 16 years old.
At times, he smoked as many as five joints a day. He reduced and eventually ceased his
marijuana use by September 2022, because he was trying to find work and knew he might
have  to  undergo  urinalysis  testing.  In  2015, he  started  buying  marijuana  from  medical
marijuana  dispensaries  in  his  home  state,  where  personal  possession  and  use  of
marijuana has been legalized. Although he claims his use of marijuana has never caused
him  personal  or  professional  difficulties,  in  2009,  as  alleged  in  SOR  1.e,  a  local  child
protective services agency (CPS) ordered him to undergo rehabilitative drug treatment
after his then-8-year-old child made remarks about his drug use to someone at her school.
Because he did not complete the treatment, his daughter was placed in foster care and
eventually  adopted.  In  his  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories  on  March  15,  2023,  he
disclosed that he had last used marijuana a total of five times on two days in February
2023, six months after he submitted his e-QIP. He also averred that he does not intend
to use marijuana in the future. In his e-QIP, he did not list his failed drug treatment (as
required by Section 23) because  he  ‘did not want to  relive  it.” He did not list his use  of
marijuana (also as required by Section 23) because he does not believe marijuana use
is a bad thing. (FORM, Items 2 and 3)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation  of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February  2013  makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the
various states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the current National
Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this
issue, Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of location or medical justification  in his
state of residence, is illegal. Further, illegal drug use is prohibited in all federal workplaces
and on all military installations by civilian federal employees and by persons employed
for work on federal contracts.
Between  1994  and  2009,  Applicant  used  and  sold  other  federally  controlled
substances. Specifically, he sold, but did not use, cocaine from 1993 to 1996. He used
methamphetamine (crystal meth) in 1994 because a girl he liked used it. He also used
crystal meth between 2000 and 2007, again because his girlfriend used it. He used it daily
but decided to stop using it when he noticed it affected his thinking and gave him what he
referred to as a ”light brain.” (FORM, Items 1 and 3)
Applicant was arrested in 1994 and charged with possession of crystal meth and
with possession of a controlled substance for sale. In 1996, he was sentenced to three
years’ probation. During probation, he was required to undergo random urinalysis testing.
Twice he tested positive for marijuana. After the second positive test, he was ordered to
complete  a  drug  rehabilitation  program  and  his  probation  was  restarted  pending
completion of the rehab program. He completed rehab in 1998  and probation in 1999.
Applicant disclosed his arrest, rehab, and probation in his e-QIP. (FORM, Items 2 – 4)
SOR 1.h alleges Applicant also was arrested in 1998 and charged with possession
of a  controlled  substance for sale. In his PSI,  he  stated he did not remember such an
arrest and there is no information about a disposition of this charge. It is likely the entry
in the FBI report is related to the 1996 conviction discussed above. SOR 1.h is resolved
for Applicant. (FORM, Items 3 and 4)
Applicant was arrested in November 2007 and charged with possession, and being
under the influence, of a controlled substance (crystal meth). During a search incident to
a  traffic  stop,  a  plastic  bag  containing  crystal  meth  residue  was  found  in  Applicant’s
pocket. He acknowledged he had used crystal meth earlier that day but had forgotten to
get rid of the bag. He spent three days in jail before the charges were dismissed. He did
not disclose this arrest because he viewed it as a minor event when compared to his 1994
arrest. (FORM, Items 2 – 4)
In October 2010, Applicant used a pain reliever – Vicodin – without a prescription.
Use  of  Vicodin  requires  a  prescription  because  it  is  an  opiate-based  medication.
Applicant’s niece gave him three Vicodin pills after he developed a migraine headache.
He took one of the pills and kept the other two. Later in the day, a friend of his asked him
if he had anything for a headache and Applicant traded one of the Vicodin pills for a single
dose of Oxycontin, also a prescription pain reliever. On October 19, 2010, Applicant was
stopped  by  police  on suspicion  of  selling  illegal drugs.  A  consensual search  produced
unprescribed Vicodin and Oxycontin in his possession. After a few days in jail, the charges
were dismissed. Applicant did not disclose this arrest in his e-QIP because he forgot about
it. (FORM, Items 2 – 4)
