Applicant was born in the South Korea in 1972. His parents, now deceased, were
South Korean citizens. He graduated from high school in 1990 in South Korea. He met
his future wife in 1990, while in high school. He has had no further formal education in
South Korea, but he took some college courses in the United States. Applicant’s father
immigrated to the United States and initiated Applicant’s immigration papers. He entered
the United States in 1992, and he promised his wife that he would return to South Korea
to be with her. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in January 1994. His MOS was aviation. He
served in the United States until November 1995 when he was reassigned to a position
he requested in South Korea. He explained that the Army needed him to serve in South
Korea. In 1996, he married his high school girlfriend, a South Korean citizen and resident,
in  South  Korea.  They  have  three  children  who  were  born  in  South  Korea  in  1999  and
2004 (twins). Applicant wrote in the e-QIP that his children are U.S. citizens. In April 2001,
Applicant was honorably discharged from the Army. He has lived in South Korea since
then. In 2011 he began working as an aircraft mechanic for a DoD contractor in South
Korea. He has not previously held a security clearance. He is seeking national security
eligibility in connection with his employment. (Tr. at 24-26, 32-35, 43-45, 50-51, 56; 79;
GE 1 at 7-19, 24-27, 35.)
For a period, Applicant returned to the United States for an Army Medical Board
due to a back injury, but then he returned to continue his service in South Korea in about
1998 to be with his wife. Applicant became a U.S. citizen in 2000. He claimed in the e-
QIP that he is not a dual  citizen of the U.S. and South Korea, but rather is only a U.S
citizen. He claimed that he signed a paper to renounce his South Korean citizenship. He
and his wife has traveled  to the United States  for  three short periods  so that  she may
qualify for a resident alien card. (Tr. at 46-49; GE 1 at 8-9.)
Applicant’s work commute takes about 90 minutes to two hours each way. He gets
up at 4:30 am and returns home at 6:30 or 7:00 pm. He describes himself as “just a normal
daddy, 51 years old, overweight, and losing hair.” As a result of his work and commuting
schedule, he does not socialize with anyone at work. He admitted that, with English as
his  secondary  language,  he  has  difficulty  with  certain  words  and  struggles  sometimes
with an English dictionary. (Tr. at 26-27.)
Applicant commented that one reason he would be reluctant to leave South Korea
and reside in the United States is that there is no gun violence in South Korea, whereas
he believes that the United States has significant safety issues with guns. He also noted
that he has no family other than his oldest son in the United States. He testified that at
his age, it would be difficult for him to adjust to living in a different country. (Tr. at 85.)
Paragraph 1 - Guideline B, Foreign Influence
In his Answer, Applicant admitted without explanation each of the allegations in
this paragraph of the SOR. His testimony regarding the allegations was as follows:
SOR ¶  1.a. Applicant, Resident of South Korea Since at least 2001. Applicant has
only returned to the United States since 1995 on four brief occasions. (Tr. at 43-49.)
SOR ¶ 1.b. Applicant’s Wife, Citizen and Resident of South Korea. Applicant’s wife
is from a rural part of South Korea. She is a housewife and has never worked outside of
the home. (Tr. at 26, 55; GE 1 at 9-12, 17-19.)
SOR ¶ 1.c.  Applicant’s Children, Residents of South Korea. Applicant’s oldest child
was educated in South Korean and now resides and is employed in the United States.
His twins are students in a university in South Korea, and they reside with Applicant and
his wife. (Tr. at 52-55; GE 1 at 24-27.)
SOR  ¶   1.d   Applicant’s  Mother-in-Law,  a  Citizen  and  Resident  of  South  Korea.
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  85  years  old  and  lives  by  herself.  His  father-in-law  is
deceased. Applicant speaks with his mother-in-law by telephone every other month and
sees her in person once a year. His wife speaks with her mother almost daily. His mother-
in-law lives about a four-hour drive from Applicant’s home. (Tr. at 26, 55, 91-92; GE 1 at
27-29.)
SOR ¶  1.e South Korean Bank Account of Applicant’s Wife. Applicant has two U.S.
bank accounts. He has one account in the United States. He has a second bank account
through DoD, which is overseas. His paycheck is deposited in the DoD bank account as
U.S. dollars. He withdraws the deposit as cash. His wife then converts the U.S. dollars to
South  Korea’s currency  and deposits the cash in her South Korean bank account. His
wife also manages their household finances. The  funds in his wife’s account  represent
almost all of their assets. (Tr. at 57-59, 63.)
Applicant also has a South Korean bank account, but he has limited funds in that
account and intends to close it. He opened this account before he became a U.S. citizen.
He has no retirement accounts, but he does pay U.S. Social Security taxes. He does not
own his home in South Korea. (Tr. at 59-62.)
Paragraph 2 – Guideline E, Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶  2.a  Falsification  in  e-QIP  for  Failure  to  Disclose  South  Korean  Bank
Account of Applicant’s Wife. Section 20A of the e-QIP asks, “Have you, your spouse, or
legally recognized civil union/domestic partner, cohabitant, or dependent children EVER
had any foreign financial interests that someone controlled on your behalf?” (Emphasis
in  originally.)  Applicant  incorrectly  answered  “No”  to  this  question.  The  Government
alleged  in  the  SOR  that  his  negative  response  was  a  deliberate  falsification.  In  the
Answer, Applicant admitted this allegation with an explanation. He wrote that he did not
answer the e-QIP question correctly because he did not read the question carefully. He
further  explained  that  a  South  Korean  bank  account  was  necessary  in  his  country
because U.S. credit cards and U.S. dollars are not acceptable forms of payments for any
transaction in the country. (Answer at 3.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  intend  to  omit  the  information
about  the  bank  account.  He  believes  that  he  did  not  read  the  entire  question  and
misunderstood  what  the  question  was  seeking.  When  the  investigator  who  conducted
Applicant’s background interview explained the question to Applicant, he understood and
voluntarily disclosed his wife’s South Korean bank account. (Tr. at 76-79, 84.)
Character Evidence
Three  of Applicant’s long-time colleagues, including two supervisors, testified as
character witnesses. Applicant’s immediate supervisor has known Applicant for about 15
years. They have a professional and a personal relationship. He believes that Applicant
is trustworthy and reliable. He does not believe that Applicant has any conflicting loyalties
between the United States and South Korea. Applicant’s higher-level supervisor testified
that he  has  known  Applicant  for  about  15  years.  They  also  have a  professional and a
personal  relationship.  He  testified  that,  although  Applicant  lives  in  South  Korea,  his
allegiance is to the United States. A third witness, a work colleague, stated that he has
known Applicant for about 15 years.  He testified  that Applicant is “an  outstanding  guy”
and is dedicated and trustworthy. (Tr. at 35-42, 65-69, 79-83.)
South Korea
Applicant and his wife have significant contact with South Korea. Accordingly, it is
appropriate to look at the current conditions in that country. North Korea and South Korea
remain technically at war following a 1953 armistice agreement. Bilateral tensions remain
moderately  high  and  have  escalated  to  limited  confrontations  in  the  past.  In  the  last
decade, provocations by North Korea have included ballistic missile tests, nuclear tests,
and attacks on South Korea-held territory. In 2022 North Korea has test-launched almost
40 missiles. Industrial espionage remains a high-profile concern relating to South Korea
and  South  Korean  companies.  North  Korean  actors  have  increased  their  cyber
capabilities and efforts in targeting South Korea in recent years.
South Korea is overwhelmingly pro-United States. There are approximately 28,500
U.S. troops stationed in the country. Nevertheless, there have been periods of increased
anti-U.S. sentiment due to high-profile accidents and crimes committed by U.S. service
members. Some incidents have resulted in anti-U.S. protest activity.
