Applicant,  49,  is  a  systems  administrator  currently  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since September 2013. He received an associate’s degree in February 2012,
a  bachelor’s degree  in  May 2013, and  a master’s degree  in May 2015. He cohabitated
with his fiancée from September 2005 until May 2020, when their relationship ended and
Applicant moved out. He has three, ages 19, 17, and 12. He currently holds a security
clearance. (GX 1; Tr. 32-36.)
The  SOR,  as  amended,  alleges  24  delinquent  accounts  totaling  $120,663.  The
debts  are  comprised  of  13  delinquent  student-loan  accounts  totaling  $106,636  and  9
delinquent  credit-card  accounts  totaling  $14,027.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
admits  each  of  the  debts  and  provides  an  explanation  regarding  the  circumstances
surrounding his financial delinquencies. He listed his total delinquent student loan debt
on  his  February  2020  e-QIP.  The  delinquent  debts  are  reflected  in  Applicant’s  credit-
bureau reports (CBR) and Applicant discussed them with the investigator during his May
2020 personal subject interview (PSI). (GX 1 through GX 6.) Applicant’s admissions are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  worked  at  a  company’s  manufacturing  facility  from  2005  until  the
company  outsourced  its  manufacturing  and  closed  the  facility  in  2010.  He  was
unemployed from 2010 until April 2012. While unemployed, he concluded that his career
was going  nowhere and  decided  to  get  a  college  degree.  After earning  his associate’s
degree, Applicant worked for a software company as a support technician from April 2012
until August 2013. During that time, he earned his bachelor’s degree and in September
2013 started working in his current position. (AX A; GX 1.)
From 2010 until 2015, Applicant attended a university from which he received all
three of his degrees. The university offered in-person and online classes. Applicant met
with a recruiter at the university who advised him that the payment of the student loans
that he was incurring would be an easy and affordable repayment process. At the time
that he borrowed the money to fund his higher education, and after completing his course
of  studies  in  2015,  Applicant  did  not  have  a  firm  understanding  of  the  student-loan
repayment process. (AX A; GX 2; Tr.????)
It is relevant to note that the practices of the university Applicant attended have
been  challenged  in  multiple  lawsuits  to  include  several  class  actions.  Recently,  the
university was part of a class-action lawsuit that claimed the listed schools defrauded their
students  through  misrepresentations  and  actions  that  constituted  predatory  lending
practices. The class is comprised of students/former students with federal student loans
used to attend any of the listed schools who filed or are eligible to file a borrower defense
application  to  oppose  repayment  of  their  student  loans.  The  class-action  settlement
received final approval on November 16, 2022. https://studentaid.gov
Approximately six months after graduation, Applicant received his first repayment
notice he was stunned by the approximately $1,400 monthly payment. This amount was
approximately  one  half  of  his  monthly  income  and  was  not  affordable  for  him.  He
contacted the Department of Education (DOE), which was the creditor of his loan, and
attempted to work out an affordable repayment agreement. The DOD representative was
stated that Applicant was required to pay the full monthly payment. Unable to do so, he
defaulted student-loan repayments. (AX A; GX 2; Tr.????)
In April 2017, DOE began garnishing Applicant’s wages in the approximate amount
of  $260  to  $285  every  two  weeks.  DOE  also  seized  Applicant’s  federal  and  state  tax
refunds. Although he was frustrated by the fact that the total monthly payment through
the garnishment was affordable to him and something to which he would have agreed to
given  the opportunity, he  was, nonetheless  relieved that the  loans were  in  repayment.
Inquiry into a loan with habilitation program the information he read stated that he needed
to make eight consecutive payments to the loan, but he was unable to ascertain whether
or not the garnishment payments would also continue, thus creating a scenario where he
was making a double monthly payment which was not something he was able to afford.
The garnishment remained in place until the March 13, 2020, COVID-19 payment pause.
See https://studentaid.gov Applicant’s payments total between $16,000 and $17,000. (AX
A; GX 2; GX 1.) The student-loan debts are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.k, 1.n, and
1.q.
In approximately 2018, in an effort to appease his fiancée, Applicant began using
his credit cards more frequently for more extravagant entertainment and purchases than
was his general practice. At the time, Applicant’s fiancée was contributing to the payments
on  the  credit  cards.  By  late  2018/early  2019,  Applicant  had  financially  overextended
himself with his credit card usage and was unable to make the required monthly payments
on several accounts. He was also in a car accident during this period and was responsible
for  his  deductible,  which  created  additional  financial  strain.  The  delinquent  credit-card
accounts are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.l, 1.m, 1.o, 1.p, and 1.r through 1.v. (GX 2; AX A.)
In May 2020, Applicant’s fiancée terminated their relationship and Applicant moved
out. He rented a small two-bedroom apartment which he had to furnish in its entirety. His
then 16-year-old daughter moved in with him full time and his son, then 9, lived with him
half of the time. Applicant was responsible for the increased living expenses necessarily
incurred  by  his  children,  as  well  as  school-related  items  such  as  clothing,  backpacks,
supplies, etc. (AX A; Tr.????)
In spring 2020, Applicant began consulting with several friends, including his direct
supervisor, about managing personal finances, including strategies for paying off debt.
Based on the advice he received, he structured a plan for resolving his debts. He realized
that he needed an overall better understanding of how credit worked, so he subscribed
to a free credit- monitoring program through which he began to study how credit worked
and closely monitor his credit. (AX A; Tr.???)
In approximately May 2020, in accordance with his plan, Applicant determined that
he needed to restructure his car-loan debts because he was paying very high interest on
his two car loans. He made two withdrawals from his 401(k), each withdrawal was for the
exact amount of the payoff on each of the two car loans and paid the car loans off. He
also  contacted  DOE  to  make  arrangements  to  enter  a  student-loan  rehabilitation
agreement. He then contacted all of the creditors of his delinquent accounts that he was
able  to  identify  from  the  list  available  through  his  credit-monitoring  company.  (AX  A:
Tr.???)
In May 2022, Applicant received a letter from DOE stating that he had successively
rehabilitated his student loans, that the loans were now in good standing, and that they
had been  transferred to  a  loan  servicer. The  loan  servicer consolidated  Applicant’s 13
loans into a single account with a monthly payment of $223. However, due to the payment
pause, Applicant’s monthly payments are not scheduled to begin until August 31, 2023.
In  accordance  with  his  repayment  agreement,  the  loan-servicer  will  annually  review
Applicant’s salary to determine the amount of the monthly payments based on his income.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.k, 1.n, and 1.q, totaling $106,636, are in good standing. (AX B; AX
C; AX D; Tr.???)
In  September 2022, Applicant settled  the  $661  credit-card debt  alleged  in SOR  ¶
1.u. In  December 20, he  settled  the  $1,186  credit-card debt alleged  in SOR  ¶  1.s. (AX  H;
AX  G.) He contacted  the  creditor of the  credit-card debts alleged  in SOR ¶¶  1.l ($3,263)
1.m  ($2,459), and  1.p  ($1,639) and  attempted  to  consolidate  the  three  debts and  make
one  monthly payment, but the  creditor would not permit  this.  Applicant created  an  account
for each  of these  debts at the  creditor’s website  where  he  will  make  payments  as he  is
able. (AX A; Tr.???)
The  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.o,  1.r,  1.t,  and  1.v  are  not  listed  on  the  reports
generated  by  the  credit-monitoring  company  that  Applicant  uses.  The  accounts  are
charged off and he stated that they have been sold to collection agencies that he has not
been  able  to  locate.  Department  Counsel  suggested  that  Applicant  use  the  contact
information and the account numbers from the original creditors listed on the December
2021 CBR to try to track down contact information for the collection agencies. Applicant
agreed that this was an approach that he would try. (AX A; Tr.????)
Since 2013, when he started working for his current employer, Applicant always
received a state tax refund until tax year 2021. He did not alter his withholding status and
was  surprised  to  learn that he  owed  approximately $1,800  in  state taxes  for 2021.  He
satisfied the tax debt through a monthly-payment plan. (Tr.????)
In order to avoid owing state taxes for tax year 2022, Applicant used several online
tax  calculators  to  ensure  that  he  was  withholding  the  proper  amount.  Despite  the
confirming information that he received from using the online calculators, Applicant owed
state taxes for 2022 in the amount of $1,300. He contacted the state treasurer to make
payment arrangements prior to April 18, the due date, but was informed that he would
have to wait until after the due date for an official statement from the treasurer regarding
the amount that he owes. The treasurer stated that official notices will be sent out between
one week and one month after the due date. Once Applicant receives the official notice,
he will be able to make payment arrangements. He is awaiting the terms of the repayment
before he obligates himself to repayment of his remaining credit-card debts. In order to
prevent future state-tax liability, he is having an additional $60 a paycheck deducted for
his state taxes. (AX A; Tr.???)
Applicant contributes $200 a month  to  his son’s mother for his son’s support as
well  as  providing  for  the  purchase  of  necessary  items  such  as  clothing  and  school
supplies. Applicant drives approximately 180 miles per day to go to and from work. He
retains  ownership  of  his  two  older  vehicles  to  ensure  that  at  least  one  of  them  is
mechanically  sound  enough  to  make  the  daily  round  trip.  Because  of  the  age  of  the
vehicles and the high usage of them, he routinely has maintenance costs and recently
spent approximately $500 for new tires on one of his vehicles.
On  the advice  she received in  credit counseling, Applicant has been  working to
reestablish her credit. She has opened new credit-card accounts with six of the creditors
of the SOR debts. She was advised to maintain small balances on several accounts long
enough  for  the  accounts  to  be  reported,  then  pay  the  balance  of  the  accounts.
Additionally, Applicant stated that there are several circumstances, such as travel and car
rental, where a credit card is required. (Tr. 77-81.)
Since beginning her current job, Applicant has maintained a written budget. She
bought her house in 2014 and her October 2022 CBR shows her mortgage-loan payment
history beginning in May 2015. She has never made a late payment. She refinanced her
house in June 2021 at a considerably lower interest rate. Applicant uses an application
on  her  cell  phone  to  monitor  her  accounts  and  her  credit  score.  The  application  also
provides credit-management tips. Applicant is current on her ongoing financial obligations
and has not incurred any recent delinquent debt. She has a checking account, savings
account, and makes contributions to a 401(k). She has a net monthly remainder. (AX J;
Tr. 49-50; Tr. 82.)
Applicant submitted five character-reference letters written by the people who were
waiting  to testify during  the hearing.  Coworker and friend  for more than  ten  years and
considers Applicant to be reliable, trustworthy, and dedicated. Applicant’s coworker and
friend since 2015 considers Applicant to be reliable, professional, and trustworthy. She
states  that  Applicant  exercises  good  judgment  and  has  an  outstanding  work  ethic.
Applicant was sincere and credible during her testimony. (AX K.)
