Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from approximately May 2016 to December 2018 and that he used marijuana
in about October 2020 while granted access to classified information. He admits each of
these allegations. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges that Applicant falsified his February 26, 2021,
e-QIP  by  intentionally  failing  to  disclose  his  marijuana  use  in  about  October  2020;  by
intentionally failing to disclose his 2020 marijuana while possessing a security clearance;
and  that  he  falsified  his  October  1,  2019,  e-QIP  by  intentionally  failing  to  disclose  his
marijuana use from approximately May 2016 to December 2018.
Applicant,  26,  is a  senior information  technology consultant  currently  employed  by
a  defense  contractor since  November 2019. He received  his bachelor’s degree  in   May
2019. (GX 3.)
Applicant completed his first e-QIP in 2019. He answered “No” to the question that
asked if he had used any illegal drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years.
He was granted a secret security clearance in November 2019. (GX 3; GX 4.)
On  his February 2021  e-QIP  in response  to  the  same  question  about his drug  use
in the  last  seven  years, Applicant stated  that he  used  THC (marijuana) “less than  three
times in college” and  listed  his dates of use  as May 2016  (estimated) to  December 2018.
When  asked  to  provide  an  explanation  of why he  did  not intend  to  use  marijuana  in the
future,  Applicant stated  “I will/have  not been  using  this drug  prior to  my initial employment
due  to  security clearance  regulations that THC is an  illegal substance  per governmental
law.” (GX 1.)
On  March 23, 2021, Applicant underwent a  personal subject  interview (PSI) as part
of his background investigation. He verified the investigator’s summary of the interview in
response  to  DOHA’s interrogatories on  April 6, 2022. During  his PSI,  Applicant told the
investigator the  information  on  his February 2021  e-QIP  was accurate  except that he  also
used  marijuana  one  more time  in  October 2020  while  possessing  a  security clearance.
He stated  that he  did not know why he  did not  list this most recent use. He  then  stated  he
“did  not report this most recent use  to  his organization  because  he  did not know what the
repercussions  would  have  on  his job  status.” He further stated  that he  “wasn’t  told  what
the  reporting  requirements were  and  was therefore not sure if he  would be  required  to
report his use  to his organization.” (GX 2.)
In his answer to the amended SOR, Applicant stated:
In  2019,  I completed  an  e-QIP  for my first professional job. It  was  the  first
time  I had  applied  for a  security clearance. I did  not disclose  that I had  used
marijuana  between  2016  and  2018. . . . I blame  my own omission  on  my
ignorance  of the  process as well as my failure to  pay attention  to  detail when
completing  such  forms. At the  time, I did not fully understand  the  significant
consequences   my   actions  could   have   on   my  future   and   my  ability  to
progress   in  my   chosen   field.  I  did  not   receive  an   in-brief  at   my   new  job
explaining the e-QIP process and  the pitfalls.
From   2016   to   2018,  I   was  in  my  first  few  years  of  college,  and   I  used
marijuana  with  friends.  I was young  and  immature and  not thinking  about
how  my  decisions   could  negatively   impact  my   future.  The   use   was
infrequent  and   never   resulted   in  anyone   questioning   my  judgment,
character, or reliability.
Applicant further stated, “the 2020 use was an outlier and not consistent with my
behavior and 2020.”
I was put in  for a  higher level fill  out another e-QIP  when  I completed  the  e-
QIP on February 26, 2021, I unintentionally omitted my use of marijuana in
October 2020.  . .  . During  my interview with  the  investigator, I realized  I had
omitted  the  2020  use  when  completing  the  e-QIP  and  I reported  it. I did so
because  my failure to  include  the  information  on  the  form  was an  oversight.
It was not intentional. .  . .
During his testimony, Applicant stated:
And  when  it came  to  the  marijuana  section, I  mean  at the  time  I  was right
out of college, I was scared  if I were  to  say yes or no. What does that mean
if I were  to  get rejected?  That’s a  huge  impact on  my  job, right.  So  I think
not understanding  the  process and  being  truthful in your answers, no  matter
what that is if it’s going  to negatively impact you  are not a  thing that’s really
the  main thing. (Tr. 23.)
So  during  the  time,  so  my interview,  if I  recall, was back in  2021. And  during
the  time, I was answering  all  the  questions… And  she  asked  if I recall  doing
marijuana. Have  I  ever  done  it?  And  I  was,  like, yes.  I have  done  it in  2016
and  2018,  throughout  college,  very briefly, periodically. I was, again, I  was
a  college  student.  . . . I was very busy all  the  time, but I say I maybe  did it
twice a year. (Tr. 24.)
So  that’s something  that I, looking  back on, if  I were to  go and resubmit the
form  again, no  matter what I’ve  done, parking  tickets,  if I’ve  gotten  arrested,
you  have  to  put it on  there. You  can’t lie  about  that.  Because  there’s always
ways to  find  that out, whether it’s in the court  or if there sifting through your
friends. There’s always  ways to  find  things. So  I think it’s just  the  right thing
to do, is just be honest and truthful. (Tr. 25.)
During cross-examination, the following exchange occurred:
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: When you completed your first e-QIP in October of
2019, you did not disclose your marijuana use while in college.
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  And   you’re   saying   it’s  because   you   breezed
through the form  and  missed  the questions about that?
APPLICANT: Breezed through the form and then just being nervous about
submitting the, well, if I were to say yes, I had smoked marijuana from 2016
to  2018  when  I  graduated,  I  would  be  scared  of  that.  That  was  going  to
impact my ability to obviously move from [my former state of residence], and
start a new life, and working in this field, so yes.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  Okay.  So  you  chose  not  to  include  that
information, because you were concerned it would affect your chances of
getting a job?
APPLICANT: Yes, sir. (Tr. 39.)
While  holding  a  security  clearance,  Applicant  used  marijuana  in  October  2020
while attending a party:
APPLICANT’S ATTORNEY: So even at the party, did you realize how stupid
you were?
APPLICANT:  Yes.  So   admittedly  I   took  a   couple   of   hits  of  it,   and   I
immediately  realized   –   and   I   jumped,  what  are  you   doing?   Why  are   you
doing this? So I immediately removed  myself from the situation. There was
[sic] people  that  were  around  me  that they  were  mutual friends  or  friends of
friends. And  I was,  like,  why am  I  doing  this? Like,  if I were to  get caught,  or
if somebody were to find out about this, that’s not good. (Tr. 26.)
When   asked   by  Department  Counsel  if  he   was  aware   that  holding   a   security
clearance  meant that he  could  not use  marijuana  or  other illegal substances,  Applicant
stated, “I  did understand that, to  be  honest, at the time. I did.” (Tr. 42.)
The following  exchange regarding Applicant’s failure to  disclose his October 2020
marijuana   use   while  holding   a   security  clearance   on   his  2021   e-QIP   occurred   during
cross-examination:
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: And this form was filled out February 2021.
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:   Approximately  four  months  after  you  used
marijuana at the party.
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: You did not list that marijuana use on this form.
Why not?
APPLICANT: Again, I’d  say it’s negligence, the  process, and  being  afraid of
what the  ramifications would be  if I were to  say yes on  this occurrence  in
October that I did use  marijuana for -- I did use marijuana.
So  again,  like  I’ve  said  before,  being  not  mature  to  the  process,  not
understanding the ramifications I would have behind that if I were to submit
fictitious or false information, or hide the information, what it would have on
my career.
So  going  back,  if  I  were  to  go  back,  if  I  had  the  ability,  I  would  say  yes,
absolutely, I did do that.
Because  again,  I  think  with  the  maturity  and  where  I’m  at  now  in
understanding  the  process,  that  is  my  due  diligence,  and  that’s  the  right
thing to do. But that’s my response, sir.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: So just so you understand, we want to know if
your omission of that fact was deliberate or intentional. And it sounds like it
was deliberate that you, on purpose left that information off of this form. Is
that correct?
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:   So your claims of  making mistakes, or being
negligent in filling out this form, aren't really accurate, then.
APPLICANT: I wouldn’t say that.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:   Well,  we discussed earlier,  the first form  you
filled  out,  the  first  clearance  you  filled  out,  you  didn’t  list  the  information
about your college drug use, because you were afraid you would get the
clearance. Is that right?
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: And then the second form you filled out, you
didn’t  list  the  fact  that  you  used  marijuana  at  a  party  while  holding  a
clearance, because you were afraid of the consequences.
APPLICANT: Yes, sir.
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: Is that right?
APPLICANT: Yes, sir. That’s correct.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  So  it  was  a  willful  omission,  it  wasn’t  just
negligence. Is that correct?
APPLICANT: No.  It  was willful, but to  be  honest,  that’s  something  I  honestly
even   buried,  because   I  wasn’t   there  for  an   extended   use   of  time   using
marijuana.  I  literally,  I   buried   it.   And   is  that   the   right  thing   to   do?   No,   of
course  not.   But   was  it  intentional  to   leave   it  off   there,  to   answer  your
question, yes, I did intentionally leave it off there, off the form.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  And   do   you   understand   why  that’s  more
significant  to  us than  using marijuana three times in college?
APPLICANT: Yeah, absolutely. Because, I mean, while having  a  clearance,
and  if  you’re  going  to  lie  about  that,  I  mean,  that  doesn’t  show
trustworthiness and  that somebody who  holds a  clearance, like, what  else
am   I  going   to   lie   about,   right?   So   trust  me,  I   completely  understand   that
process now. So, yes, I understand.
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: So why should we believe you now?
APPLICANT: Again, this is something  that I have  -- this has been  sitting  on
me  for  over  a  year  now, since  this  has gone down.  And I think  it goes back
to   my  maturity  of   understanding
the   process   and   having   more
responsibilities now. I’d  say it’s the  responsibility aspect of it and  where I’ve
grown professionally and  maturity-wise.
I  think  it’s  -- again,  that  was  something  that  I  should  have  disclosed,  of
course.  But  I  did  not.  And  that  was  just  due  to  being  afraid  of  the
ramifications and what’s going to happen after that. So that’s it. (Tr. 47-50.)
Applicant  stated  in  his  PSI,  in  his answer  to  the  amended  SOR,  and  during  his
testimony that he does not associate with people who use illegal drugs. (GX 2; Tr. 27.)
Applicant started  college  in 2016  at  a  private  then-college  now university,  in his
home   state.   In   describing   his  college   background   during   direct   examination,  Applicant
stated:
But,   yeah,  so   during   that  four  years,  I  played   baseball   in  college.  I  took
around  18  to  21  credit  hours a  semester because, obviously baseball, it’s
like  a  full-time  job  itself. And  then  also I did have  a  full-time  job  to  provide
for myself as well, because  obviously being  in  college, I mean, I never got
a handout, right. (Tr. 15-16.)
When   asked   by  his  attorney  what  year  he   graduated,  Applicant  stated,
“2019, May 2019.” (Tr. 16.)
The following exchange occurred during cross-examination:
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: What was your GPA [in college]?
APPLICANT: So my graduate GPA, I believe, was 3.5, 3.5 or 3.6.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  Did  you  maintain  a  3.5  GPA  while  playing
baseball all four years?
APPLICANT: Yes, sir. (Tr. 38.)
However, on  his 2019  and  2021  e-QIPs, Applicant listed  his  college  attendance
dates  as  August 2015  to  May  2019  and  answered  “No” in  response  to  the  question  that
asked  whether or not he  received  a  degree/diploma. Under the  heading  “EDUCATION”
in the  summary of Applicant’s March 2021  PSI,  it states that Applicant volunteered  that
he  attended the university he listed  on his e-QIPs from  August 2015 until May 2019, “but
was  issued   the   bachelor’s  degree   in  December 2020.” He   told   the   investigator   that he
was not sure why he listed this information incorrectly on  his e-QIP. (GX 3; GX 1; GX  3.)
Under  the   heading   “DEVELOPED  EDUCATION,”  the   PSI   summary  states   that
Applicant volunteered  that  from  June  2019  until December 2020  he  attended  an  online
university.   Applicant  explained   that  he   did   not  know  why  he   did  not  list  the   additional
university.  He  explained  that  he  took  courses  at the  online  university because  they  were
less expensive. He then transferred the credits to  his original University which issued  his
bachelor’s  degree.  He   completed   his  coursework  online   while   working   for  his  current
employer. Applicant’s resume lists his education as having received  a bachelor’s degree
from  the  original  university he  attended  but does not list  the  date  of  graduation. (GX  2;
AX D.)
Above   the   signature  line   on   the   e-QIPs  that   Applicant  completed   and   signed   in
2019   and   2021   is   a   paragraph   entitled   “Certification.”   The   paragraph   contains   the
following language:
My  statements  on   this  form,   and   on   any  attachments  to   it,  are   true,
complete,  and  correct to  the  best of my knowledge  and  belief  and  are made
in good  faith. . . . I understand  that a  knowing  and  willful false statement on
this  form   can   be   punished   by  a   fine   or  imprisonment  or  both   (18   U.S.C.
1001).
intentionally  withholding,  misrepresenting,
falsifying, or including  classified  information  may have  a  negative  effect on
my  security  clearance,  employment  prospects,   or  job   status,  up   to   and
including   denial   or  revocation   of  my   security  clearance,   or  removal  and
department from Federal service.
I  understand
that
The   chief  executive   officer,  who   also  serves  as  the   facility  security  officer  at
Applicant’s place  of employment,   strongly supports Applicant’s  maintaining  his security
clearance, citing  his exceptional performance  in servicing  the  company’s clients.  In  his
letter of recommendation, he states:
I  have   read   the   DOHA   report  and   that  [Applicant]  made   errors  in  his
reporting;  I  understand   the   errors  made   and   have   counseled   him   on
ensuring that his documentation is accurate  and  timely. (AX A.)
A  vice  president  for  over  13  years  at  Applicant’s  place  of  employment,  who
considers  himself  a  close  mentor  to  Applicant  who  has  guided  him  throughout  his
professional  career,  also  strongly  recommends  that  Applicant  maintain  his  security
clearance. In his letter of recommendation, the vice president states:
I’ve   seen   many  young   individuals  make   many  mistakes  similar  to   what
[Applicant]  did and  I have  had  the  opportunity to  assist them  in correcting
these   mistakes.  In   [Applicant’s]   case,  I   firmly  agree   that   it  was   a   simple
mistake that he  made  and  has learned a valuable lesson. (AX B.)
Applicant’s 2021 and 2022 annual performance reviews rated him as outstanding.
Since he informed his employer about the issues with his security clearance, Applicant
has been assigned the tasks of conducting security awareness training and of assisting
new-hires in completing their e-QIPs. (AX E; Tr. 21-22.)
Applicant’s fiancée stated in her letter of recommendation that she and Applicant
have been together for eight years and were soon to be married. She describes Applicant
as kind, considerate, thoughtful, and as a person who radiates care towards everyone he
encounters. She describes their daily life together and their hope for a family in the future
where they will fill their household with “honesty, integrity, and fulfillment.” (AX C.)
