In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.g.
Her admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 28-year-old systems analyst employed by a defense contractor since
August 2022. She was born in Colombia, entered the United States in August 2012, and
became a U.S. citizen in March 2018. She was employed full time in private sector jobs
in  the  United  States  from  April  2013  until  she  was  hired  for  her  current  position.  She
received an associate degree  in May 2018 and  a bachelor’s degree  in May 2021, both
from educational institutions in the United States. She aspires to obtain a master’s degree
in the United States and advance to greater responsibility with her current employer. (Tr.
39) She  has never married  and  has no  children. She  has never held  a  security clearance.
Applicant is an only child. Her parents are citizens and residents of Colombia. Her
father was a permanent resident of the United States from 1999 to 2017, when he moved
back to Colombia, hoping to work as a truck driver. However, he has been unable to find
work. Her mother has never worked outside the home.
Applicant’s  parents  have  never  married.  (Tr.  20)  Her  paternal  grandmother  is  a
citizen  of  Colombia  and  was  a  permanent  resident  of  the  United  States  until  recently,
when she became a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 23) Her maternal grandmother is deceased. (Tr. 23)
Applicant’s  maternal aunts and cousins are citizens and residents of Colombia, except
for one cousin, who is a permanent resident of the United States. Her paternal aunts and
cousins are dual citizens of Colombia and the United States, and they currently live in the
United States. Applicant lives with one of her paternal aunts. (Tr. 18) None of Applicant’s
relatives have worked for the Colombian government or military. (Tr. 28)
Applicant  provides  monthly  support  of  about  $340  to  her  parents. She  provides
occasional money gifts to her grandmother totaling about $200.
Applicant travels to  Colombia  every one  or two  years to  visit her family. She  carries
her U.S.  passport and  her Colombian  passport when  she  travels to  and  from  Colombia.
The  Colombian  immigration  authorities require  her to  use  her Colombian  passport to  enter
and  exit Colombia.  She  uses her U.S. passport to  enter and  exit the  United  States.  She
testified  that when  she  reenters the  United  States, the  immigration  authorities scan  her
U.S. passport and stamp  her Colombian passport.
Applicant voted in the last Colombian election in June 2022. She testified that she
and her family did not like the candidate who  won, and they all cast their votes for his
opponent because she did not want Colombia to become like Venezuela. (Tr. 32)  She
testified  that  she  did  not  think  that  voting  in  the  Colombian  election  was  a  “big  deal,”
because she is a dual citizen. (Tr. 32) She cast her vote at a Colombian consulate in the
United States. (Tr. 33) She also voted in the last presidential election in the United States,
as well as the local elections.(Tr. 38)
Applicant testified that if she had to choose between being a citizen of the United
States or a citizen of Colombia, she would choose the United States. (Tr. 35) She does
not envision returning to Colombia to live. She testified, “I always would say Colombia is
awesome to go to visit, it is awesome to go for a few weeks, relax, but it is too messy,
and I don’t like that, and I prefer to feel safe.” (Tr. 36)
Colombia  is a  constitutional, multiparty republic.  The presidential and legislative
elections  held  in  2022  were  considered  by  observers  to  be  the  most  free,  fair,  and
peaceful in decades. Columbia has endured a decades-long conflict between government
forces, paramilitaries, and antigovernment insurgent groups heavily funded by the drug
trade, principally the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC). The Colombian
government  signed  a  peace  accord  with  the  FARC  in  2016,  which  was  ratified  by  the
Colombian Congress.
In November 2021, the U.S. Secretary of State revoked the designation of FARC
as  a  foreign  terrorist  organization  and  designated  the  Segunda  Marquetalia  and  the
Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia-People’s Army (FARC-EP) as foreign terrorist
organizations. These organizations, along with the National Liberation Army (ELN), have
been filling the void left by former FARC combatants.
The U.S. Department of State has issued a Level 3 Travel Advisory for Colombia
(“Reconsider travel due  to  crime  and terrorism;  exercise  increased caution  due  to  civil
unrest and kidnapping”). It has issued a Level 4 advisory (“Do not travel”) for the Arauca,
Cauca  (excluding  Popayan),  and  Norte  de  Santander  departments  and  the  Colombia-
Venezuela border region due to crime, kidnapping, and risk of detention when crossing
into Venezuela from Colombia. Applicant’s parents live in the Cauca department. (AX A
at 7)
