Applicant admitted all of the allegations in his Answer to the SOR. (¶¶ 1.a-f, and
2.a). After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  36  years  old.  In  May  2022,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
computer  science.  He  has  not  married  and  does  not  have  any  children.  Since  early
2022,  he  has  been  employed  by  a  federal  contractor  as  a  software  engineer.  This  is
Applicant’s first application for a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 20-; GE 1, AE G, I, J)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse:
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  September  2006  to
March  2022Applicant  first  used  marijuana  in  2006  in  high  school  with  friends.  After
graduating, he moved into a house with three of his high school friends who also used
marijuana.  He  stayed  in  that  home  until  2008  and  moved  out  shortly  after  his  21st
birthday. He stated that his marijuana use was at least weekly while living in the home
with his friends. From 2008 to about 2012, he moved back home to live with his parents
and  his  20-year-old-brother.  He  used  marijuana  at  his  parents’  home  approximately
daily. This was his heaviest use of marijuana. He used it out of loneliness and boredom.
At  that  time,  he  felt  like  he  did  not  have  any  friends,  and  he  did  not  like  his  current
career path. He moved out of his parents’ home in approximately 2012. (Tr. 21-32; GE
1, 2)
In 2012, Applicant moved into a one-bedroom apartment by himself. He initially
used  marijuana,  but  he  then met  a  girlfriend,  and  he  felt  his life  changed  in  a  positive
manner. He started to make goals about going to school, and he started socializing with
friends  again.  His  use  of  marijuana  decreased,  and  he  was  more  productive  with  his
time.  In  early  2016,  he  enrolled  into  a  community  college.  He  applied  himself  to  his
studies  and  decided  he  wanted  to  pursue  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science
and  software  engineering.  Applicant  testified,  “Smoking  marijuana  was  essentially
incompatible with my life at that time.” If he did smoke marijuana, it occurred about once
every two months. (Tr. 32-36, 57)
Applicant  last  used  marijuana  in  March  2022,  near  the  end  of  his  senior  year,
during a celebration at his parents’  home. He was also busy applying  for jobs, and he
decided  that  he  no  longer  wanted  marijuana  to  be  a  part  of  his  life.  After  making  his
decision, he informed his friends and family members that he no longer uses marijuana.
He was hired by a DOD contractor, and he understands how important it is to be placed
in  a  position  of  trust  and  responsibility  by  his  employer  and  the  federal  government.
Since March 2022, he has not used marijuana or any other illegal drug, and he does not
intend to use any illegal substances in the future. (Tr. 37-40; AE F; GE 1, 2)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  Applicant  used  mushrooms  from  February  2020  to  August
2021.  Applicant  testified  that  he  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  on  two  occasions,
once in February 2020 and the second time in August 2021. The first time he was on a
camping  trip,  his  brother  made  tea  with  the  mushrooms,  and  everyone  drank  the  tea.
The second time Applicant and his  girlfriend purchased mushrooms from a dispensary
and  used  it  together  before  saying  their  goodbyes  as  he  left  for  his  senior  year  in
college.  He  has  no  interest  or  future  intentions  to  use  hallucinogenic  mushrooms.  (Tr.
42-48, GE 1, 2)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleged  Applicant  used  opiates  in  2012.  He  stated  he  used  a
prescription  pill  that  is  considered  an  opiate,  but  he  actually  took  these  pills  with  his
friends in 2007, not 2012.  He used it on two or three occasions over the course of the
year. His friends provided the pills, and he did not like the nauseating effect from using
this drug. He has not used opiates since 2007, and he does not intend to use opiates in
the future. (Tr. 49-54; GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleged Applicant used cocaine in 2012. He explained that he did not
list opiate or cocaine use on his SCA because it had occurred outside the scope of the
question. He told the investigator that he had not used these drugs  “within the last ten
years,”  and  he  now  believes  that  is  how  the  date  “2012”  was  calculated.  He  actually
used cocaine on a few occasions in 2007 with these same friends, due to curiosity and
a desire to fit in with his friends. He never purchased cocaine. He has not used cocaine
since 2007, and he does not intend to use cocaine in the future. (Tr. 54-57; GE 2)
SOR ¶  1.e  alleged  in November 2014  Applicant was arrested  for (1) possession
of  25   grams  or  less   of   marijuana   and   (2)  possession   of  drug   paraphernalia.   He
explained   that  it   was  late  at  night,   and   he   was   pulled   over by  the  police   for having   an
expired registration  decal on  his license  plate. The  police  officer told  Applicant he  could
smell  the  odor  of  marijuana  coming  from  his car.  His car was  searched,  marijuana  was
found, and  Applicant  was arrested.  He  was held at the  police  station  for about  an  hour
and   released.  He  was   given   the   option   to   plead   guilty   to   count  (1)   and   pay  the   fine   in
full, which he did. He  was not ordered  to go  to substance abuse counseling  or placed  on
probation.  Count (2) was dismissed.  (Tr. 62-65; AE B, C; GE  3, 4)
SOR ¶ 1.f alleged in February 2012 Applicant was  charged with (1) possession
of THC (marijuana) and three counts of possession of drug paraphernalia. He explained
that this incident took place while he was living with his parents, so it actually happened
between 2009-2011. This incident was not found during his criminal background check,
and he voluntarily provided this information during his July 2022 background interview.
His parents were having a verbal argument, and Applicant intervened and told his father
that he was being rude to his mother. The father said something to the effect that if you
are  so  concerned  about  your  mother,  why  don’t  you  call  the  police?  The  father  dialed
911, they heard the dispatcher come on the line, and then his father disconnected the
phone. The police arrived at the house, they searched Applicant’s bedroom and found a
small amount of marijuana, a pipe, and a grinder. They confiscated everything and gave
Applicant a citation. Applicant appeared in court and was told that if chose the option to
pay the fine in full, he would not have to go through a hearing and this incident would
not be reported on his criminal record. He paid the fine in full.  (Tr. 57-62)
Applicant  provided  a  drug  specimen  result  certificate  showing  that  in  August
2023, a drug test analysis of Applicant’s hair did not detect the presence of marijuana,
cocaine, amphetamines, methamphetamine, opiates, or PCP. Applicant also provided a
signed statement of intent to refrain from using any and all illegal drugs, and any future
involvement with drugs  would be grounds for revocation of his security clearance.  (AE
E, L)
Paragraph  2  of  the  SOR  alleged  Guideline  J  (Criminal  Conduct)  security
concerns,  and  it  cross-alleged  SOR  ¶¶  1.e  and  1.f.  Applicant  admitted  both  SOR
allegations. He did not list his drug-related charges on the May 2022 SCA because he
thought  these  offenses  were  limited  to  a  seven-year  period.  He  voluntarily  disclosed
both  incidents  during  his  July  2022  background  interview  without  the  investigator
confronting him with this adverse information. (SOR response)
Four  witnesses   testified   on   Applicant’s  behalf.  Applicant  also  provided   his  work
achievements,  a   current   employer  peer  review,   and   numerous   character   reference
letters   from   his  college   professors,  co-workers,  team   manager,   previous  supervisor,
family,  and  friends  who  described  Applicant as an effective  leader,  honest,  trustworthy,
and   intelligent.   All   of  his  colleagues   had   no   reservations  about  Applicant’s  character,
responsibility,   or   patriotism.   Applicant  also   submitted   two   awards   from   his  employer   -
“recognizing   exceptional  performance,”   and   a   positive  employer  peer  review  that  was
completed in November 2022. (AE H, I, K)
