In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted or denied in whole or part some or all
of the SOR allegations. (HE 3) She also provided extenuating and mitigating information.
(Id.) As to the allegations of falsification of her SCA, she said when she completed her
SCA she believed she could explain her answers to the investigator. (SOR response) She
was  honest  with  the  investigator  who  conducted  the  follow-up  interview.  (Id.)  Her
admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  semi-tractor  trailer  driver,  and  she  has  held  this
employment  with  her  current  employer  for  two  years.  (Tr.  6,  8)  The  week  before  her
hearing  she  received  a  safety  award  from  her  current  employer.  (Tr.  46)  In  1997,  she
graduated from high school, and in 2007, she received an associate degree in human
services.  (Tr.  6-7)  In  2010,  she  received  bachelor’s  degrees  in  criminology  and
psychology. (Tr. 7) She has not served in the military. (Tr. 7) She was married from 1999
to 2001, and in 2010, she was married, and she was divorced that same year. (Tr. 8) She
said her first marriage was invalid because he was married to someone else when they
married.  (Tr.  8)  Her  three  children  are  ages  21,  22,  and  27.  (Tr.  8)  She  has  had  a
relationship with her fiancée, who is also a semi-tractor trailer driver, for about six years.
(Tr. 9)
Applicant  said:  She  has  ensured  that  sensitive  information  is  safeguarded
throughout her employment history. (Tr. 47) She was honest about admitting “the lies that
[she] put” on her SCA. (Tr. 47) Her mistakes as indicated on the SOR do not define her
as  a  person.  (Tr.  47)  She  promised  to  carry  out  her  assigned  duties.  (Tr.  47-48)  Her
difficulties with her employers are not recent, and they do not establish a pattern. (Tr. 49)
She will carefully and accurately fill out her SCAs in the future. (Tr. 49)
Personal Conduct
Employment with Employer A
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant received written warnings from Employer A in 2015
and 2016 for failing to provide documentation for employee benefits and failing to work
her  assigned  shift.  SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  she  was  terminated  from  her  employment  by
Employer A for dating a parolee in violation of prison policy.
In March of 2014, Applicant started working  for Employer A, a correctional facility.
(Tr. 18) She  assisted  inmates by  providing  counseling, assigning  them  to  classes, and
teaching  classes. (Tr. 19) She  knew she  was not supposed  to  date  the  inmates, and  at
some  point,  she  learned  the  dating  prohibition  included  persons  on  parole  because  they
were  being  supervised  by her employer. (Tr.   20-21) She  was unaware  that the  person
she  was dating  was  a  former inmate. (Tr. 22) She  knew him  when  she  was in high  school,
and  she  knew he  had  recently completed  an  18-month  drug-rehabilitation  program. (Tr.
22) At  most,  he  had  six months  left  on  his  parole. (Tr. 23) She  was  terminated  from  her
employment  with  Employer A  for dating  a  person  who  was on  parole. (Tr. 25) She  is not
currently involved with  the  person. (Tr. 24)
In her SOR response for SOR ¶ 1.a, Applicant said her employer’s warnings were
over seven  years ago, and  “considered  verbal warnings.” However, they were noted  in
her personnel file. (SOR response) For SOR ¶ 1.b, the correct termination date for her
employment with Employer A was April 11, 2016. (Id.) At the time of her relationship with
a parolee, she was unaware that it violated policy. (Id.) She knew the person from high
school, and he was not part of her caseload. (Id.)
Employer B
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant  received  written  warnings  from  Employer  B,  in
January, June, and December 2019, and February 2020 for issues that included lack of
communication, not checking or responding to emails, not clocking in and out, not meeting
productivity  goals,  and/or  not  meeting  with  clients.  SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  Employer  B
terminated her employment in April 2020 for unsatisfactory job performance and absence
without permission of supervisory staff.
Employer B employed Applicant from 2018 to 2021. (Tr. 34) She received multiple
warnings  from  Employer  B,  and  she  was  placed  on  probation.  (Tr.  35)  She  said  the
warnings  contained  “made  up  stuff.”  (Tr.  35)  She  went  on  an  out-of-state  trip  on  a
weekend,  and  she  did  not  inform  Employer B  of  her  travel plans.  (Tr.  36)  Employer B
terminated her for making the trip without providing advance notification. (Tr. 37)
In  her  SOR  response  for  SOR  ¶  1.c  Applicant  admitted  that  she  “received
reprimands  that  due  to  [her]  understanding  were  not  congruent  with  company  policy.”
(SOR  response)  For  SOR  ¶  1.d,  she  admitted  that  she  was  separated  from  her
employment with Employer B in April 2020. (Id.)
Alleged Falsifications of June 12, 2021 SCA
SOR ¶¶ 1.e through 1.j allege Applicant deliberately falsified material facts on her
June  12,  2021  SCA  in  her  response  to  the  questions  in  Section  13A,  Employment
Activities:
SOR  ¶¶  1.e  and  1.f  asked  in  the  last  seven  years,  in  connection  with  her
employment with Employer B, whether she had: (1) been fired; (2) quit after being told
she  would  be  fired;  (3)  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct;  or  (4)  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  notice  of  unsatisfactory
performance? She answered “no,” and said on her SCA that she left due to downsizing.
She deliberately failed to disclose that she was terminated for the reason set forth in SOR
¶ 1.d, supra.
In  her  SOR  response  for  SOR  ¶  1.e,  Applicant  said  she  “was  bullied  by  [an]
incoming supervisor.” (SOR response) For SOR ¶ 1.f, she said she “mistakenly believed
that the official record was revised after [an] unemployment ruling” which supported her
from the state unemployment office. (Id.)
At her hearing for SOR ¶ 1.f, Applicant said she provided an incorrect answer on
her SCA, and her answer on her SCA was false. (Tr. 42) She said:
I thought  that  I  would  be  able  to  explain  it  if I needed  to  further  explain  it
better if that  happened. . . I  also  thought  since  my unemployment  which  I
submitted  had  been  approved  and  they had  like, I  sent  them  everything  that
I had  and  they did their  investigation  and  talked  to  [Employer B] and  agreed
that it was a wrongful termination  and approved it. (Tr. 43)
On  July  20,  2020,  the  state  unemployment  agency  wrote  “The  claimant  was  not
discharged for just cause. Insufficient information has been provided to establish that the
employer had just cause to discharge the claimant.” (Tr. 43; SOR response) She agreed
that  she  was  still  supposed  to  disclose  the  termination  from  her  employment  with
Employer B on her SCA. (Tr. 43-44)
SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.j asked in the last seven years, in connection with Applicant’s
employment with Employers A and B, whether she had received a written warning, been
officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such
as  a  violation  of  security  policy?  She  answered  “no,”  and  did  not  disclose  her  written
warnings as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c, supra.
In her August 10, 2021 Office of Personnel Management (OPM) personal subject
interview, Applicant said she did not list her disciplinary actions by Employer A on her
SCA because she felt embarrassed about the situation, and she preferred to explain it in
person, and she did  not  disclose her disciplinary actions by Employer B because they
“were fraudulent in nature.” (GE 2 at 6, 7) At her hearing, she clarified that she did not tell
the OPM investigator that her reason for not disclosing information on her SCAs was due
to embarrassment; however, she may have said something about being embarrassed in
relation to her employment with Employers A and B.
In her SOR response for SOR ¶ 1.g, Applicant denied that she violated any security
policy for any employer. (SOR response) She said the “unemployment office ruled [she]
was not terminated for just cause.” (Id.) For SOR ¶ 1.j, she said “I affirm this employment
activity is over 7 years old.” (Id.)
SOR  ¶¶  1.h  and  1.i  asked  in  the  last  seven  years,  in  connection  with  her
employment with Employer A, whether she had: (1) been fired; (2) quit after being told
she  would  be  fired;  (3)  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct;  or  (4)  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  notice  of  unsatisfactory
performance? She said she left due to downsizing and deliberately failed to disclose that
she was terminated for the reason set forth in SOR ¶ 1.b, supra.
In her SOR response for SOR ¶ 1.h, Applicant said:
This employment was  over 7  years ago  and  as such  has aged  out of importance,
respectively.  Request  that this information  be  deemed  moot and  removed  from  this
case. I affirm  that I poorly chose  to  answer in this manner and  was very candid
with the investigator.  (SOR response)
At her hearing, Applicant said she answered “no,” and she explained her answer
as follows:
[b]ecause  I  thought  that was  the only way  I  would  get  to explain  it,  which is
not what I should  have  done. . .  I felt like  I needed  to  explain  it other than
just  a  piece  of paper. Also,  I didn’t know, it was really bad  . . .  Because  it
made people think that I’m not trustworthy.” (Tr. 26)
Applicant admitted  that  she  put  the  statement  that  she  left  due  to  downsizing  on  her SCA,
which  was  not the  real reason  she  left  her  employment  with  Employers A  and B.  (Tr. 30-
31, 33-34)
In her SOR response for SOR ¶ 1.j, Applicant said “I affirm this employment activity
is now over 7 years old.” (SOR response) At her hearing, she said she believed she made
a  good  faith  effort  to  correct  the  concealment  when  she  told  the  OPM  investigator  on
August 10, 2021, about the incorrect answers on her SCA. (Tr. 16-17, 32-33)
