Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  August  2021.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military
from  1993  until  he  was  honorably  discharged  in  1996.  He  then  served  in  the  miliary
reserve  until 2001.  He  attended college  for a  period  without earning a  degree, and  he
has  technical  certifications.  He  married  in  1997  and  divorced  in  2008.  He  married  his
current wife in 2011. He has an adult child from his first marriage and a minor child from
his second marriage.  (Transcript  (Tr.) at  61-65;  Applicant’s  response  to SOR;  GE 1-3;
AE B, C, H, I)
Applicant’s first and  second  wives  were  both  born in the  foreign  country  (Country
A) where Applicant served  when  he  was in  the U.S. military. He lived  and  worked  in that
country from   1999   to  2021.   He   worked   for   defense   contractors from  2008   until he   lost
his  job   in  2021   as  a   consequence   of  the   actions  described   below.   (Tr.  at  61-65;
Applicant’s response  to SOR;  GE 1, 3; AE  I)
On  January  13,  2021,  a  U.S.  servicemember  reported  that  a  vehicle  on  the
military  installation  was  “displaying  Three  Percenter  and  QAnon  stickers  on  its  back
window.  Both  of  these  organizations/beliefs  have  been  linked  to  racially  motivated
violent  extremism  and  anti-government  actions.”  He  reported  that  he  first  noticed  the
“III” sticker on July 31, 2020, and the QAnon sticker on January 12, 2021. He stated that
he became aware of the III symbol because it was reported that an NFL player had the
symbol as a tattoo.1 (GE 3, 4 at 38-39)
The  military  criminal  investigation  division  did  a  criminal  and  insider-threat
analysis  and  determined  that  Applicant  was  not  suspected  of  committing  a  criminal
offense  or  being  an  insider  threat.  The  military  criminal  investigation  division  did  not
open an investigation, with the following rationale in an email dated January 15, 2021:
1. Social media was identified with no derogatory information noted.
2.  The   FBI   has   not   designated   the   3%ers  or  QAnon   as  a   terrorist
organization. Neither of them  are organized groups.
3.  The   3%er  sticker  alone   is  not  an   indicator  of  militia   affiliation   (see
attached   [FBI  Joint  Information   Bulletin   identified   in   above   Evidence
section] and below for more details.
4. While an  internet search for  three  percenters  (III%) and  QAnon  will  yield
several sites declaring  them  anti-government, militia  linked, or conspiracy
theorists;  as  with   any   group   there  are  those   who   take   matters  to   the
extreme  and  those  who  are more conservative  in their  voice. Displaying  a
sticker in support of  either group does not make an individual a  threat.
5.  At  this  time,  [Applicant]  is  not  suspected  of  committing  a  criminal
offense or insider threat. (GE 4 at 133)
An  administrative  investigation  was  ordered  and  completed  by  a  U.S.  military
field  grade  officer.  The  investigation  disclosed  that  the  vehicle  belonged  to  Applicant.
The  Three  Percenter  sticker  has  III  inside  a  circle  of  stars.  The  QAnon  sticker  is  a
stylized Q with a skull inside. Applicant bought the III sticker on eBay for $20 and placed
it on his vehicle in about June 2020. He bought the QAnon sticker on eBay for $10 and
placed it on his vehicle in about January 2021. He also bought a rubber bracelet with a
red Q. (Tr. at 66, 94-102, 110-111; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
During  the  investigation,  Applicant  stated  that  he  placed  the  III  sticker  on  his
vehicle because he liked the design and to “tell that I defend the Constitution. That I am
a  patriot.  I  want  to  show  loyalty  as  a  patriotic  American.”  He  stated  that  his
understanding  of  the  Three  Percenters  was  that  “[i]t’s  like  Paul  Revere,  protecting  the
1 The NFL player stated, “I got that tattoo when I was a teenager and I have a lot of family in the military. I
time.”  See  https://www.military.com/off-
thought
duty/2020/04/29/nfl-draftee-claims-he-thought-three-percenter-tattoo-was-military-support-symbol.
for  a  military-support  symbol  at
it  stood
the
second amendment and the Constitution. Nothing to do with supremacy or extremism.”
(GE 3, 4)
Applicant  stated  that  he  placed  the  QAnon  sticker  on  his  vehicle  “to  raise
awareness. Spawn curious[ity] and let people research for themselves.”  He stated that
his understanding of QAnon was that it “is a group that conducts independent research.
It’s  not  an  ideology  nor  does  it  promote  violence  or  any  type  of  derogatory  actions.
[T]here  is  no  ill  har[m]  at  all.  It  is  suspected  of  being  very  close  to  [the]  Trump
administration.” (GE 3, 4 at 68-71)
The  investigator  interviewed  a  number  of  Applicant’s  work  colleagues.  He  was
described as “glad to be at work”; “low-key, calm, friendly, easy going guy”; “respectful
and  competent  in  his  duties”;  “very  quiet,  tends  to  keep  things  to  himself”;  and  an
“introvert.”  Most  of  his  colleagues  stated  that  they  had  not  seen  Applicant  display
images of either QAnon or Three Percenters, but most of his colleagues were unfamiliar
with QAnon or Three Percenters before the investigation. (GE 3, 4)
Applicant’s  supervisor  at  the  time,  a  retired  lieutenant  colonel,  provided  a
statement for the investigation. He had never heard Applicant discuss Three Percenters
or QAnon, and he never heard Applicant advocate any activities designed to overthrow
the  U.S.  Government  by  force.  He  stated  that  “[e]verybody  in  the  office  discussed  the
riots  on  Jan.  6.  We  were  all  horrified  by  the  incident  and  everyone  in  the  office
disagreed with what occurred, including [Applicant].” The supervisor was unfamiliar with
Three Percenters before Applicant’s stickers became an issue. He then looked them up
online. What he found indicated that the Three Percenters supported the Constitution by
non-violent means. He also looked up QAnon, and he felt  it was developed as a joke,
and  that  “[w]ho  else  would  come  up  with  a  story  line  that  the  world  is  controlled  by  a
small  cabal  of  children  eating  cannibals?  A  good  video  game  story,  but,  laughable.  I
don’t think anyone takes it seriously, but they enjoy following the antics of the few idiots
who do.” (GE 4 at 44)
One  employee  reported  to  the  investigator  that  he  and Applicant were  traveling
by  car  on  a  work  trip  when  he  noticed  Applicant  wearing  a  rubber  bracelet  with  a  red
letter Q. The employee asked him about the bracelet. Applicant stated it was an online
social media group that he followed. The employee reported that Applicant “described Q
as  what  [he]  would  consider  conspiracy  theories  about  shadow  government  and
pedophiles.” (Tr. at 77-79, 109; GE 4 at 91; AE L)
The  investigator  reported  that  there  was  no  indication  that  Applicant  had  ever
specifically  advocated  activities  designed  to  overthrow  the  U.S.  Government  by  force,
and that there was no indication that he supported the January 6, 2021 insurrection at
the Capitol. (GE 3, 4)
On  numerous  occasions,  Applicant  accessed  QAnon-affiliated  websites  and
social media using his government computer system. On June 29, 2020, and June 30,
2020,  using  his  government  email  account,  he  sent  emails  through  his  government
computer  system  to  three  other  federal  employees.  Attached  to  the  emails  were
documents  that  contained  QAnon-associated  rhetoric.  With  slight  variations,  the  two
attached  documents  had  the  same  message.  The  two-page  message  is  a  rambling
diatribe  that  appears  to  be  mainly  against  the  mainstream  media  with  open-ended
questions.  This  was  during  the  COVID-19  pandemic  and  around  the  time  of  the
lockdown.  One  of  the  recipients  of  the  email  stated  that  he  was  not  alarmed  by  the
message  and  thought  the  message  may  have  referred  to  the  media’s  coverage  of
elections and the lockdown. Another recipient remembered receiving the email, but not
the  contents.  (Tr.  at  74-75,  84-85,  106-108;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  3,  4  at
100-119)
I did not understand much of the QAnon message (possibly because it is written
in a way to be intentionally obtuse), but I did not see anything calling for violence. One
section  stated,  “They  want  you  divided”  by  religion,  race,  sex,  political  affiliation,  and
class,  and  that  “When  you  are  divided,  and  angry,  and  controlled,  you  target  those
‘different’  from  you,  not  those  responsible  [controllers].”  (Emphasis  in  original)  The
message closed with:
“Free   thought”   is  a   philosophical   viewpoint   which   holds  that  positions
regarding   truth   should  be   formed   on  the   basis  of  logic,  reason,  and
empiricism, rather than authority, tradition, revelation, or dogma.
THIS   REPRESENTS   A   CLEAR   AND   PRESENT   DANGER  TO  THE
CONSTITUTIONAL  REPUBLIC  OF  THE  UNITED STATES  OF AMERICA.
(GE 4 at 113-119)
Applicant  followed   on   his  government   computer  system   numerous   QAnon
conspiracy  theories  and   messages  posted   on   Facebook.  A   post   from   May  7,  2020,
addressed  a  media conspiracy  directed  at the  2020  Presidential election, and  included:
“When  do  you  expend  ammunition?  For What  Purpose?  .  . . You  have  more power and
influence   than   you   realize.   Welcome   to   the   Revolution.  Q”  (Emphasis  in   original)
Another   post   on   October  31,  2020,  stated,  “Are  you   ready  to   finish   what  we   started?
‘Nothing  can  stop  what  is coming’ is not  just  a  catch-phrase.  Q”  A  third  post,  apparently
from November 2020, was a  political comic referencing  election fraud. (GE   3,  4)
Applicant  removed  the  bumper  stickers  in  January  2020,  after  emails  about
extremist  iconography  were  circulated  through  the  command.  (Tr.  at  69-70,  102-106;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
Applicant’s access to classified information was suspended in March 2021. (GE
8,  9)  In  April  2021,  the  commander  of  the  U.S.  forces  in  Country  A  barred  Applicant
from entering any U.S. military installation in the country for ten years, with the following
rationale:
You   have   been   found   to   have   displayed   iconography   associated   with
extremist  ideologies  on   your  personally  owned   vehicle   and   in  the
workplace. Additionally, you  distributed  material associated  with  extremist
ideologies.   Your  actions   are  incompatible  with   the   interests   of  national
security,   reflect  negatively  on   the   image   of  the   U.S.   overseas,  and
adversely  affect  the   safety  and   morale   of  personnel  on   [U.S.   facilities  in
Country A].  (GE 6)
When  Applicant  was  barred  from  the  military  installations,  he  also  lost  his  job,
and he had to relocate back to the United States. He could not afford to move much of
his household goods, and he gave most  things  away.  He estimated  that he lost about
$100,000 through the process. (Tr. at 65, 88-82; GE 1, 2, 8)
Applicant adamantly denied that he is a Three Percenter, that he has ever been
a member of a militia or any similar group, or that he supports or is sympathetic to any
group  that  “advocates resistance  to  certain U.S.  federal government  policies.”  He  was
horrified  by  the  events  at  the  Capitol  on  January  6,  2021.  He  testified  that  he  did  not
understand  the full meaning of  the  III sticker, and that he came across  it on  eBay. He
liked  the  design,  and  he  thought  it  symbolized  patriotism,  support  for  the  Second
Amendment,  and  the  national  dialogue.  He  did  not  realize  it  was  associated  with
extremist groups. He added that he “thought they were Constitution defenders, kind of
like Paul Revere, people that stand up when there is like, the Government is not doing
exactly  as  the  Constitution  states.”  (Tr.  at  66-68,  82-83,  94-97,  113-122;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2; AE A)
Applicant  testified  that  he  thought  “QAnon  is  basically  an  online  repository  of
information.  There’s  no  ideology.  A  person  can  go  in  and  access  it  and  do  their  own
research  on  it.”  He  stated  that  it  is  “kind  of like  a  big  puzzle,”  and “kind  of  like  the  Da
Vinci  Code.”  He  did  not  agree  with  everything  on  QAnon.  He  stated  that  he  sent  the
emails  “to  spawn  curiosity,  just  to  give  them  an  alternate  view  over  what  mainstream
media was saying on the TV in our office.” He stated that he thought the QAnon website
he  visited  would  have been  blocked if  it  was  a  problem, and he was  never notified by
any  IT  personnel  that  it  was  a  problem  before  the  investigation.  He  felt  the  QAnon
message  he  sent  was  anti-racist,  and  promoted  unification,  not  division.  He  now  feels
that  he  was  misinformed  about  QAnon.  He  does  not  intend  to  have  any  further
connection  to  QAnon.  (Tr.  at  71-77,  84-87,  97-102,  110-117,  122-132;  Applicant’s
response to SOR)
Applicant  submitted  letters  and  documents  attesting  to  his  outstanding  job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  patriotism,  efficiency,
competence, dedication, work ethic, compassion, leadership, positive attitude, honesty,
trustworthiness,  and  loyalty  to  the  United  States.  They  recommend  him  for  a  security
clearance. (AE D, J)
The   colleagues  and   supervisor   at   his  former  job,   which   include   several  retired
U.S.   military  officers,   feel  that  Applicant  was   unfairly  treated   because   they  never  saw
any  indication   that  he   was   sympathetic   to   any  militia   or  extremist  group.   They   confirm
that  he   was  appalled   by  the   events  of  January   6,  2021,  and   he   condemned   the
insurrection.  They   believe   that   the   politically  charged   atmosphere  following   January  6,
2021,  contributed   to   the   command’s   decisions.   A   security  officer  at  the   command
expressed   the   same   view.  One   co-worker  wrote   in  his  statement  for  the   investigation,
“[Applicant]  has never represented  himself as  anything  other than  being  patriotic.  I  think
he got himself caught up in something he didn’t know what he was getting into.” (Tr. at
17-42; GE 4 at 43-65, 76-88, 95-97; AE D, J)
