Applicant,  age  51,  is unmarried  with  a  minor child.  She  received  her bachelor’s
degree in 2007. She worked as a detective for a large metropolitan city police department
in  State  A  from  1993  to  2013.  Since  2013,  she  has  been  self-employed  as  a  private
investigator. She relocated her residence from State A to State B in 2016. In June 2021,
she  was  hired  into  a  contract  investigator  position  by  the  defense  contractor  who
sponsored her EQIP. The record did not address whether Applicant either submitted to a
preemployment drug test or was advised of a drug-free policy upon hire. DCSA granted
her interim eligibility for a secret clearance on August 8, 2022. As of September 27, 2022,
she had not yet begun employment in the position for which eligibility was granted. (Items
3-5)
Applicant did not disclose any drug use on her July 25, 2022 EQIP. She answered
“No”  to  all  questions  in  “Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity,”  including
whether she had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances within the last seven
years, while possessing a security clearance, or while employed as a law enforcement
officer.  The  opening  paragraph  of  Section  23  noted  that  all  questions  pertained  to  the
illegal  use  of  drugs  or  controlled  substances  “in  accordance  with  Federal  laws,  even
though  permissible  under  state  laws.”  The  question  about  “illegal  use  of  drugs  or
controlled  substances”  in  Section  23  noted,  “Use  of  a  drug  or  controlled  substance
includes  injecting,  snorting,  inhaling,  swallowing,  experimenting  with  or  otherwise
consuming any drug or controlled substance.” (Item 3)
During Applicant’s September 27, 2022 security clearance interview (SI), she self-
reported that she experimented with marijuana twice after completing the EQIP, on an
unspecified date in July 2022, and on an unspecified date in September 2022. On each
occasion, she inhaled one hit of marijuana from a vaping pen supplied by a friend while
attending a concert. She attributed her decision to use marijuana to the fact that it is legal
in State B. She claimed that, on the occasions when she used marijuana, she was not
aware that its use remains illegal under federal law. She maintained that she never used
any other illegal drugs or marijuana on any other occasions. She professed an intent not
to use marijuana in the future because it could affect her security clearance. (Item 2, 5)
Although not explicitly stated, information in the record implied that both concerts
Applicant attended were in State B. In her Answer, she reiterated that, to the best of her
knowledge,  her  marijuana  use  was  legal  under  State  B  law.  The  Government  did  not
proffer  evidence  to  the  contrary.  She  maintained  that  she  would  never  have  used
marijuana had she known that its use was illegal under federal law. The record did not
indicate when or how she acquired that knowledge. (Items 5)
