Applicant, age 33, is an employee of a Department of Defense contractor seeking
to  maintain  his  security  clearance.  He  has  worked  for  various  DoD  contractors  at  an
overseas location since 2015. He served on active duty in the United States Army from
2007  to  2010,  separating  with  a  general  under  honorable  conditions  discharge.  He  is
divorced and has no children. (GE 1-2; Tr. 11, 17-18, 26)
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement
Applicant admitted using marijuana with varying frequency from October 2009 to
January 2010. (SOR  ¶ 1.a,  Response  to  SOR) He  also admitted using marijuana  with
varying frequency from July 2014 to February 2021. (SOR ¶ 1.b, Response to SOR) In
April  2010,  he  was  discharged  from  the  U.S.  Army  with  a  discharge  characterized  as
general under honorable conditions due to a positive urinalysis for THC, and marijuana
use. (SOR ¶ 1.c: GE 9)
After his discharge from active duty, Applicant was arrested on three occasions
and charged with drug-related offenses to include:
SOR  ¶   1.d:   February  2015  arrest  for  Use/Possession  Drug  Paraphernalia;
Use/Possession Marijuana. Applicant failed to appear in court and a warrant was issued.
The case was nolle prossed, with prejudice in May 2018. (GE 3);
SOR  ¶   1.e:  June  2015  arrest  for  Illegal  Possession  of  Prescription  Drugs  and
Possession of Marijuana, Second Degree. He failed to appear in court and a warrant was
issued for his arrest. (GE 2 at 18; GE 5); and
SOR ¶  1.f:  May 2018 arrest for Possession of Marijuana Second Degree and Open
Container in a Vehicle. He failed to appear in court and a warrant was issued for his arrest.
(GE 2 at 19-20; GE 6)
During the hearing, Applicant testified that he first used marijuana at age 12. It was
a one-time experimental use. He did not use marijuana again until he was deployed to
Iraq in 2009. He was deployed to Iraq from approximately July 2008 to October 2009.
Although Applicant admitted the use of alcohol and marijuana was prohibited in Iraq by a
General Order, several of his fellow soldiers were drinking alcohol to blow off steam.  He
was a driver and decided it was better to use marijuana instead of alcohol even though
he was aware marijuana use was prohibited.  He estimated he used marijuana at least
once a month while deployed. (Tr. 18-19, 70-71)
Upon his return from deployment, Applicant continued to use marijuana while on
active  duty.  He  smoked  marijuana  in  social  settings,  at  parties,  and  in  the  park.  He
estimated  his  level  of  use  was  on  a  weekly to  monthly  basis.  In  early  2010,  Applicant
smoked marijuana with a fellow soldier at a party in the barracks. Soon after, his unit was
called for a random urinalysis. He and his friend both tested positive for THC, a derivative
of marijuana and both were eventually discharged from active duty. In February 2010, he
was  ordered  to  attend  ASAP  (a  drug  counseling  course  the  Army  provided),  but  was
separated from active duty before its completion.  (GE 2 at 15. Tr. 19-20)
After  his  separation  from  active  duty,  Applicant  did  not  use  marijuana  until  July
2014. He smoked marijuana on a monthly basis until February 2021. He stopped using
marijuana when he applied for his current job because he did not want to fail the drug
test. Between 2015 to 2021, Applicant worked for several DoD contractors. He was asked
whether he recalls signing a drug policy document with each employer which states that
illegal  drug  use  is  prohibited.  Subject  told  the  background  investigator  conducting  his
security  clearance  investigation  that  he  knew  marijuana  use  was  against  policy,  but
thought  his  use  was  not  hurting  anything  since  he  never  used  marijuana  at  work.  He
stopped using marijuana in hopes of being granted a security clearance. He claims he is
not dependent on marijuana and is able to stop using it. He testified during the hearing
that  the  last  time  he  used  marijuana  was  in  November  2022.  I  am  going  to  use  the
November 2022 date as the last time he used marijuana. (Tr. 22-25, 74; GE 2 at 16)
Applicant admits that he was arrested in February 2015 (SOR ¶ 1.e) but was not
sure what the charges were. He claims the police were looking for his brother. His brother
was  not home,  so Applicant  was arrested  because  the  police  discovered grinders and
papers. Applicant denies that he possessed marijuana. He did not appear in court. He
returned overseas to work. He claims that he was not aware of the outstanding charges
until he came home on vacation and was arrested for having open arrest warrants. (Tr.
26 -30; Answer to SOR)
Applicant  admits  he  was  arrested  in  June  2015,  but  denies  that  he  possessed
marijuana or illegally possessed prescription drugs. (SOR ¶ 1.e) He was driving with Mr.
M, a close friend. The car he was driving belonged to  his mother’s friend. A police car
drove in the opposite direction and noticed Applicant was driving without a seat belt.  As
Applicant pulled into the driveway of Mr. M’s house, the police approached their car.  A
subsequent search of the car revealed prescription pills.  He does not recall marijuana
being found in the car. He and his friend were arrested, booked, and spent 24 hours in
jail. He posted bond. He was given a court date, but went back overseas to work before
the court date. He failed to appear and a warrant was issued for his arrest. (Tr. 32, GE 2
at 18-19; Answer to SOR; GE 5)
Finally, Applicant admits he was arrested in May 2018 but was not sure where the
marijuana charges came from. (SOR ¶ 1.f) He was home on leave to attend his sister’s
graduation. He had several open bottles of alcohol in the car which were left over from
the graduation celebration. He was driving back from the celebration. A woman who he
had  just  met  on-line  was  in  the  car  with  him.  He  believes  she  may  have  possessed
marijuana. He denies possessing marijuana. Five minutes after he picked up the woman,
the police pulled him over and he was arrested for Open Container and Possession of
Marijuana, Second Degree. The police discovered Applicant had open warrants in several
jurisdictions. The police report indicates Applicant was searched after they discovered he
had outstanding warrants. A bundle of U.S. currency and a plastic baggie containing a
green leafy substance believed to be marijuana was found in Applicant’s right front pocket
of his shorts. (Gov 6 at 2) Applicant ended up spending four nights in jail in four different
jurisdictions in order to answer the outstanding warrants. After he was released, Applicant
returned to his overseas residence.  He did not appear at his court date and a warrant
was issued for his arrest. (Tr. 45 – 52; GE 2 at 19-20; GE 6; Answer to SOR)
Applicant returned  to  the  U.S. in  November 2020, to  spend  Thanksgiving  with  his
family. He  did  not attempt  to  resolve his open  warrants when  he  was  home. His mother
told him not to worry about it because it had  no effect on  his job or life overseas. (Tr. 54-
56; Gov 2  at 20) During  the  hearing, Applicant testified  the  last time  he  visited  the  U.S.
was May 2022. The  warrants remain outstanding. He  indicated he plans to  hire a  lawyer
to solve these issues at some point in the future. (Tr. 15, 43;  GE  4; GE 10)
Criminal Conduct
The allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.e – 1.f are cross- alleged under Guideline J, Criminal
Conduct.  The same facts apply.
Personal Conduct
The allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.f are cross- alleged under Guideline E, Personal
Conduct.  The same facts apply.
Applicant is alleged to  have intentionally falsified several answers on his June 30,
2021, security clearance  application  (also known as e-QIP)  in response  to  Section  22  –
Police  Record. “Have  any of the  following  happened?  In  the  last  seven  years have  you
been   issued   a   summons,  citation,  or  ticket  to   appear  in   court  in   a   criminal   proceeding
against  you?   –   In   the   last   seven   years,   have   you   been   arrested   by  any   police   officer,
sheriff, marshal, or any other type  of  law enforcement official?  –  In  the  last seven  years
have   you   been   charged,  convicted,   or  sentenced   of  a   crime   in   any  court?   (Include   all
qualifying  charges, conviction  or sentences in  any Federal, state, local, military, or non
U.S. court, even  if previously listed  on  this form) –  In  the  last seven  years have  you  been
or  are   you   currently  on   probation   or  parole?   –   Are  you   currently   on   trial  or  awaiting   a
criminal trial on  criminal charges?” Applicant  answered, “No” and  deliberately did not  list
his arrests alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d  and 1.e. (SOR ¶ 3.b” GE  1, Section 22, at 37)
Applicant is also alleged to have intentionally falsified his June 30, 2021, security
clearance  application  in  response  to  “Section  22  –  Police  Record  (EVER)  Other  than
those offenses already listed, have you EVER had the following happen to you . . . Have
you ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs?” when he answered,
“No.”  He deliberately did not list the offenses listed in SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e and 1.f. (SOR ¶
3.c: GE 1, Section 22, at 37-38)
Finally,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  intentionally  falsified  his  June  30,  2021,
security clearance application in response to “Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug
Activity.  In  the  last  seven  years,  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances?  Use of a  drug  or controlled  substance  includes injecting, snorting,  inhaling,
swallowing,  experimenting   with   or   otherwise   consuming   any  drug   or  controlled
substance?”  when he answered  “No.”  He  deliberately failed  to  disclose his illegal use of
marijuana  with  varying  frequency  between  July 2014  to  February 2021.  (SOR ¶  3.d:  GE
1, Section  23, at 38)
In his response to the SOR, Applicant denies the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3.a – 3.d.
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  having  problems  with  the  e-QIP
program.  He claims he tried to put the correct information into the e-QIP, but the program
would not allow it. He states he never tried to hide his marijuana use. (Tr. 57-61)  During
his background investigation interview, Applicant told the investigator that he did not list
these  events on  his case  papers because  he  thought  they  would  reflect  negatively on
him. (GE 2 at 20)
Whole-Person Factors
Applicant provided  several character references attesting to his good character.
Mr. R., Applicant’s direct supervisor, has worked with Applicant over the past two years.
They no longer work on the same team, but he describes him as “a trustworthy, motivated,
and  hard-working  young  man.”  (AE  A  at  1)  Ms.  N.B.  is  Applicant’s  close  friend  and
neighbor.  She  has  known  Applicant  for  the  past  14  years.  She  states  Applicant  has
consistently  shown  a  commitment  to  “integrity,  leadership,  altruism,  trustworthiness,
reliability, accountability, and hard work, as well as being a great friend that always has
an open ear to listen.” (AE A at 2-4) Applicant’s sister, a former co-worker, and a friend
who served with him on active duty also provided favorable letters attesting to his good
character.  (AE  A  at  5  –  7)  Applicant  also  received  a  certificate  of  appreciation  for  his
support of the Army’s mission. (AE A at 8)
