In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted all of the allegations, with explanations. His
admissions are adopted as findings of fact. After a review of the pleadings and evidence,
I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a  49-year-old  employee  of a  federal  contractor  working  as a  simulation
technician  since  February  2020. He  holds an  associate  degree  and  is a  few hours away
from  earning  his bachelor’s degree. He  is  married  for the  third  time  (1995-2014,  2015-
2019, 2019-present).  He has three  children  from  his first marriage  and  three  stepchildren
from  his current  marriage.  He pays  $900  monthly in  child  support  for  his youngest  child,
age  16, from his first marriage. (Tr. 4,  6, 24-25; GE 1)
Applicant served in the U.S Army for 25 years. In February 2020, he was medically
retired  as  a  master  sergeant  (E-8)  with  an  honorable  discharge.  During  his  years  of
service, he deployed four times to combat areas. As a result of injuries during combat, he
received a 100 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). In
June  2019,  he  was  tried  at  a  Special  Court-Martial  for  offenses  described  below.  He
pleaded guilty and was sentenced by a military judge to four months confinement and a
reduction to the grade of E-7. His one-grade reduction was not approved by the convening
authority. He also made restitution in the approximate amount of $9,000. (Tr. 16, 25; GE
3)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged four delinquent accounts (two car debts and
two consumer debts) totaling approximately $27,774. The debts are established by credit
reports from February 2017 and August 2021; Applicant’s personal subject interview (PSI)
with an investigator in November 2021; and his SOR response admissions (SOR ¶¶ 1.a
– 1.d). (GE 2, 5-6; SOR Answer)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant was tried at an Army Special
Court-Martial  for  violations  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  including
disobeying a superior officer, making a false official statement, and larceny. He pleaded
guilty and was sentenced to four months confinement, and a reduction in grade to E-7.
(SOR ¶ 2.a)
Financial Considerations
Applicant testified that he did not pay any of the SOR debts  and stated they no
longer appear on his credit report because they aged off. During his background interview
in November 2021, he was confronted with the four SOR debts and acknowledged them.
He told the investigator that he would “take all necessary steps to resolve these delinquent
accounts.”  He  failed  to  present  any  evidence  that  he  has  done  so.  He  stated  that  his
contentious divorce from his first wife, which encompassed the years 2014-2016, caused
him great financial strain resulting in these delinquencies. These debts were not resolved
by Appellant. (Tr. 17, 21; GE 2, 6-9; AE A; SOR Answer)
Applicant testified that his current finances are in good shape. He stated he has
no new delinquencies. His July 2023 credit report shows one collection account for $456,
which had a date of last activity in September 2016 (this debt was not alleged in the SOR
and  will  not  be  considered  for  disqualification  purposes,  but  it  may  be  considered  for
credibility,  mitigation,  and  in  applying  the  whole-person  factors).  Appellant’s  and  his
current  wife’s monthly  take-home  pay  total approximately $14,600.  He  did  not  give  an
estimate of his monthly expenses during his testimony. During his background interview,
he told the investigator that he had approximately $6,500 left over at the end of the month
which he would use to begin paying his delinquent debts. He presented no evidence that
he has done this. (Tr. 18, 21, 26; GE 2)
Personal Conduct
Applicant admitted to the conduct for which he was tried and convicted at an Army
Special  Court-Martial in  July 2019.  Applicant was  the  staff noncommissioned  officer in
charge (NCOIC) of a college ROTC detachment. In that role, he had access to and control
over the unit’s funds and accounts generated through fund raising. At the time, he was
geographically  separated from his  first  wife and three children,  who lived  in  a different
state (State A). His wife filed for divorce and Applicant was required to travel to State A
for the divorce proceedings and to see his daughters. He did not have the personal funds
to do this, so he decided to take money from the ROTC accounts. A subsequent Army
investigation determined that he deposited 33 checks from three ROTC accounts into his
personal account from about 2013 to 2017. When questioned by investigators, he claimed
he had no knowledge of the missing ROTC funds and denied any wrongdoing.  (Tr. 19,
21-22, 24; GE 2, 4; AE A; SOR Answer)
Later,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  disobeying  a  superior  officer,  larceny,  and
making  a  false  official statement.  He was  sentenced as  indicated above.  He  fully  paid
restitution in the amount of $9,050 within the time allowed. He testified that he understood
that his actions were a breach of his integrity and the trust reposed in him based upon his
military status. (Tr. 22-24; AE A)
Appellant testified that he has had no further employment misconduct since this
incident, nor has he had any subsequent arrests by law enforcement. His record shows
that in 1994, when he was a private second-class, he was apprehended for shoplifting
from  an  Army  and  Air  Force  Exchange  facility.  His  exchange  privilege  card  was
confiscated, and he was turned over to his unit. No further information was included (this
allegation  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  and  will  not  be  considered  for  disqualification
purposes, but it may be considered for credibility, mitigation, and in applying the whole-
person factors). (Tr. 28; GE 4)
Character Evidence  and Other Possible Mitigation
Applicant  presented  character  letters  from  two  coworkers  and  a  supervisor.  All
three  attested  to his trustworthiness,  loyalty, integrity,  and  reliability.  All recommended
that he continue to have access to classified information. (AE B-D)
Applicant  testified  that  he  teaches  firearms  safety  as  an  additional  job.  He  also
qualified  for  a  Federal  Firearms  License  (FFL),  which  he  claimed  required  an  FBI
background check. (Tr. 18)
Applicant received a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) diagnosis in 2014.
His PTSD is related to events that transpired during his combat deployments. (Tr. 25)
