Applicant  admitted  all of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  His  admissions  have  been
incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  37  years  old.  He  completed  training  as  an  emergency  medical
technician  in  2005  but  was  unable  to  find  a  job  in  his  field  because  he  did  not  have
experience.  He  was  married  from  2005  to  2006,  which  ended  in  divorce.  He  does  not
have children. He has worked for his current employer, a federal contractor. since January
2022. (Tr. 32-35; GE 1)
Applicant  testified  that  in  about  2016,  after  his  father  passed  away,  he  began
consuming alcohol excessively. He would drink to intoxication regularly. He would go to
bars and have four to five drinks. He kept a bottle of liquor in his car in case he went out
and did not want to pay for expensive drinks at a bar. (Tr. 42-44, 59)
Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol in March 2021.
He took a breathalyzer and recorded .216% and .221%. Applicant testified that he had
consumed liquor in his vehicle after a difficult day at work. He drank it in a parking lot.
While driving, there was a tire tread in the road, and he swerved and lost control of his
vehicle. He was told he hit a post but did not recall that he did. He was arrested a short
time later at a fast-food restaurant. He admitted he was intoxicated when he was arrested.
He also had in his possession some pills that were prescribed to him, but the prescription
was expired, and he had put them in a smaller container that was unmarked. (Tr. 44-48;
GE 1, 2, 3, 4, 5)
Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  DUI  offense,  and  the  charge  of  possession  of  an
unmarked expired prescription was withdrawn. He was given 18 months’ probation, a fine,
court-ordered alcohol and drug counseling, and he was required to have an interlock on
his vehicle for 12 months. He completed all the terms of the probation. (Tr. 48-49; GE 6;
AE B)
Applicant credibly testified that this was a wakeup call for him, and he never wanted
to spend another day in jail. He essentially stopped consuming alcohol after his arrest
and has only had three or four drinks since then at family gatherings. He no longer wants
to drink alcohol and has declined it numerous times when offered. He viewed his arrest
as a life-changing event. (Tr. 35-40)
Applicant participated and completed alcohol and drug counseling as  mandated
by the court. He was an outpatient and participated in group therapy. He found it very
helpful and was provided alternatives to handing stress. He does not crave alcohol. (Tr.
57-58; GE 5, 6)
Applicant  testified  that he  was  in a  toxic relationship  with  his fiancée  during  the
time he was drinking. His mother was ill and passed away in May 2022. He and his fiancée
broke up and that has had a positive effect on him. He is an only child, and he inherited
his mother’s  house.  He  spends his time  working  on  the  house.  He  also has been  in a
stable  relationship  for the  past  six months.  His  girlfriend  does  not  consume  alcohol  or
drugs.  Through  his  commitment  to  moderate  his  consumption  he  has  not  had  any
problems related to alcohol. He does not have any in his house, except some cooking
wine. He has had no other alcohol-related incidents and does not foresee any in his future
because of his abstinence. (Tr. 38-40, 49-52, 54)
In about June 2021, Applicant was prescribed medical marijuana, which is legal in
the state where he lives. He would purchase it about twice a month. When he completed
his security clearance application (SCA), he did not disclose his use because he viewed
it as a prescription drug, and it was not illegal in his state. When he was confronted by
the investigator, he readily admitted he used medical marijuana and was unaware that it
was illegal under federal law. He believed he was answering the drug questions on his
SCA  truthfully.  I  find  he  did  not  deliberately  fail  to  disclose  his  illegal  drug  use  under
federal law. (Tr. 40-42, 50-52; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  testified  that  he  had  been  using  medical  marijuana  regularly  for
relaxation, anxiety, to help him sleep, and pain management. He explained that at one
time he weighed more than 500 pounds and lost weight through surgery. He developed
back pain due to his weight and that was one of the reasons for his marijuana use. He
admitted he did not stop using it immediately after learning it was illegal because he was
weaning himself off it. During this March 2022 interview with a government investigator,
he said he would prefer not to relinquish his medical marijuana card, and he intended to
use marijuana in the future. He also said that he was willing to cease using it to keep his
job. At his hearing, he credibly stated that he will not use marijuana in the future and will
find  alternative means for controlling  his issues.  He  stopped using  it  about  six months
ago. He said he is willing to destroy his medical marijuana card and not renew it. He fully
understands the importance of remaining drug free.  Applicant credibly testified that his
life  has  turned  around,  and  he  is  ready  to  move  forward.  Post-hearing,  he  provided  a
shredded copy of his medical marijuana card to show in good faith he did not intend to
use marijuana again or renew his prescription. (Tr. 42, 50-51, 54-57; GE 2; AE C)
Two witnesses testified on behalf of Applicant. Both have served extensively in law
enforcement  for  more  than  27  years  each,  including  as  detectives,  investigators,  and
police  officers.  Both  have  extensive  experience  in  investigating  narcotics  and  alcohol-
related offenses. One was his former supervisor before her retirement and the other is
the  current  supervisor  of  security  where  he  works.  They  were  both  aware  of  his  DUI
conviction. They describe Applicant as a model employee. He was never observed being
under  the  influence  of  drugs  or  alcohol.  He  is  a  punctual,  responsible,  reliable,
dependable, and trustworthy employee. They have seen his commitment to his lifestyle
change.  He  has  taken  full  responsibility  for his  conduct  and  has  learned  from  it.  They
believe that he made a mistake, and he is worthy of a second chance. (Tr. 17-30)
Applicant provided a letter from a coworker. She believes Applicant is professional,
reliable, punctual, honest, friendly, and trustworthy. He is serious and conscientious about
security and following the rules and policies of the employer. He willingly goes above and
beyond what is required in his duties. (AE A)
