Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He is a high school graduate. He married in 2016 and
has  no  children.  He  was  employed  by  a  in  the  private  sector  from  2016  to  November
2021, when he was hired by a federal contractor.
Applicant completed a National Security Questionnaire (SF 86) in June 2022. In it
he  disclosed  that  from  January  through  May  2019,  he  used  a  vape  pen  containing
tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  a  federally  controlled  substance  that  is  the  principal
psychoactive  ingredient  in  marijuana.  He  occasionally  used  it  on  his  day  off  or  on  the
weekends to relax and sleep. He estimated that during this period he used it between 30
and 50 times. He reported that he enjoyed the relaxing aspect of the drug but did not like
the impact it had on his motivation and drive. He was also hiding it from his wife at the
time, and that ruined any enjoyment or relaxation he gained from using it. He does not
intend to use illegal drugs in the future. It was illegal where he was using it at the time.
(GE 3)
Applicant also disclosed on his SF 86 that from August 2021 to September 2021
he used his wife’s prescription of Flexeril, a muscle relaxant. He explained he injured his
back  while  doing  yard  work  and  used  two  to  three  pills  for  several  week  of  his  wife’s
prescription that she did not intend to use.  He used approximately 10-15 total pills. He
disclosed  to  the  government  investigator  In  July  2022,  that  he  previously  had  his own
prescription for the drug but ran out. In his SOR answer, he explained that although he
previously  had  a  prescription  for  this  drug,  he  understands  the  use  of  his  wife’s
prescription  was  unacceptable.  He  has  no  intention  to  ever  use  this  substance  again
without a valid prescription. (GE 2, 3, 4)
Applicant disclosed on his SF 86 that in May 2022, he used two pills of his wife’s
prescription for Tramadol over a two-day period when his allergies were bad. He stated
in  his  SOR  answer  that  at  one  time  he  had  a  valid  prescription  for  Tramadol  for  his
allergies and migraines so was aware of its benefits, but he understood that his use of his
wife’s  prescription  was  unacceptable.  He  has  sought  medical  treatment  for  his  severe
allergies. He has no intention of ever use this substance again without a valid prescription.
(GE 2, 3, 4)
