In  Applicant's Answer to  the  SOR  and  in  her Response  to  the  FORM  including  the
additional SOR  allegations, she  denied  falsifying  her answers on  her  SCA,  SOR ¶¶  1.a-
1.d, and  denied  that she  had  been  terminated  by her previous employer,  SOR ¶  1.e. She
admitted  SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.b  and  denied  SOR  ¶  2.c.  She  admitted  SOR ¶  3.a. Her  admissions
are  incorporated   in  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a   thorough   and   careful  review  of  the
pleadings and  exhibits  submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 37-year-old welding inspector employed by a defense contractor.
since November 2021. Previously she had been employed by a defense contractor from
March 2011, subject to intermittent periods where her status was in dispute, until October
2021. (Answer at 22; Item 3 at 7, 13.) She earned a bachelor’s degree in August 2018.
She has never held a security clearance. She has never married. (Item 2 at 12, 17, and
32.)
In her July 2021 SCA, Applicant denied any illegal drug use or drug activity. She
listed a single employer from 2011 to the present. During her personal subject interview
(PSI), she admitted that she voluntarily used marijuana on several occasions in the seven
years  prior  to  certifying  her  SCA,  and  detailed  various  employers  and  breaks  in
employment not listed in her SCA.
SOR  ¶   1.a:  Falsified  material  facts  in  response  to  interrogatories  dated
October  27,  2022.  Applicant  asserted  in  her  interrogatory  response  that  the  positive
urinalyses alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b were the result of secondhand smoke inhalation.
She provided two Federal reports with her Answer to support her assertion, the first from
NIDA and the second from the CDC. The NIDA found it was possible in an unventilated
room to test positive urine assays in the hours directly following exposure and the CDC
considered that someone using marijuana in a child’s home could result in the child having
detectable levels of THC but the CDC does not address whether the THC is detectable
in the child’s blood or urine stating people exposed to secondhand marijuana smoke can
test positive on a urinalysis in the hours directly following exposure studies. (Answer at
13, 17.) She did not detail how her environment was akin to the studies she provided.
SOR ¶  1.b: Falsified material facts on an SCA dated July 14, 2021, pertaining
to  “Section  23-Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity”  when  you  stated  “No”  to
whether  you had illegally  used drugs  or controlled substances  in  the  last seven
years. Applicant in her Response wrote “Yes, I said no on my [SCA] because at the time
I didn't remember doing any kind of drug.” She notes she admitted to two occurrences of
drug use in her PSI which details the various instances where she smoked or consumed
marijuana. (Item 4 at 8-9.) In her Response she stated “I said no on my [SCA] because
at the time I didn’t remember doing any kind of drug. At the time of my interview on page
8 of the interrogatories I did in  fact mention 2 different occurrences.” (Response.)  She
also had tested positive for marijuana on a urinalysis conducted in March 2021. (Item 4
at 9, 17; Answer at 5.)
SOR ¶  1.c: Falsified material facts on an SCA dated July 14, 2021, pertaining
to  “Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities"  wherein  you  listed  your  dates  of
employment at Company A as continuous from March 2011 to the present. Applicant
denied  this  allegation.  Applicant  was  employed  by  Company  A  from  March  2011  until
September 2020, when she was terminated for having a firearm on company property.
She  failed  to  disclose  her  employment  with  Company  B  from  October  2020  to  March
2021. (Item 4 at 7.) In March 2021, she was hired by Company C. (Item 4 at 7.) In her
Answer she admits that she was also briefly employed by Company C, and in her PSI,
she details the events surrounding her brief time with Company C. (Answer at 5; Item 4
at 6, 17.) She provided a statement from Company C stating that she had been hired and
left after one week. (Response at 12.)  Also, in March 2021, her appeal with Company A
was resolved. She states that she was reinstated with Company A without backpay. (Item
4 at 6.) In her Response she explains that she was told by her union representative that
her  “time  would  be  bridged,  making  it  look  more  like  a  six-month  suspension.”
(Response.)
SOR  ¶   1.d:  Tested  positive   for  marijuana   in  March  2021,  during  a   pre-
employment  drug  screening/urinalysis  for  a  job with  Company  C, an employment
activity  that you  did not  disclose  on an SCA  executed by  you on or about  July  14,
2021.  In   her  Response   Applicant   denied   the   allegation   on   the   basis  it  was  a   not  a
company test but an  in-house  test.  (Response  at 2.)  She  explains in  her Answer  and  PSI
that  she  had  tested  positive during  the  preemployment screening  process for Company
C  due   to   exposure   to   secondhand   marijuana   smoke   and   that  Company  C   had   let  her
“come  on  board with  this explanation.” (Answer at 5; Item  4  at 9, 17.) The  investigator
noted   she   hesitated   when   asked   if  she   had   a   positive   urinalysis  test  and   then   she
responded  yes to  testing  positive  for marijuana. She  told the  investigator she  had  been
exposed to  secondhand marijuana  smoke.  (Item  4  at  9.) She  explained  in her Response
that  the  sample she  provided  showed  a  negative result  based  on  the  test’s standards,  but
her employer indicated  a  laboratory test could be  positive because  of faint  presence. (Item
4 at 9.)
SOR ¶  1.e: Terminated from employment at Company A in October 2021 after
testing positive for marijuana during a urinalysis administered by your employer
immediately after being involved in a motor vehicle accident on company grounds
in  September  2021.  Applicant  in  her Response  discusses  the  positive  urinalysis.  She
stated that she “hates the fact that it happened” and her choice to party showed less than
perfect judgment. (Response.) She offers that she does not party anymore and now she
goes to work and goes home but that “sometimes [she] might relax with close friends, but
not that often.” (Response.)
SOR ¶  2.a: On or about  March  2021, you tested positive  for marijuana  on a
urinalysis  test  administered by  your employer. Applicant  admitted  this allegation. In
her Answer she  stated  she  disclosed  to  Company C  she  might  test  positive  and  noted  the
urinalysis she  took “was barely  a  positive.”  (Answer at  5.)  She  claimed  that  she  had  tested
positive due  to  exposure to  secondhand  marijuana  smoke  and  that Company C had  let
her “come on  board with this explanation.” (Item  4  at 9, 17; Answer  at 5.)  She  provided a
statement from  Company C  stating:  “As per our organization's  policies and  procedures,
all  prospective  employees  are required  to  undergo  a  thorough  pre-employment screening,
which   includes  a   drug   screening.  However, in  the   case   of   [Applicant]   her   employment
duration  was  exceptionally short,  spanning  only from  March  8, 2021,  until March 15,  2021.
Given   the   brevity   of  her  employment   [Applicant]   did   not  require   or  undergo   the   pre-
employment drug screening process.” (Response  at 12.)
SOR ¶  2.b: On or about September 2021, you tested positive for marijuana
on a urinalysis test administered by your employer. Applicant admitted this allegation.
She  tested  positive  on  a  urinalysis  for marijuana  administered  after an  accident on  her
worksite. She  told the  labor relations representative  present at the  urinalysis that it was
likely she  would  be  testing  positive  for marijuana. (Item  4  at 18, 21-22.)  In  her Answer she
stated  it was possible  that she  may have  consumed  an  edible  at a  party. She  explained
that “at the  party people  can  bring  whatever they want,  it's not far-fetched  to  say that  some
of the  desserts and  food  served  had  a  little extra  something  in it, l  would never know,  I
didn't  feel  anything,  l  was  already   drinking.”  She   also  cited   her  “sweet  tooth”  and   a
fondness for brownies and  noted  that she  could “down a  whole cookie tray” (Answer at
5.)   She   added   that  she   was  around   people   who   were   smoking   marijuana   and   was
“breathing in contaminated air.” (Answer at 5.)
SOR ¶  2.c: From at least August 2014 to at least September 2021, you used
marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  Applicant  acknowledged  in  her  PSI  that  she  had
used  marijuana  on  at least “two  occasions she  could recall.” She acknowledged trying
marijuana edibles and a marijuana lollypop that her family brought back from Europe. She
described taking a marijuana cigarette from a neighbor when she was experiencing a very
bad migraine. (Item 4 at 9.) She tested positive on a urinalysis taken after a workplace
accident in September 2021. She completed her SCA in July 2021. (Item 3; Item 4 at 9;
Item 6 at 4.)
SOR ¶  3.a: You are  indebted to  the  Federal  Government  for  delinquent  taxes
in  the   amount   of   $6,212.64   for  tax   year  2017.  As  of   the   date of   this   statement   of
Reasons,  the  taxes  remain unpaid.  In  her Answer, Applicant  admitted  the  allegation,
and  said that she  had  reduced  the  debt to  about  $1,800, that she  had  an  arrangement
with  the  IRS  to  apply her income  tax refunds to  the  debt,  that she  expected  to  significantly
reduce  or resolve the  remaining  debt with  her tax year 2022  refund, and  if the refund  was
insufficient to  resolve the  debt,  that she  would  pay the  remaining  balance. (Answer at 2,
6.) She  submitted  documentary evidence  that  her income  tax  overpayments for tax  years
2019  through  2022  were applied  by  the  IRS  to  her 2017  tax year debt including  accrued
penalties,  and  that  after the  IRS  applied  her $1,346  overpayment for tax year 2022. As of
her Response  her remaining  debt balance  was $499.  She  did not provide  documentary
evidence   of  voluntary  payments   or  of  an   arrangement   or  payment   plan   with   the   IRS.
(Answer at  6,  13; Item  4  at  10;  Item  5  at  11;  Response  at 3, 13.)  Based  solely upon  the
significant reduction  in  the  tax debt through  IRS recoupment of her tax refunds  I find  for
Applicant on  SOR ¶ 3.a.
Applicant cites the actions she has done to get her finances and lifestyle in order.
She acknowledges she made “a mistake and got stung” and she is “still feeling the pain
today.”  She  has  “kicked  out”  the  people  who  lived  in  her  home  that  were  smoking
marijuana. She  states she  “won't even  be  around  it or put myself into  a  situation  to  be
exposed again. I already know what it's like to lose just about everything you've worked
hard for behind marijuana.” (Answer at 6; Response.) She notes her finances are getting
better and that she had reduced her tax debt to just under $500 “even though everything
is getting costly.” She included multiple letters from friends in her Response attesting to
her  character,  as  well  as  a  letter  from  her  current  supervisor  who  noted  she  had
demonstrated integrity and trustworthiness. Her Response included two letters from her
treating  family  nurse  practitioner  dated  June  2022  and  May  2023.  Her  treating  family
nurse practitioner noted that she had cared for Applicant since April 2022, that she was
being treated for anxiety and psychoactive substance abuse, that it was her opinion that
the diagnosis of “’other psychoactive substance abuse’ [wa]s in remission,” that she was
compliant with  her treatment plan, and concurrently sees a therapist. (Response at 5-11,
14, 15.)
