Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  is  on  unpaid
leave pending the outcome of this adjudication. He attended college for a period without
earning a degree. He married in 2006, divorced in 2009, married for the second time in
2015,  and  divorced  in  2018.  He  lives  with  a  cohabitant  in  what  he  describes  as  a
common-law marriage. He has three children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 17-21, 60-61; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  August  2007  until  he  was  honorably
discharged  for  medical  reasons  in  August  2008.  He  testified  that  he  served  “[a]  little
short of two years.” His DD-214 indicates that he served 11 months and 23 days. (Tr. at
19; AE A)
Applicant was still in a training command in March 2008 because of his medical
issues.  Two  soldiers  reported  that  Applicant  attempted  to  sell  them  ecstasy  (3,  4
methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA)), an illegal controlled substance. One of the
soldiers  stated  that  he  overheard  Applicant  tell  a  soldier that  he  had  two  more  to  sell.
Applicant then asked the soldier if he wanted some ecstasy. The soldier said, “hell no,”
and reported the incident to the sergeant first class on duty. (Tr. at 20, 41-42; GE 1, 7)
The  duty  sergeant  confronted  Applicant,  read  him  his  rights,  and  asked  him  to
empty his pockets and his wallet. The sergeant found two pills inside a plastic wrapper
in  Applicant’s  wallet  that  were  later  determined  to  be  MDMA.  The  sergeant  asked
Applicant  what  the  pills  were,  and  he  answered  ecstasy.  A  Criminal  Investigation
Command (CID) investigation was initiated in 2008. Applicant waived his right to remain
silent and provided a sworn statement. (GE 7)
In the sworn statement to the CID, Applicant stated that there was a song on that
was about ecstasy, and he asked the soldiers if either had used ecstasy before, but he
denied selling or attempting to sell ecstasy. He stated that he obtained the two pills in
January 2008 while at a strip club. Someone at the club  traded Applicant the two pills
for some beers. The individual said the pills were some kind of medication but  did not
say  what  medication.  Applicant  stated  that  he  assumed  they  were  some  kind  of  pain
pills. Applicant placed the pills in his wallet, where they were later discovered in March
2008 by the duty sergeant. Applicant specifically stated that he only received two pills,
and he never took any of the pills. He was given a urinalysis drug test that day, which
tested positive for MDMA. (GE 7)
The  CID  referred  the  investigation  to  Applicant’s  command  for  the  offenses  of
wrongful  possession  of  hallucinogens  with  intent  to  distribute,  wrongful  use  of
hallucinogens,  and  false  official  statement.  There  is  no  direct  evidence  of  any
disciplinary   action   against   Applicant,   and   he   was   discharged   with   an  honorable
discharge. I note  that the  CID reported  that he  was an  E-2  in March  2008, and  his  DD-
214 reported that he was an E-1 when  he was discharged.  (GE 7)
Applicant was interviewed for his background investigation in August 2021.  The
interview  was  summarized  in  a  report  of  investigation  (ROI).  Applicant  confirmed  the
accuracy  of  the  ROI  in  August  2022.  He  admitted  during  the  interview  that  several
soldiers reported that he was selling ecstasy to soldiers. He stated that people lied, that
the  military  was  a  hostile  environment,  and  he  was  not  liked.  He  stated  that  he  never
tried to sell drugs, and a drug was never obtained in the incident. (GE 2)
Applicant  provided  a  slightly  different  story  during  his  testimony.  He  denied
knowledge  that  the  pills  were  ecstasy,  and  he  denied  trying  to  sell  the  pills  to  other
soldiers.  He  stated  that  he  received  three  pills in  the  strip  club,  and  he took one  for a
headache, thinking it was pain medication. He  stated that he forgot he had the pills in
his wallet. He did not recall if he was given a urinalysis drug test, and he did not recall
being informed that he tested positive for ecstasy or MDMA. (Tr. at 41-46)
I did not find Applicant credible. I find the CID report to be far more reliable. I find
Applicant knowingly used ecstasy, had at least two ecstasy pills that he tried to sell, and
tested  positive  for  MDMA.  I  further  find  that he  intentionally  provided  false  information
about  the  incident  to  CID  (false  official  statement),  during  his  2021  background
interview, and during his testimony.
Applicant was driving with his two-year old child in a child seat in May 2019 when
he  was  stopped  by  the  police  for  defective  tail  lamps.  He  voluntarily  gave  the  police
consent  to  search  his  vehicle.  The  police  discovered  under  the  driver’s  side  seat  a
canister  of  white  powder  that  was  later  identified  through  analysis  to  be  about  three
grams  of  methamphetamine.  A  small  backpack  was  on  the  floor  by  the  front
passenger’s  seat.  There  was  a  canister  with  suspected  methamphetamine  residue  in
the backpack. A glass pipe of the type that is commonly used to smoke drugs was also
in  the  backpack.  Small  clear  baggies  were  found  in  the  driver’s  side  door  and  in  the
backpack. (Tr. at 32-41; GE 8)
When  he  was  arrested,  the  police  discovered  two  small  clear  baggies  with
methamphetamine  residue  in  his  right  front  pocket  and  a  container  with  .1  gram  of
methamphetamine  in  his  left  front  pocket.  A  med-kit  with  multiple  containers  of
suspected  THC  oil  was  found  under  the  passenger  seat.  Possession  of  marijuana  or
THC was not a violation of state law. (GE 8)
Applicant  was  charged  with  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  for  the
methamphetamine and possession of drug paraphernalia. In June 2019, a warrant was
issued for his failure to appear at a court date, and he was arrested. He stated that he
had  moved  and  did  not  receive  notice  of  the  court date.  In  October  2019,  he  pleaded
guilty  to possession of a controlled substance, and the other charges  were dismissed.
He  was  sentenced  to  supervised  probation  for  two  years,  completion  of  a  substance
abuse evaluation with the requirement to follow any recommendations, and community
service.  He  passed  multiple  drug  tests  between  May  and  December  2019.  He
completed  the  terms  of  his  probation;  it  was  converted  to  unsupervised  probation  in
November 2020; and probation was terminated early in May 2021. (Tr. at 36, 46-49; GE
6, 8-10; AE E)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
June 2021. He reported the May 2019 arrest and subsequent conviction for possession
of  a  controlled  substance.  He  denied  illegally  using  any  illegal  drugs  or  controlled
substances in the last seven years. (GE 1)
When  he  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  August  2021,
Applicant stated that he was unaware there was methamphetamine in his car when he
was  arrested
in  May  2019.  He  denied  knowingly  using  or  possessing
methamphetamine. He stated that he let someone else use his vehicle, and the person
must  have  left  the  drugs  in  his  car  without  his  knowledge.  He  stated  that  he  did  not
know  the  friend’s  name,  and  he  no  longer  associated  with  him.  He  also  told  the
investigator that the June 2019 arrests for failure to appear were for the same incident.
(GE 2)
Applicant testified that he was going through a difficult time in his marriage, and
he used methamphetamine on one occasion before his arrest. He admitted that he had
baggies in his pocket that were from when he used methamphetamine. He continued to
deny  that  he  knew  there  was  methamphetamine  in  his  vehicle.  He  stated  he  lent  the
vehicle to the friend he used methamphetamine with, and that person must have left the
methamphetamine in the vehicle. He denied any additional drug involvement. He stated
that  he  took  responsibility  for  his  bad  decision  to  use  methamphetamine,  and  he
disassociated himself from anyone involved in illegal drugs. (Tr. at 32-40; AE E)
Applicant  denied  being  untruthful  during  his  2021  background  interview.  He
testified that he did not mention to the investigator that baggies were found in his pocket
because he did not remember that fact. (Tr. at 40-41, 49-50, 59; GE 2)
I  did  not  find  Applicant  credible.  I  find  he  knowingly  possessed  and  used
methamphetamine. I further find that he intentionally provided false information when he
failed  to  list  his  use  of  methamphetamine  on  his  SF  86,  during  his  2021  background
interview when he stated that he was unaware there was methamphetamine in his car
and  he  denied  knowingly  using  or  possessing  methamphetamine,  and  during  his
testimony.
The  SOR  alleges  a  $3,069  collection  account  to  a  bank  (SOR  ¶  1.a),  a  $483
collection  account  to  a  telecommunications  company  (SOR  ¶  1.b),  and  a  balance  of
$16,364 due on an auto loan after the vehicle was repossessed (SOR ¶ 1.c). Applicant
admitted owing the first two debts, but he stated that he paid the auto debt. The debts
are  listed  on  one  or  more  credit  reports.  Applicant  did  not  report  any  financial  issues
when he submitted his June 2021 SF 86, even though all the debts were delinquent by
then. (GE 1, 3-5)
Applicant  stated  that  the  $3,069  collection  account  to  a  bank  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  was
used to buy an engagement ring for his second wife. He stated that he tried to get the
ring back from her after they separated, but she told him that she lost the ring. He was
unable  to  get  her  to  pay  the  account,  so  he  unsuccessfully  disputed  it  with  the  credit
reporting  agencies.  He  stated  that  he  then  did  not  have  the  ability  to  pay  the  debt.  In
October 2023, he agreed to make partial payments of $100 a month for seven months,
with  the  first  payment  due  on  October  20,  2023.  He  testified  that  he  made  the  first
payment,  but  he  did  not  provide  any  documentary  evidence.  (Tr.  at  21-24;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 3-5; AE B)
Applicant  stated  that  the  $483  collection  account  to  a  telecommunications
company  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  was  for  equipment  that  he  returned,  but  the  company  did  not
have  records  that  it  was  returned.  He  stated  that  if  he  was  given  a  receipt  for  the
returned  equipment, he  no  longer has  it. He unsuccessfully  disputed  the debt  with the
credit  reporting  agencies.  He  has  decided  to  pay  the  debt.  (Tr.  at  24-26;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2-5)
SOR  ¶ 1.c alleges an unpaid  balance of $16,364 due on an auto loan after the
vehicle  was  repossessed.  Applicant  testified  that  the  vehicle  developed  transmission
problems,  and  he  was  told  he  needed  a  new  transmission.  He  had  an  extended
warranty on the vehicle, but the holder of the warranty told him that he did not need a
new transmission. He stopped paying the loan, and the vehicle was repossessed. The
vehicle was auctioned, and the creditor waived any deficiency, resulting in a $0 balance.
During  his  background  interview  in  July  2021,  he  stated  that  he  bought  a  more
expensive  vehicle  than  he  could  afford,  he  missed  payments,  and  the  vehicle  was
repossessed.  He  never  mentioned  transmission  problems.  (Tr.  at  26-30;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2-5; AE C, D)
Applicant stated that his finances are now in order. He stated that he intends to
pay the remaining SOR debts. (Tr. at 21-32, 58)
Applicant  submitted   documents  and   letters  attesting   to   his  excellent  job
performance   and   strong   moral  character.  He  is  praised   for  his  work  ethic,   expertise,
trustworthiness,  professionalism, commitment  to  the  mission,  craftsmanship,  dedication,
leadership, reliability, and  integrity. He is recommended  for a  security clearance. (AE F-
K)
