Applicant is a 26-year-old U.S. citizen. He was born in the United States in 1997.
In  1998,  when  he  was one  year old,  his parents moved  with  him  to  Poland,  where  he
has resided ever since. He became a naturalized Polish citizen in 2006. Since at least
2015, he has resided with his parents. In 2021, he obtained a bachelor’s degree from a
Polish university. He was scheduled to obtain a master’s degree from a Polish university
in  July 2023,  but  the  record  is not  clear  as  to  whether he  did  so.  His  classes  for  both
these degrees were funded by the Polish government. Since 2016, he has worked for a
Polish  company  located  in  Poland.  He  has  an  employment  offer  from  a  U.S.  defense
contractor. He has a Polish fiancée, whom he planned to marry in August 2023, but his
current marital status is unclear. He has no children. (Items 2-4)
Applicant’s father holds U.S. and Polish citizenships. His mother holds U.S. and
Ukrainian  citizenships.  Prior  to  1998,  they  lived  in  the  United  States  for  20  years,  but
after 1998, they have resided in Poland. Applicant’s fiancée is a citizen and resident of
Poland. He and his fiancée plan on living in Poland once they are married. He has two
older brothers who are citizens of the United States and Poland and reside in Poland.
There  is no  evidence that he has  anything other than a close familial  relationship with
his  parents,  siblings,  and  fiancée.  His  closest  friends  are  also  citizens  and  resident  of
Poland. (Items 2-4)
for
In  February  2023,  when  he  submitted  his  Electronic  Questionnaire
Investigations Processing (SF 86), he reported that he holds a Polish passport that was
valid from October 2013 until October 2023. Between August 2014 and January 2023,
he  reported  that  he  traveled  extensively  using  this  Polish  passport.  He  also  traveled
extensively using an earlier Polish passport that expired in 2016. He holds a valid U.S.
passport that expires in 2025. Earlier, he held a U.S. passport that expired in 2016. He
had traveled using his current U.S. passport once when he visited the United States in
2019,  and  his  now  expired  U.S.  passport  when  he  visited  the  U.S.  in  2015.  He  also
used a U.S. passport to travel prior to obtaining Polish citizenship in 2006. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant  has  never  been  a  member  of  the  Polish  military.  However,  he  has
received education and healthcare benefits from the Polish government. He has voted
in both Polish and U.S. elections. There is no evidence that he owns any real property
in either the United States or Poland. He claimed that he has some family in the United
States, but he did not specify who they are or their relation to him.  He and his fiancée
visited his family in the United States once on an undisclosed date. He claimed that he
is  involved  in  U.S.  civic  and  community  organizations  such  as  the  Ukrainian  Orthodox
Church  of  the  USA.  He  acknowledged  that  he  has  few  friends  in  the  United  States.
(FORM Response; Items 3, 4
Applicant  claimed  that  his  family  in  Poland  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or
intimidate him into revealing classified information. He also claimed that his allegiance is
to  the  United  States,  not  Poland,  and  that  he  is  willing  to  renounce  his  Polish
citizenship. (FORM Response; Item 2)
In  Item  5,  the  Government  included  information  from  the  U.S.  Department  of
State  as  of  September  2023,  about  the  United  States'  relations  with  Poland  and  the
current conditions in that country. I take administrative notice of the information included
in those documents including, but not limited to:
The  United  States  and  Poland  are  longstanding,  staunch  allies  and  are  both
members  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO).  They  partner  closely  on
policies  involving  counterterrorism,  human  rights,  nonproliferation,  economic  growth,
and energy security. The United States and Poland are involved in regular and recurring
joint military exercises. Poland has a stable government, and it is a party to a bilateral
agreement on business and economic relations with the United States. (Item 5)
