Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  with  explanations.  His  admissions  are
adopted as findings of fact. After a careful review of the pleadings and evidence, I make
the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  32  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  since
December 2019, as a technology specialist. From October 2019 to December 2019, he
was  unemployed.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate  and  has  taken  some  college  courses.
He is currently engaged and he has one child from this relationship. His significant other
also has a child. (Tr. 6-7, 26-27, 46; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  had  nine  delinquent  student  loans,  in  collection
status, totaling approximately $40,000. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.i) It also alleged that he failed to
file his 2017 to 2021 federal and state income tax returns, as required, (SOR ¶ 1.j)
Applicant  admitted  the  nine  delinquent  student  loans.  He  took  out  the  student
loans  in  the  period  of  2010  to  2014  when  he  attended  art  school.  He  further  admitted
that he has not made any payments toward these debts. The reasons he gave for failing
to pay toward the debts were that he believed his parents were paying these loans until
he had a falling out with them. He admitted not following up to set up his own payment
process. The other reason he gave was that when he checked with a commercial credit
reporting  service,  it  indicated  that  the  student  loans  had  reverted  back  to  the
government. He thought that meant he no longer was responsible to pay them. He did
not  take  any  further  action  until  he  received  the  SOR  when  he  contacted  the
Department of Education directly and found out about the delinquent status of his loans.
Documentation from his current student loan servicer showed that as of July 2023, his
student loans were in excess of $51,000. (Tr. 28, 30-31; AE C)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  set  up  a  payment  plan  but  that  plan  was  put  on  hold
because of the student loan relief legislation resulting from COVID-19. His credit report
from February 2022, shows that all of his student loans were placed in collection status
in  2017,  years  before the  COVID-19  relief.  He  most  recently  was  sent  a  notice  by  his
student loan servicer telling him that his loan payments will resume in October 2023. He
did  not  provide  any  payment  information  after  receiving  this  notice.  His  student  loans
remain unresolved. (Tr. 28; GE 3; AE D)
Applicant admitted that he failed to timely file his 2017-2021 federal and state tax
returns. In his October 2022 interrogatory responses, he stated the reason for his failure
to  file  was  because  he  did  not  have  the  means  or  resources  to  file  and  that  “life  was
difficult.” After receiving the SOR, he contacted a tax professional to assist in preparing
his unfiled tax returns. She supplied  a letter on December 5, 2022, indicating that she
would have the returns prepared by December 7, 2022. Applicant claims his 2017-2021
federal and state returns have been filed, although he does not remember when exactly.
He  did  not  provide  documentation  of  any  returns  received  by  the  IRS  or  the  state  tax
authority. He provided a copy of a U.S. Postal Service receipt showing that on August 8,
2023,  three  documents  were  mailed  to  his  state’s  taxing  authority  and  one  document
was mailed to his regional IRS office. He provided no other correspondence concerning
his tax filing status. He testified that he has not filed his 2022 federal or state tax returns
(I will not use his 2022 tax information for disqualifying purposes, but I may use it in my
credibility, mitigation, and whole-person analyses). His unfiled tax return issues remain
unresolved. (Tr. 27-28, 38-43; AE A-B)
Applicant  produced  a  character  letter  from  a  personal  friend  who  is  a  special
agent  for  another  government  agency.  The  friend  believes  Applicant  is  honest,
demonstrates integrity, and possesses the highest moral character. The letter does not
state whether the author is aware of the circumstances of Applicant’s case. (AE E).
