Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant has never entered into a civil marriage or legally recognized civil union,
but  has  cohabited  with  another  since  August  2021  and  considers  herself  married,
although  not  legally  married.  She  has  no  children.  (GE  1)  She  earned  a  high  school
diploma  in  May  2011  and  completed  military  training  classes  between  May  and
November 2013 without earning a degree or diploma. (GE 1) Between November 2015
and  May  2016,  she  attended  military  university  classes  without  earning  a  degree  or
diploma. (GE 1) Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force (AF) in March 2013 and served
three years of active duty before receiving an honorable discharge in December 2016.
(GE  1)  She  enlisted  in  the  AF  National  Guard  in  her  state  of  residence  in  December
2016 and served four and one-half years of Active Reserve duty. (GE 1) In May 2021,
she  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions  after  testing  positive  for
THC during a random urinalysis screening conducted in approximately February 2021.
(GE 1)
Since June  2021, Applicant has worked for her current employer as a simulator
technician. (GE 1) Previously, she worked for another defense contractor as a simulator
technician.  Between  December  2016  and  May  2021,  she  was  employed  as a  full-time
military  technician  for  her  Air  National  Guard  unit.  Applicant  held  a  security  clearance
throughout her active-duty AF career.  (GE 1-4 and AEs A-B and D; Tr. 13-14)
Applicant’s  positive drug test
During  her  three  years  of  active  AF  duty,  Applicant  never  used  illegal  drugs
(marijuana included) and was randomly tested for illegal drugs five to six times without
any positive test results. (Tr. 33-34) Drug testing was also a requirement for her current
job, which she passed in 2021. (Tr. 33)
In  February  2021,  Applicant  tested  positive  for  THC  in  her  system  during  a
random urinalysis screening in February 2021. (GEs 1-2) How much THC was found in
her  system  is  unclear,  as  no  documented  test  findings  were  supplied  by  either  the
Government or Applicant.  As the direct result  of her positive drug test,  she received  a
General Discharge Under Honorable Conditions. (GEs 1-2) Applicant does not deny her
positive  drug  test;  she  only  disputes  any  inferred  pre-test  knowing  and  intended
ingestion of THC.
More specifically, Applicant denied any intentional or knowing receipt and use of
marijuana or other illegal drugs containing THC in either February 2021, or at any time
preceding  or after  her positive  drug  test.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  D;  Tr.  33-38)  She  assured
she  borrowed  a  vape pen  from  her mother-in-law  during  a  visit  to her  home  while  her
husband  was  away  on  AF  deployment.  (Tr.  43-44)  The  mother-in-law  told  Applicant
she used the vape pen to mitigate her back pain. (Tr. AE C; Tr. 42) Detecting no scent
and  finding  no  reason  to  believe  the  vape  pen  might  contain  a  substance  other  than
nicotine, she accepted the vape pen from her mother-in-law and inhaled one time. (Tr.
41-42)  Unbeknownst  to  her,  the  vape  pen  contained  THC.  (GEs  1-2  and  M;  Tr.  40)
While the vape pen did not taste right to her in the one time she inhaled from the pen,
she encountered no symptoms that would have prompted her to believe she might have
inhaled a controlled substance. (Tr. 42-43)
Applicant  was  corroborated  on  her  account  of  innocence  by  her  mother-in-law
who  denied  any  knowledge  of  THC contents in  the  vape pen  she  furnished  Applicant.
(AE C; Tr. 35) While Applicant could not attest to her mother-in-law’s overall character
(claiming  she  regularly  acts  without  consideration  of  others),  she  did  not  deny  or
question  the  truthfulness  of  her  mother-in-law’s  own  denial  of  any  knowledge  of  the
contents of the vape pen. (Tr. 35) Since the incident, her mother-in-law moved back to
her previous state of residence. Because of some of the character questions Applicant
harbored  about  her  mother-in-law,  she  has  kept  her  communications  with  her  to  a
minimum. (Tr. 35)
While acknowledging her smoking from the vape pen loaned her by her mother-
in-law  and  later testing  positive  for THC (i.e.,  34  ng/mL) in  her system  in a  conducted
random  drug  test,  she  denied  knowing  at  the  time  that  the  substance  she  inhaled
contained  THC.  (Tr.  38)  While  she  didn’t  challenge  the  sufficiency  of  the  test  results,
she never offered any specific detailed knowledge of DoD’s testing criteria when asked.
(Tr. 38)
Without  the  full  testing  details  of  Applicant’s  February  2021  randomized  drug-
testing  results  and  administrative  record  of  the  Air  National  Guard  separation
proceedings, testing results detailing the percentage of THC content in her blood stream
cannot be reliably traced and evaluated. DoD’s Technical procedures for its drug testing
program  prescribes  two  check  points  for  testing  an  applicant’s  THC  level  in  a
randomized  drug  test.  (HE  1)  One  records  the  initial  screening  level  of  THC  in  the
applicant’s  blood  stream  and  refers  any  testing  of  a  subject’s  THC  concentration  test
results  exceeding  the  50  ng/mL  cutoff  level  to  further  testing  for  a  confirmatory  test
cutoff  concentration  level.  See  DoD  Instruction  1010.16,  supra.  For  confirmatory  test
cutoff concentrations, the test cutoff concentration is only 15 ng/mL  (HE 1)
Whether  Applicant’s  reported  34  ng/mL  THC  content  from  her  February  2021
urinalysis represented her initial screening result or an ensuing confirmatory test result
is unclear. Applicant admitted only that her reported 34 ng/mL test result exceeded a 15
ng/mL  limit  when  asked,  without  clarifying  whether  her  reported  34  ng/mL  test  results
represented  the  initial  screening  results  or  the  confirmatory  results.  (Tr.  38)  Without
documented  test  results  and  the  transcript  of  the  Administrative  Separation  Board’s
proceedings, findings on the core issue of whether Applicant knowingly and consciously
ingested  THC  from  her  borrowed  vape  pen  cannot  reliability  determined.  Although
DOHA  fact  finders  are  not  estopped  from  making  favorable  findings  on  issues  of
knowledge and intent that presumably run contrary to the findings of a separation board,
they are constrained to respect a separation board’s findings unless challenged by facts
that  clearly  warrant  different  results.  Without  the  Administrative  Separation  Board’s
findings and transcript to review the Board’s findings must be respected and adopted.
When asked about what she faced from the convened Administrative Separation
Board,  Applicant  replied  that  the  Board  was  interested  in  two  issues:  whether  she
intentionally  smoked  marijuana  and  if  so,  whether  she  should  be  separated.  (Tr  52)
While she believed that some of the Board members were not convinced she knowingly
ingested  THC  from  a  borrowed  vape  pen,  she  came  away  from  the  hearing  with  the
impression that the Board’s legal office could not excuse her from any imputed knowing
ingestion  of  THC  and  mandated  her  separation  without  breaking  precedent  with  an
exception. (Tr. 53-56)
Convinced  her  chain  of  command  believed  her  and  worked  to  retain  her,  her
command,  she  acknowledged  her  command’s  ultimate  reliance  on  its  furnished  legal
advice and issuance of a  General Discharge Under Honorable Conditions to Applicant
in  May  2021.  (Tr.  53-54)  Without  the  transcript  of  the  Board’s  proceedings  to  validate
her  recited  understanding  of  what  transpired  in  the  proceedings,  her  understanding  of
what transpired in the proceedings cannot be substituted for the Board’s implicit findings
of knowing use of a substance containing THC.
With no administrative record to verify and validate Applicant’s impressions, the
most that can be inferentially drawn from Applicant’s Administrative Separation Board’s
findings is that the Board hearing her claims found enough wrongful or reckless use of
her  borrowed  vape  pen  to  warrant  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.
(GEs 1-2 and AE D) Because she did not elect to appeal the Board’s general discharge
findings  to  the  Air  Force’s  board  of  correction,  the  Administrative  Separation  Board’s
findings and conclusions were finalized. (Tr. 57)
When the concentration of THC in tested urine exceeds 50 ng/mL, most tests will
yield  a  positive  result  according  to  data  compiled  by  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control
and Prevention. See https//www.cdc.gov. In defense of her assurances that she did not
knowingly ingest THC-laced content with the vape pen furnished her, she claimed she
found  the  pen  to  have  “no  scent”  and  produced  no  sense  of  drug  intoxication.  (GE  1)
Only  after  she  was  randomly  tested  for  illegal  drugs  days  later  did  she  learn  that  her
borrowed  vape  pen  contained  THC.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  O)  To  reinforce  her  own
understanding of typical symptoms of intoxicating use of marijuana products, she cited a
study  from  the  National  Library  of  Medicine  that  identified  some  typical  symptoms
associated with ingested high doses of marijuana. (AE G)
Besides denying any knowing and intended ingestion of THC from the vape pen
she was provided in February 2021, Applicant cited the legalization of marijuana in her
state  of  residence,  while  acknowledging  its  illegality  under  federal  law  and  DoD  drug
policy  constraints.  (GEs  1-2)  What  this  illustrates  is  Applicant’s  understanding  of  the
comparative legal criteria to be applied when assessing the credibility of her claims that
she had no pre-test knowledge of the THC contents in the vape pen she was furnished
by her mother-in-law.
What  the  comparison  of  her  understanding  of  the  respective  federal  and  state
laws does not answer is the question of what criteria should be used to assess her own
credibility. Should credibility inferences of actual knowledge or intention to use a THC-
laced  product  be  drawn  based  on  the  consideration  and  weighing  of  Applicant’s
subjective  claims  of  a  lack  of  knowledge  and  intent,  or  should  a  more  objective  civil
standard be used that takes account of all of the surrounding circumstances?
Using an accepted DOHA blend of personal subjective knowledge and intention
accounts  of  the  applicant  assessed  along  with  all  of  the  surrounding  circumstances,
Applicant’s credibility is firmly established in the accounts she has given with the aid of
corroborating sources. Even without an administrative record of the detailed test results
and ensuing Administrative Separation Board proceedings to fully assess and evaluate
the  merits  of  a  discharge  based  solely  on  her  positive  test  results,  Applicant  can  be
presumed to  have offered a  consistent account of her  lack of  knowledge and intent  to
the administrative separation board (even if ultimately rejected by the board).
Endorsements
Applicant’s  chain  of  command  and  current  supervisors  and  coworkers  hold
Applicant in high esteem and confidence. (AEs H-N) Uniformly, they credit her with an
exemplary  work  ethic,  honesty,  professionalism,
trustworthiness,  and  overall
outstanding  character.  Her  references  expressed  knowledge  of  her  positive  drug  test
without  covering  the  details.  (AEs  H-N;  Tr.  24-25)  Applicant  earned  numerous  awards
recognizing her AF contributions. (Tr. 19)
