Applicant is a 33-year-old married woman with one child, an infant. She is a senior
program analyst for a defense contractor. Her duties include serving as a transportation
liaison between the United States and another country. She has worked in this position
for three years. Previously, she worked for another company as a logistics analyst. (GE
1  at  7)  Applicant  is  a  2012  graduate  of  an  elite  military  academy.  She  later  earned  a
master’s degree of business administration. (Tr. 20)
When  Applicant  was  in  middle  school,  she  was  diagnosed  with  attention  deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). (Tr. 45) Her physician prescribed Adderall to help treat her
condition.  (GE  3  at  21)  Its  generic  name  is  dextroamphetamine,  and  it  is  in  the  same
family of drugs as amphetamine. (GE 1 at 27)
After  Applicant  was  accepted  into  the  military  academy,  officials  reviewed  her
medical records and told her that ADHD was a disqualifying condition, and that she would
need  to  obtain  a  waiver  in  order  to  continue  taking  her  ADHD  medication.  (Tr.  47)
Applicant did not pursue a waiver. Instead, she opted to quit taking the medicine and see
how well she could function without it.
Subsequently, Applicant  struggled in  school. (Tr. 50) When  she  came home for
winter break, she decided to resume her ADHD medication. Rather than go to a physician
and  get  another  diagnosis,  however,  she  began  taking  pills  left  over  from  a  bottle  of
medicine that she had been prescribed before starting college.
Shortly after returning to school from winter break, Applicant was administered a
random  drug  test  and  tested  positive  for  amphetamines.  Pending  a  disciplinary
proceeding,  Applicant  spoke  with  her  immediate  supervisor  who  advised  her  not  to
disclose the circumstances surrounding her resumption of ADHD medicine. Instead, he
told her to tell the officer in charge of the disciplinary proceeding that she received the
ADHD medicine from a friend. (Tr. 28) Applicant took the advice of her superior officer,
and  she  was  subsequently  punished  with  60  days  of  room  restriction  with  30  days
suspended. (Tr. 50)
Ultimately,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  again  with  ADHD  and  prescribed  the
medication. (Tr. 28, 47) This time, she obtained a waiver. She graduated from the military
academy in 2012. (Tr. 20)
In  response  to  interrogatories  propounded  in  2020,  Applicant  was  asked  to
disclose any illegal drug use, including any prescription drug without a prescription. She
disclosed her Adderall use but stated that she was first prescribed it in 2009 when she
was 19, instead of earlier when she was in middle school, as was actually the case. (GE
8 at 9) In 2021, she provided a letter from her current physician setting forth the amount
of Adderall prescribed per day and the length of time that the current physician has been
monitoring her Adderall use. (GE 1 at 27)
In  2013,  after graduating  from  college,  Applicant  deployed  to  a  combat  theater.
(GE  11  at  1)  While  deployed,  she  served  as  the  executive  officer  of  a  headquarters
company  of  a  support  battalion.  (Tr.  32)  She  served  in  this  combat  theater  for
approximately seven months.
After  Applicant  completed   her  combat  tour   of  duty,   she   was  transferred   to   an
assignment  in  the   United   States.  On   July  4,  2014,  while  on   leave,  she   celebrated
Independence   Day   with   her  spouse,  enjoying   alcoholic  drinks  at   several  bars  while
strolling   through   the   downtown  area   and   enjoying   the   fireworks.    A   few  days  later,
Applicant  was  administered   a   random   drug   test,   and   tested   positive  for  nordazepam,
oxazepam, and  temazepam. These  drugs are  derivatives of Valium. Subsequently, she
was  charged   under  Article  112a   of  the   Uniform   Code   of  Military  Justice   (UCMJ)  with
wrongful  use  of a  controlled  substance. (GE  10  at 2) Applicant  contended  that  she  did  not
intentionally take  these  drugs, and  that a  man  who  brought  her a  drink during  the  4th  of
July festivities must  have  spiked  it. (These  drugs are commonly known on  the  street  as
date  rape  drugs.  (GE 1  at  41; 99-106; GE  8  at  2,  7)). Ultimately,  she  was found  guilty and
administratively separated  with  a  general discharge  under honorable  conditions.  (GE 11
at 1)
In March 2015, after leaving the armed services, Applicant took a private-sector
job  as  a  manufacturing  supervisor.  (GE  13  at  2)  Before  starting  work,  she  signed  a
document acknowledging that the company had a drug and alcohol-free workplace policy.
(GE  13  at  1)  In  May  2016,  Applicant  failed  a  randomly administered  drug  test,  testing
positive for marijuana, leading to her termination later that month. (GE 13 at 10) Applicant
discussed  this  episode  on  two  successive  security  clearance  applications  completed
respectively in 2016 and 2021. On both applications, she explained that this was the first
time she had ever tried marijuana and that she did not realize it was still illegal. (GE 6 at
34;  GE 7  at 36-37) During  a  personal subject  interview in  2017, when  asked  why  she
used  marijuana,  Applicant  stated  that  she  did  not  know.  (GE  8  at  2)  At  the  hearing,
Applicant’s explanation alternated between using marijuana to counteract the symptoms
of post-traumatic stress syndrome after having tried a number of ineffective, prescribed
medicines, and using marijuana not knowing that it was illegal in the state where she used
it. (Tr. 31-32) She has no intent of using marijuana again. (AE F)
Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job  and  her  community.  According  to  her
supervisor, she has received numerous awards, all of which are testaments to her “work
ethic, esprit de corps, courage, and honesty.” (AE D at 9) According to one of Applicant’s
government customers, she  is “a total joy” to  be around. (AE  D at 4) Also,  Applicant is
highly  dedicated  to  volunteerism,  serving  in  multiple  local  volunteer  positions  over  the
years,  including  a  local  citizen’s  advisory  board,  a  local  historical  society,  and  an
environmental organization where she assists with developing public community gardens.
(AE C at 2, dated June 6, 2023, at 2-3; AE D at 15)
