Applicant denied all allegations contained in the SOR except SOR ¶ 1.d. (Answer)
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  amended  his  Answer  to  change  all  of  his  denials  to
admissions under Guidelines J, G and E. (Tr. 10) After a thorough and careful review of
the admissions, pleadings, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 54 years old. He earned an associate’s degree in 2004. He has never
been married, and he does not have any children. Since September 2017, he has been
employed by a federal contractor as a machinery maintenance mechanic.  He  is in the
process of applying for a DOD security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 29-30; AE K)
Criminal Conduct:
In order to keep the events in chronological order, I will reverse the order of the
SOR allegations.
Applicant was arrested in December 1990 and charged with disorderly conduct.
(SOR ¶ 1.k) He testified that he was staying in a dormitory when a fight occurred. The
police report in evidence showed that the victim specifically identified Applicant as being
one of the main assailants. The victim had seen Applicant holding a gun, thought to be a
BB-gun, behind his back. The police found five rounds of .38spl, two WCC round nose
lead rounds with brass cases, two federal round nose lead rounds with nickel cases, and
one Winchester .38+P jacketed hollow point round, in Applicant’s pants pocket. Applicant
admitted  that  the  police  did  find  his  bullets,  but  he  claimed  that  his  bullets  were  on  a
keychain that had been discovered in his dresser drawer. There was no mention in the
police report that these bullets were found on a keychain or recovered from his dresser.
Applicant admitted he had missed the original court date, and a bench warrant had been
issued  for  his  arrest.  He  was  found  guilty  of  an  ammunitions  violation  and  disorderly
conduct. He paid restitution and a fine. He denied he had a BB gun or a pellet pistol the
night of his arrest. (Tr. 77-82; GE 2, 6, 7)
In September 1992,  Applicant was  charged with open container in a vehicle. An
arrest warrant was outstanding for Applicant’s  contempt of court charge, as noted above,
and he was taken into custody. This offense was not alleged in the SOR. (GE 2, 6)
Applicant was arrested in November 1991 and charged with aggravated assault.
(SOR ¶ 1.j) He testified that his younger sister had been beat up by a group of girls and
returned home. The parents of the girls came to his house to confront his sister. One of
the parents pushed his sister, so he got in the middle and he may have pushed the parent
off of his younger sister. He believed a neighbor had called the police and he and one of
the  parents  were  arrested.  At  court  they  both  decided  that  they  did  not  want  to  press
charges and the case was dismissed. (Tr. 74-77; GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges that on September 14, 1992 Applicant was arrested and charged
with disorderly conduct. Applicant testified that he was in a group of eight friends, and
they had just finished watching a movie. They were in a strip mall playing around, acting
immature,  and  pushing  each  other  when  the  police  arrived  and  arrested  them  for
disorderly conduct. He was 23 years old at the time. They all appeared before the judge
and were found not guilty. (Tr. 71-73; GE 2)
In  about  September  1996,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  disorderly
conduct.  (SOR  ¶  1.h)  Applicant  testified  that  some  of  his  family  members  were  in  the
courtroom because the defendant had killed his father after driving under the influence of
alcohol.  Some  of  the  defendant’s  family  members  were  also  in  the  courtroom,  and
Applicant had witnessed one member shove his mother. He got in between his mother
and the defendant’s family member and a big commotion broke out in the courtroom. The
bailiff  charged  all  of  the  family  members  with  disorderly  conduct.  The  charges  were
subsequently dismissed. (Tr. 70-71)
SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  in  April  2004  and  charged  with
aggravated  assault.  He  explained  that  his  second  oldest  sister  suffers  from  bipolar
disorder, and she  threatened their mother. Applicant and his brother told her to leave the
house.  His  sister  called  the  police  and  reported  false  accusations  about  him  and  his
brother. They were both arrested despite neither one of them had touched their sister.
The charges against them were eventually nolle prosequi. (Tr. 66-70)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  in  June  2007  for  soliciting
prostitution. He testified that an old female friend of his had asked him to meet with her
because she had just learned that Applicant’s mother had passed away in 2006. He did
not know that she was a prostitute. He met with her in his car in front of her grandmother’s
house. The police pulled up behind him, questioned them separately, and then informed
Applicant that he was being arrested for soliciting prostitution. He claimed they had been
talking in the car for approximately 30 minutes. Applicant presumed his female friend must
have said something incriminating to the police for them to arrest him, or speculated that
maybe the police assumed he had been doing something illegal because they were aware
this female was a prostitute. Applicant stated the judge dismissed the charge against him.
(Tr. 58-66)
In October 2010, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol
(DUIA). (SOR ¶ 1.e). He testified:
I fractured  of  a bone  in  my foot and  I had a  boot cast on. So  I was  going  to
CVS  pharmacy to  pick  up  a  prescription.  And  as  I  was  coming  out  of  the
pharmacy, it was,  a  commotion  was going  on. I was in Chicago  at the  time.
It   was  commotion   that  was  going   on   in  that  area.  I  don't  know  what
happened,  but it  was  a  commotion  that  was  going  on.  Before  I  even  got  to
the  car, the  police  had  pulled, had  stopped  me  before I got into  the  car. And
as I didn't even  get into  car to  drive  it, they  were  saying  that,  you  know, they
charged  me with  a DUI. (Tr. 52)
Applicant stated that he believed he was arrested due to racial profiling, and that
the police officer did not even offer him a field sobriety test. Although there was no arrest
record provided, a certified statement of disposition showed that Applicant was found not
guilty of the DUIA. This alcohol-related arrest was not listed on his February 2022 SCA.
(Tr. 54; AE E)
In June 2011, Applicant was arrested for driving on a revoked/suspended license.
(SOR ¶ 1.d). He testified that although he was found not guilty of DUIA in May 2011, he
was unaware that his driver’s license had been suspended following this arrest. He also
was  unaware  that  he  needed  to  pay  a  fee  to  have  his  driver’s  license  reinstated.  He
explained this to the judge and was sentenced to perform community service. The charge
was subsequently dismissed. (Tr. 56-58; GE 2)
In  February  2020,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  domestic
battey/physical contact (SOR 1.c.) that led to a protective order against Applicant, and his
August 2020 arrest for the violation of that protective order (SOR 1.b). Applicant testified
that in February 2020, he resided with his fiancée (F), his fiancée’s son (FS), the son’s
partner  (SP), and  the  son’s children. At the  time, SP was  prohibited  by Department of
Children and Family Services from supervising  the children. While F and FS were away,
Applicant became upset that SP was left to care for the children. FS returned home and
he and Applicant got into an argument. Eventually F arrived home, and she called the
police to report that Applicant had just pushed her. She made additional false allegations
against  Applicant  to  police.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with  domestic  battery.  On
February  25,  2020,  F  filed  for  a  protective  order  against  Applicant.  While  an  interim
protective order was in effect, F claimed that Applicant circled her residence in his car;
however, Applicant countered that he no longer had the make and model of car F had
identified. (Tr. 35-52; AE C, D, V, X; GE  1, 2, 5)
Applicant submitted documentation that showed his newer car, a Honda CRV, was
purchased on May 6, 2020. He possessed his original car for over two months after the
interim protection order had been issued. On February 9, 2021, this arrest was alerted
through the DOD Continuous Evaluation Program because Applicant had failed to report
it to his employer, as required. In April 2021, over a year since his arrest and due to delays
from the pandemic, the judge found Applicant not guilty of the two charges. In September
2021, his ex-fiancee filed another protective order against him for allegedly making phone
calls. She failed to appear in court and the protective order was vacated in October 2021.
Applicant listed this arrest on his February 2022 SCA. (Tr. 35-52; AE C, D, V, X; GE 2, 5)
SOR  ¶   1.a   alleges   that  Applicant   was   arrested   in   November 2021   and   charged
with  DUIA–  2nd  offense,  improper traffic lane  usage, and  operating  an  uninsured  motor
vehicle. The  police  report disclosed  that Applicant had  reported  that  he  was  on  his way
home from his  sister’s birthday  party. Applicant at first d  enied  he  consumed  any  alcohol,
but he  later admitted  to  the  police  officer that  he  had  consumed  one  alcoholic beverage.
The  police  report  also  disclosed  that  Applicant had  participated  in  a  breathalyzer test  and
appeared  to  have  urinated  in his pants. He  was placed  under arrest after his  blood  alcohol
content (BAC)  was measured  0.245%.  Applicant’s car appeared  to  have  been  involved  in
a  hit and  run  accident since  there was significant damage  to  the  front of the  car, the  front
passenger tire was blown,  and  Applicant had  been  driving  on  the  rim. Applicant testified
that he   told   the   police   officer that   he   was not  feeling   well   and   that  he   needed  medical
treatment.  The police dropped him off at his home
Applicant  testified  that  he  had  been  to  the  dentist  to  have  a  tooth  removed  on
Thursday. He went home and was not feeling well, and he was not eating or taking his
type II diabetes medication. Around 4:00 AM on Sunday, he decided to drive himself to
the hospital. He was in a state of confusion and was pulled over by the police for driving
under 20 mph in a 45 mph zone. He did not have a sister who had a birthday during the
month  of  November,  and  he  admitted  he  was  very  confused  when  speaking  with  the
police  officer.  Applicant’s  counsel  asked  him  if  he  was  familiar  with  hyperglycemia.
Applicant  stated  that  this  condition  occurs  when  your  blood  sugar  is  not  properly
controlled with medication. The symptoms include confusion, loss of motor skills, and, if
left  untreated,  it  can  ultimately  lead  to  diabetic  stroke.  He  also  stated  that  he  takes
medication  for  type  II  diabetes,  but  he  had  not  personally  experienced  symptoms  of
hyperglycemia  because,  for  the  last  15  years,  he  had  always  taken  his  diabetic
medication  as  prescribed.  The  only  time  he  did  not  take  his  diabetic  medication  was
during this particular incident while he was suffering from extreme tooth pain. Applicant
testified that he had not consumed any alcohol that night or during the past 27 years after
his father was killed by a drunk driver in 1996. (Tr. 31-38; AE Q, R, S, U; GE 1, 2, 3, 4)
Applicant testified that after the police dropped him off at his home he called 911
to go to the hospital. A blood sample was taken that showed his blood sugar was high,
reportedly  126.  He  was  held  at  the  hospital  for  about  four  hours  and  released.  He
eventually hired an attorney who recommended that he plead guilty to the reduced charge
of reckless driving. In December 2022, Applicant pled guilty to reckless driving. He was
required to enroll in an alcohol program, use an alcohol-testing device for one year, attend
a victims-impact panel, and pay fines of $2,502.  His required use of the testing device
was later reduced to six months after he successfully passed all alcohol-breath tests. He
was also placed on probation for two years. (Tr. 38-43; AE A, B, D, F, T; GE 4)
At the time of the hearing, Applicant remained on probation, which was scheduled
to terminate on December 6, 2024. He disclosed this arrest on his February 2022 security
clearance  application  (SCA).  He  listed  that  the  DUIA  charge  was pending  and  that  he
“was on medication for tooth pain from the doctor.”  There is nothing in the police report
that indicated Applicant had told the police officer that he was not feeling well or that he
needed medical attention.  He had been taken to the police station following his arrest,
and he had refused to provide another breath sample or answer police questions. After
completing the booking process the police dropped him off at his home. Applicant testified
that he was very confused, feeling terrible, and he was likely suffering from hyperglycemia
at the time of his arrest. Since he had not consumed any alcohol, he assumed diabetic
ketoacidosis could have caused him to provide a false positive on the breathalyzer test,
based on the medical reports and studies in the record. (Tr. 38-43; AE A, B, D, F, T; GE
1, 4)
Applicant testified that he did not specifically request any alcohol test or toxicology
tests when he was hospitalized following his arrest. The hospital records reflected that
Applicant  had  apparently  complained  of  abdominal  pain  following  a  motor  vehicle
accident. There was no evidence that Applicant entered the hospital due to high blood
sugar, tooth pain, hyperglycemia, or diabetic ketoacidosis. The medical records disclosed
that  Applicant  had  no  evidence  of  acute  abnormality  in  the  chest,  abdomen,  or  pelvis
following a CT scan. His lab results showed that he scored within the normal range, low
range,  as  well  as  in  the  high  range  in  several  test  areas.  There  is  no  documentary
evidence that Applicant experienced, tested, or was treated for high blood sugar levels,
hyperglycemia, or diabetic ketoacidosis. (Tr. 44; AE T, Y)
The  medical  information,  studies,  and  reports  in  the  record  noted  that
hyperglycemia  occurs  usually  when  a  person  with  diabetes  skips  insulin  or  other
medications prescribed to lower blood-sugar levels. It stated that “Hyperglycemia usually
doesn’t cause symptoms until blood sugar (glucose) levels are high – above 180 to 200
milligrams…”  (emphasis  added;  AE  P)  The  lab  result  of  Applicant’s  blood  sugar  level
following  his  DUIA  arrest  was  reported  at  126.  (AE  T)  In  addition,  the  Mayo  Clinic’s
medical report stated that symptoms of hyperglycemia develop slowly over several days
or  weeks.  (AE  P)  In  this  instance,  Applicant  had  a  tooth  pulled  on  Thursday  and  on
Sunday  morning  at  4:30  a.m.,  he  was  arrested  for  DUIA  and  claimed  he  was  likely
suffering from hyperglycemia. Based on this information it does not appear, nor is there
any evidence to support, that Applicant was suffering from hyperglycemia at the time of
his  second  DUIA  arrest.  Applicant’s  systoms  are  consistent  with  a  highly  intoxicated
individual whose BAC was measured at 0.245%. (GE 4)
Another  medical  article  described  diabetic  ketoacidosis  as  a  severe  medical
condition  that  is  life-threatening.  This  condition  develops  after  an  individual  suffers
uncontrolled  hyperglycemia.  (AE  AA)  Because  the  record  evidence  did  not  establish
Applicant  suffered  from  hyperglycemia,  Applicant  similarly  did  not  establish  that  he
suffered from diabetic ketoacidosis. Therefore, the discussion of this medical condition is
irrelevant and not entitled to much weight in my decision. (AE P, W, AA, BB)
Applicant  was  sentenced  to  enroll  in  the  Level  2  intensive  outpatient  program
(IOP). The one-page IOP summary from an addiction counselor stated that Applicant had
successfully completed the program on January 27, 2022:
[Applicant]  has been  encouraged  to  regularly engage  in community support
group  meetings (e.g.  12-step  groups),  get a  sponsor; engage  regularly in
mental  health   treatment  and   continue   to   actively  apply  what   had   been
learned in group.  (AE J, Z)
There was no diagnosis or prognosis given in the IOP summary, but based on the
comments  provided,  it appears that  Applicant  was  treated  for  some  type  of  substance
misuse.  The  addiction  counselor’s  recommendation  that  Applicant  participate  in  a
continuing support group and obtain a sponsor infers that Applicant had misused some
type of substance. Applicant  did not  disclose  this alcohol treatment,  which he had  just
completed, on his February 2022 SCA. He did not provide complete treatment records
except for the one-page summary. There is no evidence in the record that Applicant is
complying with the addiction counselor’s recommendations.  (Tr. 44; AE J, Z; GE 1)
Applicant has been employed by a federal contractor for six years. He stated that
he  just  recently  found  out  that  he  is  required  to  report  any  arrest  to  his  employer.  He
initially denied that the employer provided annual security briefings, but then he changed
his mind and admitted they do have annual security briefings. The reporting requirement,
however, had not been discussed during those earlier security briefings. He did not report
his February 2020 arrest for domestic assault/physical contact, his August 2020 arrest for
violation of a protection order, or his November 2021 arrest for DUIA to his employer, as
required. (Tr. 98-100)
Alcohol and Personal  Conduct:
Paragaph 2 of the SOR (Guideline G) cross-alleged the two DUIA arrests (SOR
¶¶ 1.a and 1.e), and Paragraph 3 of the SOR (Guideline E) cross-alleged all of the criminal
allegations cited under Paragraph 1.
Applicant submitted seven character-reference letters. Three letters were authored
by  former  or  current  co-workers,  two  letters were  provided  by  his sisters,  and  another
letter  was  provided  by  a  collegue.  A  one-page  summary  was  also  submitted  from  the
Level 2 IOP addiction counselor, as previously discussed. All six references agreed that
Applicant was honest, trustworthy, and possesses a great deal of integrity. (AE J, U, Z)
Applicant provided a 2018 and 2021 employee year-end performance reviews. He
was  rated  a  “successful  performer”  those  two  years.  I  did  not  see  his  year-end
performance  reviews  for  2019,  2020,  or  2022.  Applicant  also  submitted  several
certificates of achievement, recognition and awards from 2001 to 2006. (AE H, M)
