Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  has  been  employed  by  the  same  company  since
August 2011 and has worked under a defense contract as a Client Field Technical Senior
Analyst since 2014. He operated a small in-home computer business from 2008 to March
2010 and worked as  resident easy tech for a  retail company from March 2010 to May
2011. He was unemployed from about May 2011 to August 2011. He has held a security
clearance since 2013. (GE 1; Tr. 36, 46, 62-66)
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  June  2004,  has  attended  an  online
university since May 2020, and is pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Information Technology
(IT). He has earned a number of IT and information security certificates. He never married
and has no children. He has cohabitated with a significant other since October 2016. (GE
1; Tr. 40, 60-62)
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H,  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  about
November  2017  to about October 2020,  and  purchased  marijuana  in about  November
2019.  The  SOR also alleges under Guideline  H,  and  cross-alleges  under Guideline E,
that  he  purchased  and  used  marijuana  from  about  November  2017  to  about  October
2020,  while  granted  access  to  classified  information  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c,  2.a).  Under
Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  had  approximately  $42,898  of  delinquent
debt. (SOR ¶ 3.a) In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all SOR allegations with
explanations, except for SOR ¶ 2.a, which he denied with explanation. (Answer)
Drug Involvement and Personal Conduct
Applicant visits family and friends in his birth state for about two weeks most years.
Marijuana  use  has  been  legal  in  his  birth  state  since  about  2012.  He  used  marijuana
during his  annual  visits  to his birth  state from  about  November 2017  to  October 2020.
During each of those annual visits he smoked marijuana with his best friend and his best
friend’s  spouse.  He  also  purchased  marijuana-infused  chocolates  (edibles)  and
consumed an edible most nights of each visit to help him sleep. In his December 2020
security clearance  application  (SCA),  Applicant denied  illegally using  or purchasing  any
drug  or controlled  substance  in  the  previous seven  years, and  he  denied  “ever”  illegally
using   or  otherwise  being   illegally  involved   with   a   drug   or  controlled   substance   while
possessing  a  security clearance. (GE  1  at 26-27, GE  2  at 12-13; Answer; Tr. 41, 45-50,
68-69, 76-79)
During a March 2021 interview with a government investigator, Applicant disclosed
that he smoked marijuana during visits to his birth state from 2017 or 2018 to October
2020. He said that he thought it was okay to smoke marijuana there because it was legal
under  state  law.  After  being  informed  that  federal  law  and  DOD  policy  prohibiting
marijuana use applied to security clearance holders even if marijuana use was permitted
under state law, Applicant said that he would not use marijuana again. He said that he
had smoked marijuana two to three times each visit over a period of about two weeks. He
said that he would take one small inhalation of marijuana from an electronic cigarette and
would feel more relaxed. He would sometimes consume marijuana edibles before going
to bed. He purchased edibles in November 2019 for about $30. He said that he ate one
or two of the edibles and left the remaining edibles with his best friend and his best friend’s
spouse. (GE 2 at 12-13)
In his June 2022 response to the SOR, Applicant stated that he ingested marijuana
“only 5-12 days” during each annual visit to his birth state from about November 2017 to
October 2020. (Answer) He said that he used marijuana primarily to help him sleep and
would “eat a single 10 mg edible” before bed. (Id.) He said that he was not “high” from
marijuana  at  any  time,  was  always  in  command  of  his  faculties,  did  not  disclose  any
sensitive information, never left his friends’ house while under the influence of marijuana,
and was never around anybody that he did not know or trust. (Id.) After learning that he
was  not  permitted  to  use  marijuana  in  his  birth  state,  he  did  not  consume  anything
containing marijuana, and told his friends that he was prohibited from using marijuana.
His friends “respected it and not only didn’t offer [him] any, but even went outside anytime
they wanted to use [marijuana].” (Id.) He said that he purchased a single pack of about
15  marijuana edibles in  November 2019. “The  people I was with  only smoked, and  did
not take edibles, so I needed to purchase them myself. Any chocolates remaining once
the trip was over, I left up there.” (Id.)
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  first  used  marijuana  in  about
November  2017  “just  on  a  whim  [he]  decided  .  .  .  I’m  hanging  out  with  some  friends,
having  trouble sleeping, here let me  try.”  (Tr. 49, 68) He normally stayed with his best
friend and his best friend’s spouse for seven to nine nights during each 12 to 13 day visit
and spent the other nights with various family members. While staying in his friend’s home
and playing video games with them, he would “take maybe a single hit [of marijuana] from
one  of the  little vape  pens”  once or twice per visit. (Tr. 48-49, 77) He said that he had
difficulty sleeping throughout the entirety of his visits so he consumed a single marijuana
edible before going to bed every night except for the first and last night of his trip, including
nights he stayed with family members. (Tr. 49, 78-79) He  purchased  edibles “one  time
per visit . . . [a]bout four times” and would leave any unused edibles with his best friend.
(Tr. 79)
Applicant was aware that the use of marijuana was prohibited under federal law
since  at  least  2013,  when  he  received  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  46)  He  said  that  he
“wasn’t aware that [he] was being held specifically to federal [law] rather than, you know,
state exceptions” and believed that he could legally use marijuana if it was legal under
state law. (Tr. 47)  Since  learning that he was prohibited from using marijuana he has
visited and stayed with his best friend and his best friend’s spouse. (AE D at 2) After he
told them that he was prohibited from using marijuana with a security clearance, “they
were very considerate and instead of using their vapes or  whatever inside, they'd step
out on the porch to use it, and [he] would of course if [he] was outside at that time, [he]'d
go back in just to avoid any secondhand issues.” (Tr. 41)
Applicant  submitted  a  signed  statement  of  his  intent  to  abstain  from  drug
involvement at the hearing. (AE B; Tr. 69) He also provided results from seven urinalyses
dated from March 2021 to February 2023 that tested negative for illegal substances. (AE
A;  Tr.  70)  He  testified  that  the  results  were  from  unscheduled  urinalyses  that  he  was
required to take every 3-6 months, as part of the process to refill a pain medication that
he had been prescribed for a shoulder injury since late 2020. (Tr. 70-71)
Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges that, as of January 2021, Applicant had enrolled approximately
$42,898 of debt into a debt resolution program and that the debt remained delinquent. In
his  Answer,  Applicant  acknowledged  incurring  debts  but  said  that  he  had  resolved  all
delinquent  accounts.  He  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  unanticipated  expenses
including  replacement  of  home  heating  and  air  conditioning  systems  and  a  hot  water
heater,  repair costs  for flooding  damage, fence  repairs  for damage  caused  by  a  fallen
tree, and his pets’ health issues.
Applicant disclosed his financial difficulties and that he was working with  a debt
consolidation  company  (DCC)  in  his  2020  SCA.  He  discussed  specific  details  of  each
debt and his debt resolution efforts during his background interview. He said that over a
period  of  several  years  he  had  accrued  delinquent  debt  because  of  unexpected
expenses. He was current on his debts but could only afford minimum payments on some
debts and continued to fall behind.
In  about  October  2019,  he  entered  an  agreement  with  a  DCC  to  negotiate
settlements with some creditors and was told to stop making payments on those debts.
By  March  2021,  the  DCC  had  resolved  most  delinquent  debts  with  funds  deposited
monthly  ($584)  by  Applicant.  In  March  2021,  he  obtained  a  debt  consolidation  loan
($24,413),  and  the  DCC  used  the  loan  proceeds  to  resolve  his  remaining  delinquent
debts. He has been current on all credit accounts since then and, as of May 26, 2023,
had reduced the debt consolidation loan balance to $12,363 by making required monthly
payments. He said that he had made all required monthly payments on a home mortgage
since  October  2016.  Documentary  evidence  including  credit  reports  from  December
2020,  June  2022  and  May  2023  corroborate  Applicant’s  claims  and  testimony.  These
debts are resolved. (Answer; GE 1-8; AE C; Tr. 41-43, 50-55, 72-75)
Character Evidence
that  comment
favorably  on  his  overall  character,  honesty,
Applicant submitted letters from his cohabitant for the past seven years, and two
friends
reliability,
trustworthiness,  adherence  to  laws  and  rules,  career  focus,  and  commitment  to
safeguarding  sensitive  information.  Each  letter  also  noted  that  Applicant  was  unaware
that  his use  of  marijuana  in  a  state  where  marijuana  use  was  legal was  prohibited  for
DOD security clearance holders, that once he learned otherwise he abstained from using
marijuana and told them about the prohibition, and each recommended that he retain his
security clearance. His cohabitant, a Master Level Clinical Mental Health Counselor and
certified alcohol and drug counselor with six years of experience in addiction treatment,
offered her personal but unofficial assessment that  Applicant did not meet the criteria of
someone suffering from any form of substance abuse or drug dependence, and that he
has not demonstrated symptoms of a substance misuse problem. (AE C-E)
Applicant’s  regional  service  manager  testified  and  authored  documents  that
commented  favorably  about  his  work  performance,  sobriety  at  work,  reliability,
trustworthiness,  and  compliance  with  rules  and  regulations  regarding  safeguarding
classified information. He testified that Applicant had a security clearance and access to
classified  information,  and  that  he  had  communicated  the  issues  with  his  security
clearance renewal process including his marijuana use. (Tr. 28-39; AE G-H)
Any  derogatory  information  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  considered  for
disqualifying  purposes;  however,  it  may  be  considered  in  the  application  of  mitigating
conditions, assessment of credibility, and in a whole-person analysis.
