Applicant is a 40-year-old naturalized U.S. Citizen. He has an employment offer
from  a  U.S.  defense  contractor  that  is  conditioned  upon  his  being  granted  security
clearance eligibility.  He  anticipates that  if  he begins  working  for this  contractor, he  will
be living and working in Iraq. He was born in Iraq to Iraqi parents. He has a bachelor’s
degree from an Iraqi university. Applicant first came to the U.S in 2013 as a refugee. He
became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  November  2018.  He  holds  both  U.S.  and  Iraqi
citizenships. He has never married and has no children. (Tr. 24-25, 28-30, 34; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s  mother   (SOR   ¶   1.a),  sister   (SOR   ¶   1.b),   brother   (SOR   ¶   1.c),   and
several  friends  are  citizens and  residents of Iraq.  His brother and  one  of these  friends
(SOR  ¶  1.d)  are teachers employed  by the  Iraqi  Ministry of Education. Applicant’s father
was  a   lieutenant   general  in  the   Iraqi   military.  He   was   killed   in   combat  in   1984.
Applicant’s   mother  owns  real  property  in  Iraq   that  she   uses   as  rental  property.   This
property is valued  at  about  $100,000.  His mother, brother, and  brother’s family  live  in a
home   on   real  property  in  Iraq   that  is  still   titled   in  his  father’s  name.  This  property  is
valued   at  about  $600,000.  Applicant  shares   an   inheritance   right  among   his  other
siblings  in   the   parcel   of  land   valued  at  $600,000   (SOR   ¶   1.e).   He   also  holds a   similar
inheritance  right in  the  parcel of  land  owned  by his mother.  In  about May 2022,  he told
an  Army  investigator that he  did not want to  renounce  his Iraqi citizenship because  he
wanted   to   protect his potential ownership   rights  in the   real property   in  Iraq   titled   in  his
father’s  name   (SOR   ¶   2.a).   However,   he   testified   at  hearing   if   he   was   forced   to
renounce one of his citizenships,  he  would  renounce his Iraqi citizenship.  (Tr. 24-25, 38-
48, 50-61, 63-71; Answer; GE  1-3)
For  years,  Applicant’s  mother  received  a  pension  from  the  Iraqi government  on
behalf  of  his  father  after  he  passed  away.  She  now  receives  the  equivalent  of  social
security  income  from  the  Iraqi  government.  Applicant  provided  his  mother  and  sister
about $300 to $400 in support a few times per year until about 2019. He testified that he
no longer sends money to his mother and sister because he cannot afford to do so. He
maintains  contact  with  his  mother  nearly  every  day  via  video  chat.  He  last  saw  her  in
person in Iraq in February 2022. (Tr. 43-48, 50-52; Answer; GE 1-3)
Applicant  has  contact  with  his  sister  four-to-five  times  per  week  via  video  chat.
She is a homemaker and has never worked outside the home. She is married to an Iraqi
citizen and has five children who are also citizens of Iraq. He last saw her in person in
Iraq in February 2022. (Tr. 52-55; Answer; GE 1-3)
Applicant has contact with his brother two-to-three times per week via e-mail and
electronic chat rooms. His brother is a teacher and is married to an Iraqi citizen. He has
children  who  are  Iraqi  citizens.  Applicant  last  saw  his  brother  in  person  in  Iraq  in
February 2022. (Tr. 55-58; Answer; GE 1-3)
Applicant has contact with his friend who is a teacher in Iraq a few times per year
over  electronic  social  media  platforms.  Applicant  last  saw  this  friend  in  person  in
February 2022. (Tr. 58-61; Answer; GE 1-3)
Applicant  has  never  been   a   member   of   the   Iraqi   military  or   worked   for   the   Iraqi
government.   Prior  to   his  arrival  in  the   U.S.,   Applicant   worked   for  a   non-governmental
organization  (NGO) in  Iraq. Since  arriving  in  the  U.S. in  2013, he  has worked  in the  U.S
as a  delivery  driver,  a  driver for  a  U.S.  based  corporation  providing  ride-hailing  services,
and  as  a   technician   for  a   contractor of an   internet   company.   He  currently   earns about
$4,000   per  month.   He   has  about  $4,000   in   a   U.S.   based   bank   account  and   about
$2,000  invested  in U.S. based  stocks.  He owns a  car in the  U.S.  (Tr. 30-38, 47-48,  52-
64; GE 1, 3)
Applicant   has  friends  who   reside   in  the   U.S.,   but   none   of   his  family  members
reside  here. None  of  his family members hold  U.S.  citizenship  or U.S. residency  rights,
and none  of  them  have  visited  the  U.S.  Applicant owns no  real property in the  U.S.  He
claimed  his family does not  know  that he  is trying  to  obtain security  clearance  eligibility,
or  that  he   may   be   working   in  Iraq.   He  claimed   he   will   not  tell   them   if   he   does  obtain
security clearance  eligibility.  He  expressed  his  loyalty to  the  United  States. He testified
that  his  family  in  Afghanistan   could  not  be   used   to   coerce   or   intimidate   him   into
revealing  classified  information,  and  that  he  would report any  attempt  to  do  so.  (Tr. 30-
38,  47-48,  52-64; GE  1-3)
Since he arrived in the U.S. in 2013, Applicant visited Iraq in 2017 and 2021 to
2022.  He  stayed  in  Iraq  for  about  three  months  in  2017  and  for  about  14  months  in
2021.  He  stayed  in  the  house  titled  in  his  father’s  name  with  his  mother  and  brother
when he visited. He had in-person contact with  his family members and friends during
these visits. (Tr. 50-61; GE 1-3)
In HE 1, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as of March 2023, about the United States' relations with Iraq and the current conditions
in  that  country.  I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  information  included  in  those
documents including, but not limited to:
The U.S. Department of State has assessed Iraq as being a high threat, “Level 4:
Do  not  travel”  location  due  to  terrorism,  kidnapping,  armed  conflict,  civil  unrest,  and
limited ability to assist U.S. citizens in country. U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk for
violence  and  kidnapping.  Terrorist  and  insurgent  groups  regularly  attack  both  Iraqi
security  forces  and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and
Western companies throughout Iraq. Attacks using improvised explosive devices (IEDs)
occur in many areas of the country, including Baghdad. Demonstrations, protests, and
strikes  occur  frequently.  These  events  can  develop  quickly  without  prior  notification,
often  interrupting  traffic,  transportation,  and  other  services;  such  events  have  the
potential to turn violent.
The   country   experienced   large-scale  protests  in  Baghdad   and   several  Shia-
majority  provinces  beginning   in  2019   and   lasting   through   2022,  with   reports  of  more
than 500 civilians killed and 20,000 or more injured. Another, similar incident in August
2022 resulted in more than 20 deaths. The government took minimal steps to bring to
justice those responsible for the violence.
Terrorist groups  and  those  inspired  by such  organizations are  intent  on  attacking
U.S.  citizens abroad.  Primary  terrorist  threats  within   Iraq   included  Islamic State   in Iraq
and   Syria   (ISIS)  and   Iran-aligned   militia  groups.  ISIS   is  a   designated   terrorist
organization,  which  is active  in  Syria  and  near the  Iraq  border.   ISIS  and  its  associated
terrorist  groups  indiscriminately   commit   attacks  and   violent   atrocities  in   Iraq   despite
improved  Iraqi government control. ISIS, militia groups, and  criminal gangs target  U.S.
citizens for attacks and hostage-taking.
There  have  been  significant  human  rights  issues  in  Iraq,  including:  credible
reports of unlawful or arbitrary  killings;  extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances
by  the  government;  torture  and  cruel,  inhumane,  and  degrading  treatment  by  the
government; and arbitrary arrest and detention.
