Applicant  admitted  she  used  marijuana  on  one  occasion  in  about  the  spring  of
2020, SOR ¶ 1.a, and she denied both allegations of falsification of her 2022 SCA, SOR
¶¶  2.a  and  2.b,  in  her Answer  to  the  SOR.  After a  thorough  and  careful  review of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  32  years  old.  She  has  been  married  to  her  husband  since  June
2017.  She  does  not  have  any  children.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer
science  in  December  2013.  In  August  2016,  she  received  a  certificate  in  information
accessibility  and  design  policy.  She  was  previously  employed  by  a  government
contractor from June 2017 to February 2021 as a web developer. She has possessed a
secret  security  clearance  since  2018.  In  February  2021,  she  was  hired  by  her  current
employer,  also  a  government  contractor,  that  sold  the  contract  to  another  federal
contractor  in  September  2022.  She  discovered  that  she  needed  a  top  secret  security
clearance for her current position as software engineer, and she completed an SCA on
July 29, 2022. (Tr. 14-17, 31; GE 1, GE 2)
Drug Involvement and Falsification
In her July 2022 SCA, Applicant stated that she  inadvertently  failed  to disclose,
as required, that she had used marijuana on one occasion in about the spring of 2020,
which  was  during  the  time  she  possessed  a  secret  DOD  security  clearance.  She
testified at the hearing that when she completed the SCA online in July 2022, it took her
about  a  week  to  update  all  of  the  detailed  information.  After  it  was  completed,  she
submitted  the  SCA  and  then  she  printed  it  out.  Although  she  had  admitted  she  had
thoroughly  reviewed  the  form  online  for  accuracy  and  completeness,  it  was  not  until
after  she  had  printed  out  the  SCA  that  she  realized  that  she  had  gotten  an  address
wrong, and she had incorrectly answered two of the illegal drug questions. She did not
disclose  her  one-time  use  of  marijuana  in  2020  while  possessing  a  DOD  security
clearance  because  it  had  completely  slipped  her  mind.  (Tr.  15-20,  28;  GE  1,  GE  2)
When  her  attorney  asked  her  how  her  one-time  use  of  marijuana  could  have  been
momentarily forgotten, Applicant stated:
Well,  it’s  like  if  -- if  anyone  asks  me,  I’m  not  in  -- I’m  not  in  the  kind  of
social circles to -- around people that do that kind of thing all the time. So
if  anyone  asked  if  I  smoke  or  whatever,  no,  I  don’t.  That’s  not  for  me.
That’s  not   something   I  have   --  I   do   or  have   done.  I   mean,   I  have   to
reconcile   that   in  my  mind   of,   yes,   I   did  do   that  once,  and   that   was  a
mistake and  not something I plan to repeat.  (Tr. 20)
When   Applicant   realized   she   had   incorrectly   answered   the   drug   questions,   she
immediately  called   her  best  friend   and   asked   her   what   she   should  do   about  it.   After
some   discussion,  Applicant  decided   she   would  correct  her   mistake   when   she
participated  in  her background  subject  interview with  an  authorized  DOD investigator on
September 20, 2022.  Applicant started  off  the  interview by  providing  clarification  about
her  physical  location/updated   address.  She   did  not  disclose   her  omitted   drug
information  until the  investigator questioned  her about  illegal drug  use.  After the  enquiry
from the investigator,  Applicant admitted she had used  marijuana once during the spring
of 2020  when  she  shared  a  joint  with  her husband, and  she  took  “about two  puffs.”  She
stated   that  her  spouse   regularly  uses  marijuana,  and   he   had   applied   for  a   medical
marijuana  card. She  told the  investigator that he  uses marijuana  on  a  weekly basis, but
he  had   expressed   interest   in   stopping   marijuana   use   because   he   wanted   to   obtain  a
U.S. Coast Guard’s captain’s license. She  admitted  that she  had  also  drank a  couple of
alcoholic  drinks   at  the   time   she   tried   the   marijuana.  She   was  not  certain  if  she   held a
secret   security  clearance   at   the   time,  and   she   did   not   report  her  drug   use   to   her
employer because  she  was not aware  that she  was required  to  do  so.  She  clarified  to
the   investigator   that   she   had   overlooked   the   drug   questions   because   the   SCA  online
had  previously populated  the  answers from  her previous SCA,  and  she  had  only briefly
looked over the  2022  SCA before submitting it.  (Tr. 21-25;  GE 2)
During the hearing, Applicant admitted that her state of residence had legalized
the recreational use of marijuana in 2020. At the age of 29, she had taken one puff of
marijuana  in  approximately  the  spring  of  2020  with  her  spouse  and  regretted  her
decision immediately. She had never used marijuana, or any other illegal drug, before
or  after  that  incident.  She  also  denied  telling  the  investigator  during  her  background
interview that she was not certain she possessed a security clearance during the time
she had used marijuana. (Tr. 24-25, 32)
During   cross-examination,  Applicant  stated   that  when   she   applied   for  the  top
secret   security  clearance   by  submitting   the   July  2022   SCA,  she   discovered   from   her
employer  that  she   was  to   undergo   a   polygraph   examination.  She   was   fully  aware   that
marijuana   was  illegal  under  federal  law  and   incompatible  with   individuals  who
possessed   DOD  security  clearances.  Even   though   she   had   never  tried   marijuana
before,  she   was  asked   to   explain   why,  at  the   age   of  29   and   while   possessing   a   DOD
security  clearance,   she   decided   to   try  marijuana   for  the   first  time.  Applicant   admitted
that   it  was   a  “minor  lapse   in   judgment”   and   that  she   had   consumed   two   alcoholic
beverages   beforehand.   She   also   stated   that  even   though   she   spent   an   extensive
amount of time  completing  the  SCA, when  she  read  over the  drug  questions, her one-
time   use   of   marijuana   did   not  come   to   mind.  She   did  not   immediately  report  her
omissions   to   the   facility  security officer (FSO), because   at   the   time,  she   was not   even
aware  of  an  FSO. She  admitted  that  her program  supervisor had  emailed  her about  the
necessity   of   completing   a   new   SCA,  but  she   did  not  report  her  SCA  omissions   to   her
program  manager  either.  She  denied  that  she  was  aware  that  she  was  supposed  to
report any  illegal drug use  to  her employer while  possessing  a  security  clearance,  but
she readily admitted that she had received annual security briefings and was certain this
topic was discussed during those briefings. (Tr. 31-44)
I questioned  Applicant  about some  inconsistent statements  she  had  made  to  the
background  investigator and during  the hearing. She  had  told  the  investigator during her
September 2022 interview that she had overlooked the  drug  questions on the  2022  SCA
because  the  online  application  had  automatically populated  previous  answers  she  had
reported   on  an  earlier SCA  she   had   submitted. She   had   also   told  the   investigator that
she  had  only briefly  reviewed  the  July 2022  SCA before she  submitted  it.  Her testimony
was  that  she   had   taken   a   week   to   prepare   her  2022   SCA   and   she   had   specifically
answered   the   drug   questions   with   a   negative   response   because   she   did  not   recall,  at
that  time,   that  she   had   used   marijuana   in  2020   or  while  possessing   a   security
clearance.   Applicant  admitted   she   had   told  the   investigator  that   information   but  also
acknowledged  that  the  drug  questions on  her  2022  SCA did not automatically populate
–  she  had to  specifically answer  the illegal drug  questions.  (Tr. 42-47)
Applicant testified that her husband did not get a medical marijuana card, but he
had  obtained  marijuana  for  recreational  use  legally  in  2020.  She  said  he  had  used
marijuana  on  a  weekly  basis  until  “a  couple  of  months  ago”  because  he  recently
decided  to  apply  for  a  captain’s  license.  After  Applicant  admitted  that  her  husband
stopped  his  regular  use  of  marijuana  in  June  or  July  2023,  Department  Counsel
questioned her why she failed to indicate her husband’s regular use of marijuana on the
February  2023  interrogatory  question  – “8. Do  you  associate  with  individuals  who  use
marijuana, any product containing THC, or any illegal drug(s)?” Applicant had answered
this question “No.”  Applicant then testified that she was not certain of the dates of her
husband’s  marijuana  use,  but  that  in  September  2022,  at  the  time  of  her  background
interview,  he  was  using  marijuana  weekly,  by  February  2023,  the  time  she  completed
the  interrogatories,  he  had  quit,  and  then  sometime  afterwards  he  resumed  using
marijuana until June or July 2023, when he quit again. She said the longest time he has
refrained from using marijuana was six months. Applicant provided a signed statement
of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  illegal  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  when  she
submitted her interrogatory response in February 2023. (Tr. 47-59; GE 2)
Applicant stated that she had told her best friend that she had used marijuana on
one occasion in 2020. Her best friend testified that she met Applicant on a camping trip
in  September  2021.  Since  that  time,  they  have  become  best  friends  and  talk  to  each
other every day. She recalled Applicant had called her in a panic when she received the
email  that  she  was  to  have  a  background  interview  with  an  investigator,  and  after
reviewing  the  July 2022  SCA,  she  realized  that  she  had  not  listed  her one-time  illegal
drug  use  on  the  application  because  she  had  thought  it  had  occurred  outside  the
question’s  scope  of  time.  The  witness  was  interviewed  during  Applicant’s  security
clearance  investigation  and  had  reported  to  the  investigator  that  Applicant  had  used
marijuana  once  in  college.  During  the  hearing,  the  witness  said  she  speculated  that
Applicant’s use of marijuana had occurred during her college years. (Tr. 25, 61-72, 77-
80)
