Applicant  admitted  both  SOR  allegations  in  his  Answer.  He  is  41  years  old,
married  in  2010,  divorced  in  2018,  and  remarried  in  2020.  He  has  three  children,  one
adult and two minors, and two stepchildren, both minors. He graduated from high school
in 2001. (Items 1-3)
Applicant has worked as an electrician for various employers since at least 2008.
He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  DOD  contractor,  since  June  2022.  He  has
never held a security clearance. (Item 3)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  had  two  delinquent  consumer  debts:  an  auto
loan account in collection  for $20,945  (SOR ¶  1.a) and a pre-paid credit card  charged
off for $75 (SOR ¶ 1.b). The allegations are established by Applicant’s admissions in his
Answer,  his  June  2022  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  his  August  2022
background interview, and credit bureau reports from July 2022 and May 2023. The July
2022 credit bureau report lists both SOR debts, and the May 2023 credit bureau report
lists only the charged-off credit card in SOR ¶ 1.b. (Items 1-6)
Applicant attributes his delinquent debts to his divorce. He obtained an auto loan
(SOR  ¶  1.a)  to  purchase  his  then-spouse  a  car  during  their  marriage.  Her  poor  credit
prevented  her  from  obtaining  an  auto  loan  solely  in  her  name  or  co-signing  the  auto
loan  with  him.  When  they  separated  approximately  one  year  later,  he  allowed  her  to
keep  the  car  with  the  understanding  that  she  was  going  to  make  the  monthly  car
payments. Unbeknownst to him, the car was repossessed when she failed to do so. He
has not made any efforts to resolve this debt as he does not have the financial means to
do so. He does not intend to obtain any auto loans in the future unless he needs to buy
his own vehicle. (Items 2-4)
Applicant  obtained  a  pre-paid  credit  card  (SOR  ¶1.b)  to  rebuild  his  credit.  He
deposited $200 onto the card, of which he used $75, and then he cancelled the service.
He was unaware that the card was charged off, and he did not understand why it was
charged off since he still had money remaining on the card. He stated in his Answer, “I
never  got  any  of  [my]  money  back  so  therefore  I  don’t  see  how  I  owe  them  anything,
doesn’t make any sense to pay them.” (Items 2-4)
Applicant  indicated  during  his  background  interview  that  he  monitors  his  credit
using  Credit  Karma,  and  he  lives  within  his  financial  means.  He  stated  in  his  Answer
that he is the primary breadwinner, as his  spouse  does not work outside of the  home,
and  he  would  not  jeopardize  his  ability  to  care  for  his  family.  The  May  2023  credit
bureau report lists the following additional debt that is not alleged in the SOR: an auto
loan account for which Applicant is $2,109 past due, with January 2023 reflected as his
date  of  last  payment.  I  will  not  consider  this  unalleged  debt  in  evaluating  the
disqualifying conditions under this guideline; however, I will consider this information in
my  mitigation  and  whole-person  analysis.  There  is  no  information  in  the  record  about
whether Applicant has received credit counseling. (Items 2, 5)
