Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. Her admissions are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is  26  years old.  She  is  not married  but  cohabitates  with  her  boyfriend.
She  has  no  children. She  earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in  2019  and  a  master’s degree  in
2020. She  works for a  defense  contractor and  completed  a  security clearance  application
(SCA) in July 2022.
Applicant disclosed in her SCA that she started using marijuana when she was a
freshman in high school in about June 2013. She stated:
Started  experimenting  with  THC my freshman  year of high  school. Everyone
in  my  friend   group   smoked   THC  regularly   at  the   time.  In   college[,]  my
boyfriend  at the  time  smoked  THC everyday due  to  his chronic anxiety. I
dated him for four years and would join him at night before bed 4-5 times  a
week.
Since I started  using THC at 15 years old, I am  unable to know the  number
of times I used  THC. The  nature of use  was casual usually in a  friend  setting
at  night  or  on   the   weekends.  When   I  graduated   college   at  [X]   State
University my friend  group  drastically changed  since  I moved  to  [State  A],
and   I  did  not   use   THC  for  at  about  1   year  and   3   months.   (sic)  A   couple
weeks ago  I  had  visited  an  old  friend  who  still  used  THC  and  I smoked  once
with  her estimated  date  was 7/21/2022. This  was late  at night  and  at her
apartment complex.
I do  not  intend  to  use  THC  in the  future  because  I  believe  it to  be  a  bad  habit
of my past that is a part of my rebellious teenage years that has lingered in
my  life   far  too   long.   THC  is  not   important  to   me   and   my  memories
surrounding   it  are  a   mix  of  very  bad   and   very  good   experiences   neither
outweighing  the other. (Item  2)
Applicant  disclosed  that  she  purchased  THC  from  roommates  and  friends  that
she associated with in high school and lived with in college. She said she did not need
to purchase it often because her friends, boyfriend, or roommates always had it around.
However, when she did purchase it, it was never more than 1-3.5 grams. Occasionally,
her friends would not have THC and she would purchase it because it was “her turn” to
provide it. THC was illegal in the state where she attended high school and college and
continued to be so during her period of use and purchase. (Item 2)
Applicant further disclosed in her SCA other illegal drugs she used. She stated: “I
have  experimented  with  mushrooms  exactly  four  times.”  (Item  2)  She  noted  the  dates
were from October 2019 to March 2022. She explained the nature of her use as follows:
I have  experimented  with  mushroom  exactly four times. The  first time  was
with   my  roommate   in   college.   We   had   nothing   to   do   one   night,   and   she
asked   me   if  I   wanted   to   try  them.  I  got  sick,   threw  them   up   and   nothing
happened. The  second  was at my friend’s birthday party on  July 4th, 2021.
There was a  small  group  of six[,]  four of us, four of which  tried  mushrooms
while we kayaked  down  a  river in [State  C].  The  third  time  was with  a  friend
in graduate  school at [University]. He had  been  wanting  to  try them  for a
while  and   I  had   told  him   about  my  experience.  We   tried   them   at  my
apartment then  took a  short walk  at  a  trail  near my apartment  complex. The
fourth  was with  the  same  friend  2  weeks later.  We  still  had  some  from  the
last  time  and  used  them  at my apartment.  We  did  not  go  anywhere this time.
(Item  2)
Regarding  whether  Applicant  intended  to  use  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  in  the
future she stated:
Mushrooms make me want to throw up  every  time  I have  used  them. Also,
they feel no  different from  having  a  beer or two in my experience. There is
no real point in using  them in  my opinion. (Item 2)
Applicant disclosed  that when  she  used  mushrooms in March 2022  that she  and  a
friend  purchased  them  to  share. She  said: “I have  only purchased  mushrooms once[,]  any
other time  I have  tried  them  they were  given  to  me.” (Item  2) She  further stated: “My friend
had  never tried  them  before  and  asked  me  if  I would  be  able  to  get  them  for us.  I knew
someone who sold them, so we split the cost.” (Item  2)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in October 2022. She told
the  investigator  that  when  she  initially  tried marijuana  as  a  freshman  in  high  school  in
June 2013 that she did not start using it regularly until 2015. She would smoke marijuana
about once a month in backyards of friends’ houses from 2015 to 2016. From 2016 to
2020, she vaped or ate edibles almost daily at friends’ houses. From 2020 until July 2022,
she  would  consume  marijuana  through  vape  or  edibles  twice  a  year  on  average.  She
purchased her drugs on occasion and it was freely provided at other times. She believed
her drug use was immature, and she used it for social reasons. She told the investigator
that she no longer socializes with anyone who uses drug illegally. She disclosed friends
with  whom  she  used  drugs.  She  said  she  stopped  smoking  marijuana  in  July  2022
because she felt like she had outgrown that phase of her life. (Item 3)
Applicant told the investigator that her use of hallucinogenic mushrooms began in
October 2019, and they were provided to her. She said in July 2021, she was at a birthday
party for a friend and her friend’s boyfriend provided her with mushrooms. In March 2022,
she and her friend used mushrooms together and two weeks later used them again. She
purchased the mushrooms. She did not believe her actions of using mushrooms was due
to immaturity, but rather she used them for social reason. She listed her friends who are
aware of her drug use, including her current boyfriend, and she revealed that at least two
of the people she listed used drugs with her in the past. (Item 3)
Applicant did not provide a response to the FORM. It is unknown if her boyfriend,
with  whom  she  cohabitates,  uses  illegal  drugs.  It  is  unknown  whether  she  continued
abstaining from using marijuana since she completed her SCA in July 2022.
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  be  considered  when  making  a  credibility
determination, in the application of mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
