Applicant  admitted  the  drug-related  allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.  He
admitted the delinquent debts alleged at SOR  ¶¶ 2.a, 2.b, 2.d, 2.e, and 2.f. He denied
SOR  ¶  2.c.  He  did  not  answer  the  cross-allegation  at  SOR  ¶  3.a,  so  I  construe  his
answer  as  a  denial.  He  denied  the  allegation  of  deliberate  falsification  of  his  SCA  at
SOR  ¶  3.b.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After a  thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  26  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2016.  He  held
several jobs in retail and as a security officer until he enlisted in the Navy. He served on
active duty in the Navy from February 2021 until March 2022, when he was discharged
after  he  tested  positive  for  THC.  He  was  then  unemployed  until  June  2022  when  he
began  working  for  his  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  a  defense  contractor.
(Item  2)  Applicant  was  married  in  February  2021  and  divorced  in  June  2022.  He
remarried two months later, in August 2022. (Item 2)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  used  THC  “on  various  occasions  between  at
least  approximately  November  2021  and  February  2022.”  Applicant  admitted  the
allegation without further comment. (Item 1) This is based on his disclosure of THC use
during  that  timeframe  on  his  September  2022  SCA.  However,  he  denied  knowingly
consuming THC, asserting that he thought he was vaping nicotine. (Item 2 at 35)
Applicant  explained  in  his  background  interview  that  he  tested  positive  for  THC
following  a  routine  drug  test,  in  November  2021.  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  He  was  notified  of  the
positive test in February 2022. He went to “Chief’s Mast.” He was asked if he had ever
been  given  a  “blacklist”  of  “vape  shops”  he  was  ordered  not  to  frequent.  He  denied
being given  such  a  list.  He  was  given  the  list  during  the proceeding  and  recognized  a
vape  shop  he  had  visited.  He  said  he  purchased  and  ingested  a  substance  without
looking at the label. He  asserted that he did not  know he was ingesting THC.  He was
found guilty at Chief’s Mast and sent to Captain’s Mast, where he was also found guilty,
on  the  grounds  that  he  should  have  known  what  he  was  ingesting.  While  he  said  he
wanted  to  go  to  court  martial,  Applicant  chose  to  plead  guilty  and  accept  45  days  of
restricted  duty  as  non-judicial  punishment  and  a  general  discharge  under  honorable
conditions. (Item 2 at 34-36; Item 4 at 5-6)
Applicant adopted his background interview summary as accurate in a February
2023  interrogatory  response.  (Item  4)  In  answering  further  questions  about  his  drug
involvement,  he  denied  ever  using  or  purchasing  illegal  drugs,  such  as  marijuana.  He
acknowledged that “despite any state laws to the contrary, marijuana use remains illegal
under  Federal  law”  and  therefore  if  he  were  to  be  granted  a  clearance  or  public  trust
position,  any  future  use  of  marijuana  may  affect  his  eligibility.”  (Item  4)  He  disavowed
any future intent to use THC, marijuana, or “any other drugs illegally in the future.” (Item
4 at 13) He made a similar vow on his most recent SCA. (Item 2 at 35)
The  record  includes  several  credit  bureau  reports  (CBRs),  dated  November
2020,  September  2022,  and  March  2023.  (Items  5,  6,  and  7),  which  establish  the
delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR under Guideline F.
The six SOR debts total $10,803. Applicant provided no indication that any debts
have been, or are being, paid. The debts are detailed as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a ($396) is a debt placed for collection by an insurance company. SOR
¶ 1.b ($702) is a charged-off account with a bank. SOR ¶ 1.c ($1,194), which Applicant
denied, is a cell phone account that has been placed for collection. SOR ¶ 1.d ($5,395)
is  a  charged-off  account  with  a  bank.  SOR  ¶  1.e  ($1,995)  is  a  charged-off  credit  card
account. All of these accounts are listed as past due on CBRs in September 2022 and
March 2023. (Items 6, 7)
SOR  ¶  1.f  ($1,121)  is  a  credit  account  that  has  been  charged  off  by  a  jeweler.
(Item 6) On the March 2023 CBR, however, the account has a zero balance. (Item 7).
This account is resolved.
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts on his SCA. (Item 2 at 39-40) In
his background interview, he verified his negative answers to financial questions on his
SCA and was then confronted with evidence of his various delinquencies. (Item 4 at 6)
Once confronted, he agreed with the accounts. He did not recall some of them  but did
not dispute the listings on the credit report. He said he would look into the accounts and
obtain documentation. (Item 4 at 7)
Applicant asserted in his background interview that he did not disclose the debts
on  his  SCA  because  he  did  not  understand  the  questions.  In  answering  SOR  ¶  3.b,
which  alleges  that  he  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  the  debts  when  he  filled  out  his
SCA, he said, “I admit but I don’t remember answering this question as I gave my agent
all the account information that I had.” (SOR Response)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  Government’s  FORM,  so  no  more  recent
information about him is available.
