Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  His  admissions  are
incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 24 years old. He graduated from high school in 2017 and college in
2020. He is not married and has no children. He has worked for a federal contractor since
2020. (Tr. 106-107; GE 1)
Applicant was employed during the summers as an intern for different companies
while he was in college. Since he was a young boy, his dream was to work as an engineer
in  aerospace  and  be  on  the  cutting  edge  of  the  newest  technology.  He  was  focused
throughout high school to achieve that goal. He was valedictorian of his class and went
on to a prestigious college, where he graduated with a degree in aerospace engineering
Summa Cum Laude. He did not use drugs in high school and consumed alcohol on a
minimal basis. At college, he consumed alcohol in moderation and not to excess. (Tr. 83-
GE 3)
Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
January 2020. As part of the process, he participated in a drug test, testing negative. He
did not report any drug use in his SF 86. He completed the SF 86 so he could work as an
intern for a federal contractor. (Tr. 84; Answer to SOR, Tab C)
In Applicant’s SOR answer and his testimony, he stated that during his sophomore
year of college he lived with three men, two of whom used marijuana daily. He was offered
it daily and declined. He estimated he declined their offers more than 300 times. (GE 2;
Answer to SOR, Tab C)
Applicant’s sister was using marijuana  daily. During  his senior year of college  in
March or April 2020, he and his mother went to visit his sister in another state where she
was  living.  His  sister  begged  him  to  try  marijuana  and  told  him  there  were  no
consequences. In an effort to reconnect with his sister, he used marijuana out of curiosity.
It was legal in the state where he used it. He did not enjoy it. (Tr. 85-86; GE 3; Answer to
SOR, Tab C)
In 2020, Applicant’s parents were going through a divorce. Due to the pandemic,
they were still living together in the family home. Applicant was also living at home at the
time and was unable to escape the conflict because of the lockdown. He felt pressured
by each parent. They were in the process of selling the family home where he grew up
and had his childhood memories. He  was eager to move back to school and did so in
September 2020. He intended on graduating early and because it was difficult to rent a
house for less than 12 months, he decided to live in the basement of a friend’s house.
When  he  arrived  and  moved  in,  sight  unseen,  he  realized  he  made  a  mistake.  The
basement was not finished and had concrete dust raining down from the ceiling, which
would wake him as it covered his nose and mouth. He moved out a week later and moved
in  with  a  good  friend  who  lived  in  another  town  and  had  three  roommates.  These
roommates  used  marijuana  extensively.  About  two  weeks  later,  Applicant  and  his
roommates were in lockdown due to one of the roommates testing positive for Covid. Two
weeks  later  another  tested  positive,  another  week  and  a  different  roommate  tested
positive.  Applicant  stated  there  was  nothing  to  do  during  lockdown  except  eat,  sleep,
study, and hang out. He admitted during this time, he gave into the pressure and used
marijuana with varying frequency (12-16 times) for about 13-15 weeks. He again used it
one time in December 2020, as he prepared to move to a new state. It was legal in the
state where he used it. (Tr. 86-90; GE 3; Answer to SOR, Tab C)
After graduating college in December 2020, Applicant moved to a new state eager
to  start  his  career,  but  he  found  out  that  the  position  he  had  accepted  was  no  longer
available, and he was placed in a different position. He was not provided a workstation
and  was  required to  work remotely.  He  was not given many tasks and  was  bored. He
began  to  seriously  question  whether  he  made  the  correct  career  choice  and  if  those
avenues even existed for him any longer. While taking full responsibility for his conduct,
he stated that these circumstances contributed to his poor judgment when, in July 2021,
he used marijuana again with his sister, on her birthday. It was legal in the state where
he used it. (Tr. 90-91, 104; Answer to SOR, Tab C)
In  October  2021,  Applicant  contracted  Covid.  Due  to  the  company’s  vaccine
requirements, he had two weeks to get the vaccine. He attempted to get a medical waiver
due to recently having  Covid, but  it was denied.  He got the  vaccine  but  had a  serious
negative reaction because he got it too close to having the virus. This incident made him
question  his  future  with  the  company  and  contributed  to  his  stress  level.  He  also  had
totaled his vehicle while driving from where he worked to his home state, which left him
stranded.  He  explained  that  these  stressors  contributed  to  him  using  marijuana  in
December 2021, when he used his sister’s marijuana vape pen. (Tr. 104; Answer to SOR,
Tab C)
Applicant was granted a secret security clearance in 2020 while he was working
as an intern. In late 2021, he was read into a special access program (SAP). At the time
he used marijuana in December 2021, he did not officially work in the program, but he
testified that the SAP involved access to classified information. He began working in the
program in January 2022. (Tr. 90-91)
Applicant’s perspective  changed  once  he  began  to  work in a  program  where he
was able to use his skills and was given responsibilities. He was realizing his childhood
dreams. He also began to understand the seriousness of handling sensitive and classified
information.  Before  then,  he  was  a  young  college  kid  with  a  clearance,  without  a  true
understanding of its importance. He was now a member of a program with a sworn duty
to protect secrets.  He testified that once he started working in the  SAP, he had a real
appreciation for the seriousness and importance of holding a security clearance. This was
not something that was emphasized when he was initially granted a clearance. (Tr. 91-
94; Answer to the SOR, Tab C)
Applicant  has  a  new perspective  and  understanding  of  the  highs  and  lows  of  a
career  path.  He  believes  a  myriad  of  circumstances  negatively  influenced  him  which
contributed  to  him  using  poor  judgment.  He  never  had  a  desire  to  use  marijuana,  but
circumstances influenced him. He is now in a position where he has more control over
where he lives and who he associates with. He credibly testified that he is shocked that
he used marijuana without considering the consequences. He has participated in therapy
regarding  his parents’  divorce.  He  felt  like  he  was  the  glue  holding  his family  together
when they were all living together during the pandemic. Both parents were leaning on him
and relying on him, which was stressful. (Tr. 94-97, 104-105; Answer to the SOR, Tab C)
Applicant’s sister  stopped  using  marijuana  when she became pregnant and has
not resumed since giving birth. He testified that she has abstained from drugs, alcohol,
and nicotine for over two years. His current roommate is also an employee with the same
federal  contractor  and  holds  a  security  clearance.  His  roommate  does  not  use  illegal
drugs and has not witnessed Applicant using any. Applicant started an initiative to cease
consumption  of  alcohol  for an  extended  period  and  did  so  for eight  months.  It  was  an
exercise in discipline. He did not overindulge before but wanted to challenge himself. He
sought drug counseling to evaluate whether he had any drug or alcohol-related issues.
None were detected and he was advised that no further treatment was recommended.
Most of his friends work for federal contractors and do not use illegal drugs. His few close
friends  from  high  school  do  not  use  illegal  drugs.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  never
intends to use illegal drugs again. (Tr. 97-98, 100-101, 108-112; Answer to SOR, Tabs D
and E)
In January 2022, Applicant completed another SF 86. In it he disclosed his prior
marijuana use. After submission of the SF 86, on his own volition, he took a drug test to
demonstrate  his  level  of  commitment  to  remain  drug-free.  The  test  was  negative.
Applicant  was  unaware  that  he  was  required  to  report his drug  use.  Once  he  became
aware, he notified his security manager. (Tr. 85, 99; GE 1; Answer to SOR, Tab E)
Five witnesses testified on behalf of Applicant. They were his current roommate,
one whom he currently works for, and two with whom he has worked with, and a friend.
They have known him both professionally and personally. Essentially, they all provided
the  same  positive  comments,  noting  he  is  reliable,  trustworthy  and  exercises  good
judgment and provided examples. There is no evidence that he currently associates with
known drug users. They reported that he works well under pressure and manages stress
on  the  job  by  working  hard  to  find  a  solution  to  the  problem.  All,  except  one,  holds  a
security clearance. All recommended Applicant retain his. (Tr. 23-81, 99-101)
Applicant provided character letters, which stated he was a good citizen, patriot,
intelligent, mature, respectful, and trustworthy. He follows rules and regulations and is a
person of integrity. (Answer to SOR, Tab D)
Applicant provided a signed statement of intent not to use any illegal drugs in the
future and  any  violation  will constitute  grounds  for automatic  revocation of  his security
clearance. (Tr. 101-102; Answer to SOR, Tab E).
