Applicant is 55 years old. He has been married for 31 years and has an adult child.
He received his high school diploma in 1986 and a bachelor’s degree in 1993. In January
2022, he began working for his current  employer, a U.S. Government contractor, as a
scheduler.  Since  2006  he  has  also  worked  as  a  lecturer  at  the  university  where  he
received his bachelor’s degree. He is seeking national security eligibility for the first time
in connection with his employment. (Answer at 1-2; Tr. at 15-16; GE 1 at 10-11, 18-19,
22, 35.)
Paragraph 1 - Guideline D, Sexual Behavior
Paragraph 2 – Guideline E, Personal Conduct
Under Guideline D (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b) and cross-alleged under Guideline E (SOR
¶ 2.a), the Government alleged two incidents of inappropriate sexual conduct, both with
teenage female foreign exchange students. In SOR ¶ 1.a, the Government alleged that
Applicant is ineligible for clearance because of his past sexual behavior with regard to a
young  foreign-exchange  student.  The SOR also alleged that  in 2008  Applicant  had an
extramarital affair with an 18-year-old female whom he had previously hosted as a foreign
exchange student. (SOR ¶ 1.b). In his Answer, Applicant admitted both allegations with
explanations. (Answer at 1-2.)
SOR ¶ 1.a. The main allegations in this subparagraph are that in 2010 Applicant
inappropriately touched  a minor female and entered her bedroom in his house without
permission.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  hosted  the  17-year-old  foreign
exchange student (the Complainant) in his home and that she was removed after about
seven weeks due to her complaints about his behavior. He denied that he engaged in any
misconduct. He admitted that the Complainant asked to be moved to a new family and
was removed from his home by the foreign exchange coordinator. She made this request
due   to   complaints   about   Applicant   that  he   characterized   as   “unfounded.”  The
Complainant  made  her claims with the local police and  the  police investigated. Applicant
testified that he cooperated  with the  police, and the police took no action.  (Tr. at  17-18.)
The Complainant submitted her charges to the police the day she moved out of
Applicant’s house. The police prepared an extensive report (GE 3). The report states that
she felt “very uncomfortable around  [Applicant].” Her first complaint was that  Applicant
stared at her body in a sexual manner. She reported that on a trip to an amusement park
with Applicant, his son, and a friend of the son, Applicant made inappropriate comments
to her about her body. Also, she went on a water ride wearing a white jumpsuit and got
wet,  which  made  her  outfit  transparent  revealing  her  body  and  undergarments.  She
claimed Applicant tried to take a picture of her in that condition. She also complained that
while swimming at the amusement park, he would swim underwater and grab her legs
and stomach. (GE 3 at 1.)
The  police  report contains numerous other complaints about Applicant’s actions
directed  at  the  Complainant.  She  reported  that  he  often  would  enter  her  bedroom
unannounced. He would lie on her floor, or on occasion, he would lie down next to her on
her bed to talk. He also tickled her almost daily. She also claimed that he once grabbed
her buttocks. On one occasion, she walked out of her bathroom and observed Applicant
standing  naked  in  front  of  his  bedroom  door.  She  complained  that  Applicant  would
frequently tap her on the buttocks with his hand or foot. She commented to the police that
Applicant is very friendly, but she was scared that “he will take  it to the next level.” She
reported to the police that Applicant’s wife was “very distant” and did not interact with her
at all. She felt so uncomfortable with Applicant’s behavior that she called her parents, and
they arranged for her to be removed from Applicant’s home and relocated to another host.
She lived at Applicant’s home from August 10, 2010, to September 17, 2010. The SOR
incorrectly  alleged
in  2011.  The
Complainant’s  parents  refused  to  permit  their daughter to  participate  in  a  “pretext  call”
proposed by the police to try to have Applicant say something incriminating to confirm her
allegations. They advised the police that their daughter was happy with her new host, and
they did not want her to be further involved with Applicant out of concern it would upset
her more. The police report concludes that the case was referred to the District Attorney’s
office  for  their  review  for  possible  criminal  charges  against  Applicant  for  annoying  or
molesting a child. (GE 3 at 3-4, 6-7, 9-10, 12-13, 16.)
that  Applicant’s  sexual  misconduct  occurred
At the hearing, Applicant denied all of the most serious allegations made by the
Complainant. He admitted, however, he did grab her leg while swimming under water at
the amusement park, just as he did with his son and the son’s friend. He also admitted
that on one occasion he sat of the end of her bed and another time laid down on the floor
to  talk  with  her.  On  another  occasion,  he  claimed  that  while  he  was  in  her  room,  she
invited him to lie on top of the covers of her bed while they talked. On cross-examination,
he admitted that this occurred at least twice, but he said she was under the bed covers.
He  acknowledged  that  he  made  a  mistake  by  retrieving  a  towel  from  a  hallway  closet
while he was unclothed after a shower. He later learned that she saw him from the rear.
He thought he  was being  discreet  and  was careful to  avoid being  seen. He also admitted
that he  hugged  her as well others in his family and  one time when she was sick, he  gave
her medicine  and  kissed  her on  the  forehead.  He  also  wrestled  with  her standing  up  as
he   did  while  playing   with   his  son.   Applicant  testified   that  he   thought  he   had   a   good
relationship  with  her and  was  surprised  when  she made  her  complaints to the  police.  He
believes she  misinterpreted  certain events when  she  lived  in his home,  and  he  asserted
that  he  never  touched  her in  an  inappropriate  way. He  also  claimed  that  the  Complainant
was  removed   from   other  host  homes  due   to   causing   problems   during   her  nine-month
exchange  student status in the  United  States. He also falsely stated  that after he  spoke
to   the   police,   the   police  determined   that  the   Complaint’s  claims  had   no   merit  and
dismissed  the  matter. On  cross-examination,  he  acknowledged  that he  was never told by
the   police   that  the   Complainant’s  charges  had   no   merit.   He  also  noted   that  his  family
hosted   seven   exchange   students   over  seven   years,  two   of  which   were   females,   the
Complainant and  an  exchange  student  with  whom  he  had  an  extramarital  affair  in  2008
after  her  exchange  year had  ended  and  she  had  turned  18  years old.  (SOR ¶  1.b,  below)
(Tr. at 18, 20, 22-24, 30-34,  39-40.)
SOR ¶ 1.b. The Government alleged in this subparagraph that in 2008 Applicant
had  an  18-month  extramarital  affair  with  an  18-year-old  German  woman  (the  German
Student), who had been hosted by Applicant as a foreign exchange student in 2006-2007.
She  was  16  or  17  years  old  at  that  time.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  treated  this
student with similar physical behaviors of touching and hugging during her school year
living at Applicant’s home. Applicant admitted this allegation in the Answer but noted that
the affair occurred 15 years ago and was not criminal in nature, presumably because of
her  age  at  that  time.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  argued  that  the  affair  was  private,
consensual, and discreet. She was 18 years old, and he was 42. He acknowledged that
the  affair  was  wrong  and  asserted  he  has  not  done  anything  similar  since  then.  He
explained that they had remained in contact after her exchange student school year. In
2008 the German Student returned to visit Applicant, and she initiated an affair with him.
She only stayed in the United States for four weeks, but they continued the relationship
through electronic communications until 2010. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 26-28, 34-36; GE 2 at
7.)
Applicant testified that he ended the relationship with the German Student after six
months because he felt what he was doing was wrong. He claimed that he told his wife
some years later about it in the spirit of being honest with his wife. His disclosure of the
affair  occurred  sometime  after  the  Complainant’s  allegations  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  In  his
responses to DOHA’s interrogatories, Applicant noted that the disclosure of the affair to
his wife was in about 2014. He last communicated with the German Student in February
2021. She also sent him birthday greetings in July 2022 or 2023. (Tr. at 36-44; GE 2 at
7.)
Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant submitted two performance reviews and four character-reference letters.
The work evaluations state that Applicant is an invaluable member of his team and that
he  was  a  “Successful  Performer.”  His  character  references  praised  Applicant’s  strong
work ethic and friendly personality. They also remarked about his sound judgment. His
church minster commented that Applicant has a strong marriage and is a man of faith.
Two close friends wrote about Applicant’s integrity and sound values. (AE A through F.)
