Applicant is 52  years old   He  married  in June  1992  and  divorced  in  February  2018.
He has one  adult daughter  (28)  from  his marriage. He and  his cohabitant have  a  13-year-
old   daughter.  He   served   on   active   duty   in   the   U.S.   Navy   from   December   1990   until
December 2014,  when  he  retired  with  an  honorable  discharge. He  took courses  from  an
aviation  institute  from  January 2015  until June  2016.  At  the  time  of his June  2021  SCA,
he was enrolled  in a  college.  He was  unemployed  from  January 2015  to  October 2015,
after leaving   the   Navy.  During  that  time,   he  was  supported   by   his savings and   did   not
suffer   any   financial   difficulties.   Since   December   2016,   he   has  worked   for  a   defense
contractor. He had  security clearances  while  in the  Navy.  While  serving  in  June  2010, his
security clearance  was  favorably adjudicated  but with  a  caution  to  address his  delinquent
debts. (GE  1,  2,  and  7; Tr. 23-24.)
Under  Guideline   F,   the   SOR  alleged   13   delinquent   debts,  12   of  which   total
$29,444.   The   SOR  did   not  assign   a   value   to   the   thirteenth,  a   foreclosed   mortgage
account.  (SOR.)  The  SOR is supported  by the  credit reports. (GE 4  through  6.)  Applicant
admitted  those  allegations with  brief  explanations. More  specially, he  admitted  nine  SOR
debts, SOR ¶¶  1.a,  b,  d  –  g,  and  i  through  k, stating:  “Working  with  [XYZ]  Law  firm  and
[the   creditor]  to   rectify  the   situation.”   Those   nine   debts  total  $24,531.   (Answer.)   His
Answer stated  that he  “inherited  this [SOR] debt after divorce.” That  was clarified  during
his October 25, 2021  personal subject  interview (PSI), when  he  said: “During  the  divorce,
it was ruled  that  [he] was  financially  responsible  for all  debts.” Because  he  had given  his
then wife a power of attorney  for when  he was deployed  in the Navy, he was unaware of
most of the  delinquent  SOR debts.  He found  out about his debts, when  he  applied  for a
loan and  was told that his credit  score was  very low. He then  pulled his credit report and
looked into  his debts.  (GE 2; Tr.16-17.)
In about mid-June 2010 while on active duty in the Navy, Applicant had his security
clearance  favorably  adjudicated.  That  favorable  determination,  however,  came  with  a
warning that he needed to keep his finances in line. (Tr. 24-25.)
Applicant received the SOR in about June or July 2022, and when he answered
it, he was working with XYZ Law firm to address the SOR debts. He testified that he paid
the firm about $187 per month for about four months. AE A shows four payments to that
firm of $109.95 from April 2022 through July 2022. He wanted the firm to help him pay
. .
the creditors. He learned, however, that the firm’s purpose was not to pay his debts. The
firm was “not in the business of, actually, paying the debt” but instead “to . . . find ways
to, or loopholes to, circumvent to improve” his credit report. “That wasn’t my intention.”
He stopped using XYZ after July 2022. It did not resolve any of the SOR debts. (Tr. 25-
29.)
SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  f, and i  through k.
Applicant   stopped   working   with   XYZ  Law  firm   in  the   summer   of  2022   and
contacted  by phone  each  of  the  SOR  creditors.  He explained  that if he  lost  his clearance,
it would be  financially detrimental to  him. If  that happened, he  would be  released  by his
employer.  He could not guarantee  those  creditors anything. He made  the  same  phone
calls the  week of  the  hearing  after speaking  with  Department  Counsel. Only one  creditor,
discussed  below,  made  him  a settlement  offer. All  others wanted  lump  sum  payments,
(Tr. 23,  31-37.)  He  had  made  similar calls  in  2021  before  his November  2,  2021  follow-
up  PSI, but none  of those  creditors “would work  a  payment plan  with” him.  He  plans to
pay off  each  account  when  he  has  the  money to  pay the  account  in full. (GE  2.)  Those
accounts  are SOR ¶¶  1,a  through  f,  and  i  through  k. Those  SOR debts have  not been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g.
This is a charged-off account for $1,458. Days before the hearing, after speaking
with  Department  Counsel,  Applicant  telephoned  the  collection  agency  and  arranged  a
payment plan. He is to pay a fixed sum monthly beginning August 1, 2023, for 12 months.
After the hearing, Applicant submitted AE B, a schedule of 12 postdated, pre-authorized,
and automatically withdrawn payments of $121.52 from his bank to the creditor. That will
satisfy the full balance. (Tr. 32-33.) This SOR debt is being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.h.
This is a charged-off account for $1,218. Applicant had agreed with the creditor to
a payment plan, but it has not yet sent him a written plan, as promised. (Tr. 34.)
This SOR debt has not been resolved
SOR ¶ 1.l.
This is a medical account in collection for $62. Applicant testified that this account
had  been  resolved,  and  he  was  to  provide  supporting  documents  after  the  hearing.
(Tr.36.)  No  documents  were  provided  after  the  hearing.  This  SOR  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR ¶  1.m.
This  is  property  associated  with  Applicant’s  home  mortgage  account  that  was
foreclosed in 2019. The SOR did not assign a value to this allegation. Nor did the credit
. .
reports.  GE  4  reported  zero  past  due  and  a  zero  balance.  GE  5  and  6  reported  no
amounts past due, no balances, and that the collateral was sold. That is consistent with
his testimony  that the home  sold  for more  than  was owed  under the  loan.  (Tr.  37-39.)
This SOR account has been resolved.
Finances
Applicant testified about the current state of his finances per month. Applicant’s
monthly  income  (take-home  pay  $5,398  and  VA  90%  disability)  is  about  $8,700.  His
monthly basic expenses are about $4,775, leaving a net remainder of about $3,925.  (Tr.
41-43):
Applicant  has  zero  in his  savings  account  and  $25  in his  checking  account.  He
recently had to replace his air conditioner, which cost $9,300. He did not have that amount
in his savings account, so a friend lent him $1,700, to be paid back tomorrow. He gives
his net remainder to his cohabitant. “She is the mother of my child, she takes care of the
house. She pays all the bills.” (Tr. 44-45.) The smaller SOR debts range from $2,390 to
$62.
Applicant testified about the lump sum back payment of $14,034 he received from
the Veterans Affairs Administration when his disability was raised to 90%. He received
that in December 2021 and used it “to resolve a lot of debts.” His credit score went from
420 to 572, which he said was ‘still not that great.” He did not resolve the SOR debts. He
resolved “immediate debts, like payday cash loans.” (Tr. 46-47.)
Character Witness
Applicant called Ms. ABC as a character witness. She has known him for a little
over 23 years. They have worked together for the same defense contractor for the past
seven years, since 2016. She understands his background in security clearances within
the  military  and  within  their  current  employer.  She  has  been  his  boss  at  their  current
employer. She understands what he has told her about his financial situation. While was
he still in the service, his wife “decided to take out a couple of accounts . . .  in his name
and not mention anything.”  The witness knows that Applicant went to court a couple of
times  to  get  “[his wife]  to  own up  and  pay for some  of  the  stuff  she  was obligated  to.”
Applicant’s financial situation is getting better. The witness believes his credit score has
improved 12 points, then 20 points. He has been “making strides.” She does not think his
financial situation was caused by his negligence or on purpose. (Tr. 15-19.)
The witness was in the U.S. Navy for eight years She did three cruises and was
honorably  discharged  for  medical  reasons.  Applicant  was  one  of  her  superiors  in  the
Navy. He was her mentor, “a guide to the Navy” “The Navy decided they were going to
come up  with  this  .  .  . Diversity  Program  . . .  [Applicant]  was a  tall Black  guy  from  [a
southern  state]  and  a  short  White  girl  from  [a  northern  state].  How  could  it  get  more
diverse. We got north and south . . . male /female, and White and Black.” (Tr. 19-20.)
. .
The  witness  and  Applicant  had  lunch  together  and  found  out  they  had  a  lot  in
common. Since then, they have been there for each other’s important personal and family
issues.  They  now  golf  together,  play  pool  together,  and  “know  everything  about  each
other’s lives.” She knows his family very well, and he knows her family intricately. ”She
“couldn’t  imagine  him  not  being  in  [her]  life  as  much  as  he’s  been  there  for  [her]
personally.”  He “has the utmost integrity and honesty that you can get out of a person.”
(Tr. 19-20.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
¶2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶   E3.1.14,   the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel . . . .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F: Financial Considerations
