In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b,
1.d, 1.f, and 1.i. He denied the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.c, 1.g, and 1.h. He did not admit or
deny  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.e,  2,a,  and  2.b  as  amended.  His  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  59-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  married  in
February 1988, separated in January 2017, divorced in August 2017, and remarried in
August 2020. (GX 12 at 4; Tr. 87) He has two adult children. He received  a bachelor’s
degree in mechanical engineering in August 1994 and a master’s degree in engineering
management in May 2002. He has worked for defense contractors since April 2009.
Applicant enlisted in the Navy in November 1987, was an honor graduate of  his
initial  training  classes,  received  outstanding  performance  evaluations  and  numerous
commendations,  and  was  selected  for  the  enlisted  commissioning  program.  He
completed the Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps and was commissioned as an ensign.
His  fitness  reports  through  October  2006  were  uniformly  outstanding  and  included
recommendations for promotion to commander and assignment as an executive officer
afloat. (AX C(1) through AX C(80)). He received the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement
Medal three times, the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal three times, and
the Meritorious Service Medal upon retirement as a lieutenant commander in December
2007.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  on  cross-examination  that  in  2005,  he  was
accused  of  fraternization,  making  a  false  official  statement,  and  adultery,  and  that  he
accepted a captain’s mast for those offenses. He admitted that he was found guilty and
received a letter of reprimand and forfeiture of pay, and he was removed from the ship.
(Tr.  205-06)  The  record  contains  no  documentary  evidence  of  this  action,  his  fitness
reports  for  that  period  do  not  mention  it,  and  it  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  I  have
considered  it for the  limited  purpose  of rebutting  Applicant’s evidence  of a  stellar Navy
career.
Shortly after Applicant and first his wife separated, he began dating ML, who also
was separated from her spouse. Applicant and his wife had been friends of ML and her
husband for several years, and the two couples had shared many common interests (Tr.
178-79) According to Applicant, he and ML stopped dating because ML was concerned
about her three daughters. (Tr. 180)
Before Applicant and ML started dating, he had loaned her a laptop, he had loaned
her husband a pressure washer, and he had left a set of weights in their garage. Applicant
admitted that, after asking for the return of his property several times, he sent some “pretty
pointed” emails to ML and her husband, saying that he wanted his property returned. ML’s
husband  interpreted  his  emails  as  threats,  and  he  obtained  a  protective  order  against
Applicant in April 2018. (Tr. 180-81) The protective order is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f, but the
basis for the order is not alleged in the SOR.
Applicant met TR through an online dating service, and they began dating in May
2017.  Their  relationship  ended  in  March  2018.  After  they  broke  up,  two  laptops  were
stolen  from  TR’s home, and Applicant was accused of stealing them. In April 2017, he
was  arrested  and  charged  with  grand  larceny,  burglary,  vandalism,  and  violating  a
protective order. (GX 7) In April 2019, he was convicted of breaking and entering, a felony,
and petit larceny, a misdemeanor. A sentencing hearing was conducted in August 2019.
In September 2019, he was sentenced to four years in jail for the breaking and entering
and 12 months for the petit larceny offense, suspended for five years on the conditions of
good  behavior  and  no  contact  with  TR.  (GX  6)  He  is  still  on  probation.  His  arrest,
conviction, and sentence are alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g.
On  October  25,  2020,  Applicant  was  charged  with  sending  threatening  text
messages to TR. (GX 2) On October 28, 2020, he was charged with stalking TR, and he
was served with an emergency protective order. (GX 3) The record does not reflect the
disposition of the charges of sending threatening text messages and stalking. The stalking
charge and the protective order are alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a.
In  September 2017, Applicant was issued  a  summons for larceny from  a  military
exchange  store. He  was accused  of  taking  a  small  box of cologne,  removing  the  cologne
from  the  box,  and  placing  it  in the  pocket of the  athletic shorts that  he  was wearing.  (GX
9) His trial was delayed  several times because  the  security officer from  the  exchange  did
not  appear.  (Tr.  175-76)   In   June   2018,   he   pleaded   no   contest,   was  convicted   of  petit
larceny,  and  was sentenced to 10 days in jail, suspended, and one year of unsupervised
probation. (GX 11 at 7;  GX 12 at 7) In his answer to the SOR, he  admitted the allegation
but   asserted   that  his  conduct   was  unintentional  and   the   result  of   inattention   and
distraction. At  the  hearing, he  testified  that he  was carrying  bottles  of wine  while in the
store, when his cellphone  rang. He  placed the  wine  on  the  checkout counter and  put the
cologne   in  his  pocket.   He  paid  for  the   wine   but  forgot  to   pay  for  the   cologne.  He  was
leaving  the  store when  he  was confronted  by a  store security officer.  The  security officer
refused  to  allow him  to  pay for the  cologne  and  called  the  police. (Tr.  171-75) The  arrest,
conviction, and sentence are alleged  in SOR ¶  1.i.
In October 2017, ML reported to the police that Applicant had posted partially nude
photos  of  her  in  front  of  a  local  business.  (GX  8)  The  charge  was  based  on  ML’s
speculation that Applicant was the only person who had the photos. When Applicant was
interviewed by a security investigator in September 2021, he told the investigator that he
believed  his  ex-wife  posted  the  photos.  (GX  11  at  9)  At  the  hearing,  he  submitted  a
statement from a friend who believed that Applicant’s ex-wife and some friends posted
the  photos,  because  he  had  observed  them  posting  the  same  photos  on  the  portable
toilets at a wine festival. (AX D(7)) Applicant was charged with obscenity by disseminating
photos to harass. (GX 8) In his answer to the SOR, he denied being convicted. The arrest,
charge, and conviction are alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h, but there is no evidence of a conviction.
In April 2018, the Federal Bureau of Investigation received a report that Applicant
had impersonated a federal agent. (GX 10) The record contains no evidence of the source
of the complaint or its disposition. Applicant testified that he had no knowledge of such
an incident. (Tr. 176-77) The complaint is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e.
In  about  March or April 2018, Applicant began  dating  AK, an  acquaintance  of  TR.
AK   lost  a   diamond   earring   in  Applicant’s  home,   and   he   found   it  after  their   relationship
ended.  He  offered   to   return  the   earning   to   AK   if  she   would  reimburse  him   for  lodging
expenses that he  incurred  for her son  while  participating  in  an  athletic tournament.  Even
though  AK  ignored  the  request  for  reimbursement,  he  returned  the  earring. Several weeks
later, someone  slashed  the  tires in AK’s vehicle,  and  she  told police  that she  suspected
that  her  tires were  slashed  by  Applicant.  She  admitted  that  she  did  not see  who  slashed
her tires,  but she  believed, “based  upon  their  history,”  he  was involved  either directly or
by hiring  someone. In  August 2019,  Applicant  was charged  with  vandalism. There  is no
evidence  that he  was convicted. The  police  records reflect the  disposition  as “exceptional
clearance adult.”  (GX 5) The  vandalism  charge is alleged in SOR ¶  1.c.
The SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that In July 2018, a two-year protective order was issued
against  Applicant.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  in  the  record  reflecting  this
protective order.
In October 2020, TR reported to the police that Applicant had been sending her
threatening  text  messages  and  stalking  her,  and  an  emergency  protective  order  was
issued against Applicant. (GX 2; GX 3) The threatening messages, a stalking charge, and
the protective order are alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a.
An  attorney  who  represented  Applicant  in  several  matters  alleged  in  the  SOR
testified that in his jurisdiction, a protective order is granted in an ex parte proceeding in
which the respondent does not have a right to be present. He also testified that the judges
in the jurisdiction where Applicant then resided routinely granted requests for protective
orders on scant evidence, on the theory that they do not harm the respondent and they
“would rather be safe than sorry.” (AX A(1); Tr. 119-22)
Applicant’s employment  record from February 2010  to March 2023, was replete
with commendations, pay raises, and accolades. (AX B(1) through B(22) Nevertheless,
he was laid off without prior notice on March 1, 2023, when his company was acquired
by a private equity firm and the merger of the two organizations resulted in eliminating his
job. (AX E) He was hired by another defense contractor on the following day. (AX E(8))
According  to  an  incident  report  submitted  by  Applicant’s  employer’s  security
officer, dated March 13, 2023, Applicant subsequently called a business  partner of the
company  and  threatened  the  senior  executives  and  the  company.  This  incident  was
alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a, but it was later amended to allege that he called a business partner
of the company, using profanity and derogatory language, and said he intended to create
problems for the senior executives and the company. (GX 13)
Applicant testified  that  he  called  a former colleague  and  asked  about  his abrupt
termination.  The  former colleague  was  the  recipient of the  phone  call  alleged  in SOR ¶
2.a.  He knew that  Applicant  was  upset and  told  him  to  calm  down and  think  about how to
move  forward. (Tr. 168) His  former colleague  testified  that he talked  to Applicant as both
a  friend  and  a  colleague.  He explained  to  Applicant that the  company had  been  acquired
by  private   equity   firm   and   the   merger   of   the   two   organizations   resulted   in  eliminating
Applicant’s job.  He was aware  that  Applicant  received  no  advance  notice  that he  would
be  terminated. He  described  Applicant as flabbergasted  and  obviously  angry. He testified,
“There  was   no   threat,   it  was   just   an   upset  person,   as   anyone   would  be   upset  in   that
situation.”  He is  confident that Applicant was laid  off to  trim  management levels and  not
because of the conduct alleged in  the SOR. (Tr. 68)
The  former  colleague  who  received  the  phone  call  testified  that  he  has  held  a
security clearance for more than 25 years. Applicant was still on active duty, in 2008 or
2009, when they met. Their relationship started out as purely professional but then grew
into a social relationship. In his opinion, Applicant is very talented and well respected in
the entire maritime community.
The former colleague testified that he was familiar with the allegations in the SOR
and still believes that Applicant should hold a security clearance. (Tr. 44-54) He admitted
that he was surprised at some of the conduct alleged in the SOR. He testified that, if he
saw similar conduct while doing a background check, he would have to take a second
look  and  exercise  due  diligence.  (Tr.  62)  The  former  colleague  submitted  a  written
statement encapsulating the views he expressed at the hearing. (AX D(2))
Applicant also telephoned his program manager and asked him if he thought the
termination was handled properly. He testified that the program manager agreed that it
was not handled properly. (Tr. 169)
Another friend and former co-worker of Applicant, who holds a top secret clearance
and is a senior executive of a defense contractor, submitted a statement and testified at
the hearing. She has known Applicant for about four years as a friend and a business
colleague.  She  described  Applicant  as  an  honest,  thoughtful,  easy-going  person,  and
candid,  but  respectful and  considerate of  others. (AX  D(4))  She  was  unaware that  the
SOR alleged that Applicant had threatened any of the executives of his former employer.
Prior  to  reading  the  SOR,  she  was  unaware  of  any  of  the  conduct  alleged  in  it.  She
testified that the allegations gave her pause, but she believes that she knows Applicant
well  enough  to  believe  that  there  are  two  sides  to  a  story.  Aside  from  her  personal
opinions about Applicant, she believes that he enjoys a reputation for trustworthiness, as
evidenced by the fact that he was offered another job shortly after he was terminated. (Tr.
25-34) She admitted that she would have to “think hard” about hiring someone who was
convicted of a felony. (Tr. 39)
Another friend and professional colleague, who has known Applicant for ten years
and who has considerable experience in evaluating  applicants  for security  clearances,
considers Applicant to be trustworthy, reliable, and responsible. He reviewed the SOR
and opined that Applicant’s security clearance should be continued. (AX D(1))
Another  friend  of  Applicant  who  has  known  him  since  they  were  five  years  old
testified on his behalf and submitted a written statement supporting Applicant. This friend
is an Army veteran, a former foreign service officer, a former defense contractor, and now
owns his own business. He reviewed the SOR and believes that the alleged shoplifting
was  the  product  of  the  inattention  and  distraction.  He  would  not  hire  someone  with  a
record like the SOR without asking questions. He was hesitant to comment on the conduct
alleged  in  the  SOR  without  knowing  more  facts,  but  he  unequivocally  stated  that  he
believes Applicant is a trustworthy and reliable person. (Tr. 79-83; AX D(6))
Another friend, who has known Applicant for 20 years, is a licensed realtor and
executive  director of a non-profit organization,  states that Applicant  is one of the most
trustworthy and loyal people he knows. (AX D(7)
Another friend who worked with Applicant until 2019 regarded him as a talented,
resourceful, hardworking, and responsible engineer. The friend is now retired from federal
service and is a senior vice-president and program manager for a defense contractor. He
tried to recruit Applicant to work for his company but was unable because of the ongoing
issues with his security clearance. (AX D(8))
Applicant’s  son  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  and  holds  a  top-secret
clearance. He admires Applicant for his diligent and efficient work ethic. He regards him
as  a  selfless  and  generous  person.  Applicant  taught  him  to  be  respectful,  kind,  and
patient, and to “take a step back and reflect on situations instead of reacting irrationally
to difficult circumstances. (AX D(9))
Applicant met his current spouse in July 2019, and they married in August 2020.
His spouse has never held a security clearance. She testified that she was familiar with
all the conduct alleged  in the SOR, and  that  Applicant was  very open about what had
happened during his various relationships. She testified that she knew Applicant was not
guilty of slashing AK’s tires and sending threatening text messages to TR because they
were  together  when  those  incidents  allegedly  occurred.  (Tr.  93-94)  She  believes  that
Applicant is a loyal, hardworking, intelligent, generous, trustworthy person. (AX D(5))
Applicant and his current spouse were residing in a motorcoach resort  that was
recently struck by a hurricane. The officers of the motorcoach resort association and 61
residents signed a letter commending Applicant for his extraordinary participation in the
recovery and clean-up operation. (AE D(10))
