In Applicant’s answer, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d, with explanations. He denied
SOR  ¶¶  1.e-1.g.  His  admissions are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After a  thorough  and
careful review of the testimony, pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  33  years  old.  He  is  single,  never  married  and  has  one  minor  child,
who  lives  with  his  mother.  He  is  currently  employed  by  a  government  contractor,  for
whom  he  has  worked  since  November  2019.  He  is  a  network  engineer  who  has
numerous  information  technology  (IT)  certifications.  He  received  his  initial  IT  training
from the Army. He enlisted in the Army in 2013 and served until October 2019, when he
was  honorably  discharged.  He  is a  high  school  graduate  and  has taken  some  college
courses. (Tr. 19-20; GE 1-2)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant:  (a)  received  alcohol  treatment  in  2015,  from  the
Alcohol and Substance Abuse Program (ASAP); (b) received nonjudicial punishment for
being drunk on duty (Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Article 112) in February
2019;  (c) received  inpatient alcohol treatment  from a civilian hospital  from  February to
March  2019,  where  he  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder  (severe,  continued,
with  withdrawal,  uncomplicated)  and  upon  discharge,  was  advised  to  abstain  from
alcohol  and  attend  outpatient  treatment;  (d)  received  outpatient  alcohol  treatment
through the Army’s Substance Use Disorder Clinical Care (SUDCC) from March 2019 to
October 2019, where he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder (severe) and advised
to  remain  abstinent  from  alcohol  and  continue  attending  group  and  individual
counseling; (e) was treated in an emergency room in July 2019, after drinking two 750
ml. bottles of alcohol over the course of two days; (f) was discharged from the Army in
October  2019  for  failing  to  successfully  complete  the  SUDCC  program;  and  (g)
continues to consume alcohol against treatment advice and recommendations. (SOR ¶¶
1.a-1.g)
I will address each alleged alcohol incident below:
Alcohol Treatment through  ASAP  in 2015.
In December 2015, Applicant was in a physical confrontation with another soldier
who  Applicant  claims  was  drunk  at  the  time.  Applicant  admitted  consuming  alcohol
before the altercation, but claimed he was not intoxicated. The military police responded
and Applicant and the other soldier were taken to the station and wrote statements. His
command  became  involved  and  Applicant  claimed  that  in  order  to  avoid  discipline,  he
agreed  to  complete  ASAP,  which  was  a  one-year  course.  No  records  are  available
concerning  Applicant’s  participation  in  ASAP.  Applicant  testified  that  the  program
included  group  counseling  once  a  week,  individual  counseling,  regular  alcohol testing,
and  an  order  to  abstain  while  in  the  program.  He  claimed  he  was  not  aware  that  he
received a diagnosis regarding his alcohol use. He also stated that he felt like he was
just checking a box by participating in this program. (Tr. 24-29; SOR answer; GE 8, p. 3)
February  2019 Nonjudicial Punishment for Drunk on Duty (UCMJ Art. 112).
In February 2019, during a weekend before Applicant had duty, he drank enough
alcohol so that when he showed up for a Monday physical training session with his unit,
his first sergeant smelled alcohol on him. His first sergeant ordered Applicant to take a
breathalyzer  test,  which  showed  a  blood  alcohol  content  of  .08  ml.  Applicant  later
admitted to his treating doctor that he drank a gallon of rum, followed by another fifth of
a gallon of rum over the weekend before his Monday duty day. Based upon Applicant’s,
blood  alcohol content,  his  commander  punished  him  under Article  15  of  the  UCMJ  for
being  drunk  on  duty.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  was  sentenced  to  restriction  and  extra
duties for 45 days and a reduction in grade from E-5 to E-4. He received his punishment
in July 2019 and was discharged from the Army in October 2019. (Tr. 30-31, 32; SOR
answer; GE 2, p. 11, GE 4, p.1, GE 14)
Civilian  Inpatient Alcohol Treatment From February  2019 to March 2019.
As a result of Applicant’s showing up for duty while intoxicated, described above,
he  was  also  sent  to  Behavioral  Health  where  he  was  enrolled  in  the  Army’s  SUDCC
program. In this case, he was sent to a civilian inpatient alcohol treatment program. The
program  lasted  28  days.  He  was  admitted  on  February  27,  2019.  He  underwent  an
intake assessment the following day. This is when he told the treating  physician about
the  amount  of  alcohol  he  consumed  the  prior  weekend.  The  initial  diagnosis  given
during  his  intake  assessment  was:  alcohol  use  disorder,  severe,  continuous,  with
withdrawal, uncomplicated. (Tr. 32; SOR answer; GE 4)
Applicant  completed  the  28-day  program  and  was  discharged  on  March  27,
2019. His discharge summary written by his treating physician noted:
Patient  participated   in   chemical   dependency   program   and   worked   on   his
12   steps.   Patient   completed   5   out  of  12   therapeutic   steps  and   a   relapse
prevention  plan  before discharge  from the hospital.
The summary further stated:
It  is worth  noting,  however, the  patient’s commitment  to  complete  sobriety
is  very  questionable.   Patient  told   [treating   physician]  that   he   is  not  sure
whether  he   would  stay  compliant  with   treatment   recommendations,
although  in the  short-term  he  does not want to  drink. . . He,  however, also
stated   that  this  is  just   a   blip   that   he   does  not  see   himself   sober  in  the
future. He thinks he would resume  drinking  at some point. (GE 5)
Applicant attended all his group sessions and did all his required homework. He
declined  an  offer  to  have  any  medications  prescribed  for  alcohol  management.  His
discharge  diagnosis  was:  alcohol  use  disorder,  severe,  continuous,  with  withdrawal,
uncomplicated. (GE 5)
Outpatient   Alcohol  Treatment  From  March   2019   to   October   2019   Through   the
Army’s SUDCC program.
Applicant was placed in the Army’s SUDCC outpatient program upon completion
of  his  inpatient  program.  He  began  this  program  in  March  or  April  2019.  Applicant
described the program as him attending  group counseling sessions two times a week,
alcohol testing once a week, and individual counseling once a month. He was required
to  abstain  from  alcohol  in  order  to  successfully  complete  the  program.  His  counselor
was  a  licensed  mental  health  counselor  (LMHC).  According  to  Applicant’s  treatment
records he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, severe. The records also indicated
that  Applicant  admitted  using  alcohol  on  several  occasions  while  in  the  program.  He
used alcohol on  April 26,  2019.  He  admitted this use  in a  group  session.  He admitted
using  alcohol  again  on  June  8,  2019,  during  a  group  session.  In  approximately  July
2019,  Applicant  reported  to  his  dietician  that  he  was  consuming  a  pint  of  liquor  every
workday  and  even  more  on  the  weekends.  Records  also  show  that  he  reported
consuming alcohol in June and July 2019. (Tr. 35-37;GE 6-9, 12-13)
Medical  Treatment in   July   2019   in   a   Hospital  Emergency   Room   After  Drinking   at
Least Two 750  ml. bottles of alcohol over two days;  and
Discharge from the Army for Alcohol Rehabilitation Failure  in October 2019.
On    September  24,  2019,   Applicant’s  father   passed   away   due   to   complications
from  alcohol abuse. In  his SOR answer,  he  stated  that  the  day following  the  news about
his father,  he  had   less   than  one  drink   while  alone   in his barracks  room  on   an   off-duty
weekend.  In  his hearing  testimony, he  stated  he  bought  a  pint of  rum and  drank  about
half  of  it before  his first sergeant  showed  up   at  his room.  His  first   sergeant  suspected
that he  had  been  drinking  alcohol  and  took  him  to  the  hospital to  have  his blood  drawn.
Applicant  acknowledged   that  event,  but  denied   being   intoxicated   and  to   the   contrary
averred   that  his  first  sergeant  was   intoxicated.  There   is  no   information   in   the   record
concerning   the   result  of  this  blood   test   or  the   amount  of  alcohol  consumed.  Applicant
was discharged  from  the  Army  less  than  a  month  later.  The  basis  for  his discharge,  as
noted   on   his  discharge   certificate   (DD-214)   was  Army  Regulation   (AR)   635-200,
Chapter 9,  which  is titled  “Alcohol or Other Drug  Rehabilitation  Failure.”  (Tr. 37-39,  41-
42; SOR Answer, See  AE B; GE  2, pp. 6-7)
Applicant   Continues   to   Consume   Alcohol  Against  Treatment   Advice   and
Recommendations.
During Applicant’s background interview with an investigator, in November 2020,
he  stated  he  no  longer  drinks  alcohol.  In  his  answers  to  DOHA  interrogatories  in  July
2021, he stated he drinks two beers weekly, with his last consumption being on July 16,
2021. He further stated he did not intend to continue that rate of consumption. He  also
indicated that he becomes intoxicated when drinking three beers. The last time he was
intoxicated was December 2019.  He also answered that he never  consumed alcoholic
beverages before going to work, failing to list the  February 2019 incident when he was
charged with being drunk on duty and which led to his inpatient alcohol treatment. (GE
2, p. 7; GE 3, pp. 3-4)
Before  Applicant  was  disqualified
it  was
recommended  that  he  continue  group  counseling  and  forego  use  of  any  alcohol
(substance).  His  discharge  treatment  plan  included  as  an  objective,  “abstain  from
alcohol.” (GE 8, p. 5; GE 11, p.5; GE 12, p.5)
the  SUDCC  program,
from
Applicant currently drinks alcohol on his nonwork days and he also abstains from
alcohol  the  day  before  his  first  work  day  of  the  week.  He  drinks  approximately four  to
five vodka drinks per occasion. He claims to only drink at home, never out in public. He
claims  he  does  not  drink  to  intoxication,  but  the  last  time  he  was  intoxicated  was  in
December 2022, when he was at a friend’s house celebrating their birthdays, which fall
on the same day. He claims he had no alcohol incidents before the Army and none after
his discharge from the Army. He claims that alcohol is not important to his life. He has
not seen a counselor about his alcohol use since he left the Army in October 2019. He
has  not  attended  any  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings  since  leaving  the  Army.
Applicant  stated  that  alcohol  has  no  meaning  in  his  life,  but  he  also  stated  that  he
enjoys drinking alcohol  because it takes the edge off of things. He submitted a written
letter of intent to “continue my modification of alcohol consumption.” He also stated that
if he chooses to drink alcohol, he  will do it in a responsible manner. He owns his own
home where he is the sole occupant. (Tr. 45, 47-49, 69, 71, 73-74; SOR answer, See
AE D)
After  considering  all  of  Applicant’s  prior  statements  during  his  inpatient  and
outpatient treatment, as well as his statement to his background investigator, there are
significant inconsistency between those statements and his hearing testimony. Overall, I
did not find his testimony credible.
Character  and Possible Mitigation Evidence.
Applicant  presented  eight   character   letters  from   supervisors,  colleagues   and
friends.  They describe   Applicant as  responsible   and   someone   who   is dedicated,  hard-
working,   trustworthy,   and   who   has high   character.  Several   recommend   continuation  of
his  security  clearance.  Applicant  also   presented   a   professional   certification,  his  2021
civilian  performance  appraisal with  an  overall rating  of  “regularly exceeds  expectations,”
and  his  2018  Army  fitness  evaluation,  indicating  his  overall  “qualified”  rating.  (SOR
answer, See AE A, E-F)
