Applicant admitted  the Guideline H allegations, with explanations, in his answer
and denied the Guideline E allegations. His admissions are incorporated as findings of
fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  is  being  sponsored  for  a  clearance  by  a  defense
contractor. He works in information technology. He has worked for defense contractors
since 2015 and has held a secret clearance since 2016. He holds an associate degree.
He  is  married,  has  two  children,  and  was  expecting  a  third  child  at  the  time  of  his
hearing. (Tr. at 6, 20-22; GE 1)
The SOR alleged Applicant used and purchased marijuana. It further alleged he
used  and  purchased  marijuana  from  November  2015  to  about  August  2016,  while
granted  access  to  classified  information.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.b)  It  also  alleged  he  falsified
information  in  response  to  two  questions  on  his  March  2022  security  clearance
application (SCA) when he failed to disclose his marijuana use, as alleged above. The
marijuana use allegations were also cross-alleged under Guideline E. (SOR ¶¶ 2a-2.c)
Applicant  testified   that   he   experimented   with   marijuana   while   in  high   school.  In
2015, he  was hired  by  a  defense  contractor located  in  another state  (State  A).  He and
his  family  moved   to   State   A  to   take   the   job.  At  the   time   of  his  move,  State   A   had
legalized   the   use   of  marijuana   and   the   purchase   of  marijuana   from   state-licensed
dispensaries. Sometime  in 2015, he  completed  an SCA  (this document was not put  into
evidence)  with   the   assistance   of  his  facility  security  officer  (FSO).   He   described   this
process  as  him   being   on   the   telephone   with   his  FSO,  answering   the   FSO’s  questions
from   the   SCA,  and   the   FSO   taking   those   answers   and  inputting   them   into   the   SCA
online   computer  program.  He  answered   “no”   to   the   questions  about  whether  he   used
any  illegal  substances.  He  did  this  because   he   believed   his  use   of   marijuana   in  2015
was not illegal because  it  was allowed  under  State  A’s law.  He  was unaware  that use,
possession,   and   purchasing   of  marijuana   was  in  violation   of  federal  law.  He  does  not
recall   receiving   any  information   from   his  employer  or  FSO  that   marijuana   use   was
prohibited   by   federal  law.   (Nothing   about  falsifying   his  2015   SCA   was  alleged   in   the
SOR,  so   I  will   not  use   that  information   for   disqualifying   purposes.  However,  I  may
consider  it for credibility, mitigation,  and  in  applying  the  whole-person  factors).  (Tr. 20-
23; SOR answer; AE A, p. 6)
Applicant  admitted   that  he   used,   purchased,  and   possessed   marijuana   in   the
form  of gummies  in approximately 2015  and  perhaps  into  2016. He used  the  marijuana-
gummies  between  50-100  times during  that timeframe.  He did it  to  relax.  It  also  helped
with  his migraine  headaches. In  approximately  August of 2016, he  attended  a   security
briefing   and   was  informed   that  use,  possession,  and   purchase   of   marijuana   violated
federal law. Armed with this knowledge, he approached his program manager and told
him  about  his  marijuana  use  and  his  mistaken  belief  about  the  law.  His  program
manager told him to stop using marijuana, but otherwise not to worry about it. Applicant
has  not  used,  purchased,  or  possessed  marijuana  since  told  to  stop  doing  so  in
approximately  August  2016.  While  he  worked  in  a  cleared  environment,  he  never
handled classified information during this time period.  (Tr. 23-25, 40; SOR answer; AE
A, p.6)
In March 2022, Applicant was selected by his employer to apply for a top secret
clearance. This required him to complete a new SCA, which he did on March 25, 2022.
During the process of completing his SCA, he contemplated the drug-related questions:
“In  the  last  seven  years,  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances? and “Have you ever illegally used . .  . a controlled substance  while
possessing a security  clearance . . . .”  He answered  “no”  to both questions.  Before
completing his answers, he testified that he sought guidance from his FSO about how to
answer the questions because he was not sure if his last marijuana use was within the
seven-year  timeframe.  Applicant  did  not  address  the  difference  in  the  nature  of  the
questions. The first asking if he used within the last seven years and the second asking
if he ever used. His FSO told him to “do his best”  in completing the SCA and address
any questions he had in the follow-up interview with an investigator. He also asked his
senior colleagues about how he should answer the questions and they agreed with the
FSO that he should address any questions or ambiguities during his follow-up interview.
Applicant denied that he intentionally provided false information on his SCA. (Tr. 25-27,
37; GE 1; AE A, p. 6)
In May 2022, Applicant was interviewed as part of his background investigation.
The written summary of this investigation appears at GE 2. Applicant disputed some of
the  characterizations  made  by  the  interviewer  and  noted  them  in  an  email  to
Department  Counsel  (AE  A,  pp.  3-4)  in  August  2023.  Applicant  admitted  using
marijuana in the last seven years to the investigator without first being confronted with
knowledge  of his  prior use.  He  further  explained  the  circumstances of  his use  and  his
ignorance  of  federal  law  prohibiting  use  of  marijuana  until  his  enlightenment  in
approximately August 2016. Appellant disagrees with the investigator’s characterization
that Applicant said he did not know why he did not list his marijuana use on his SCA. He
maintains  that  he  told  the  investigator  about  his  confusion  concerning  the  seven-year
window to report drug use and he was not sure whether his situation required reporting.
He decided to wait to ask clarifying questions when he spoke to the investigator, which
he did. Overall, I found Applicant’s testimony and explanations credible. (Tr. 26, 37-38;
GE 2; SOR answer; AE A, pp. 3-4)
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  a  friend  who  has  rented  a  room  from  him  for
approximately  10  years.  The  friend  stated  that  he  has  not  witnessed  Applicant  use
marijuana since 2016. Applicant also submitted a written statement of intent not to use
marijuana or THC products in the future, that such use could result in the revocation of
his clearance, and that marijuana use is illegal under federal law. Applicant’s wife does
not use marijuana or THC products. (Tr. 30; AE B-C)
