Applicant, 46, is an enterprise resource planning business analyst employed by a
federal contractor since  December 2009. She  received  her bachelor’s degree  in 1998.
She married in 2009 and divorced in 2022. She has two children who reside with her. This
is her first application for a security clearance. (GX 3; GX 4.)
The SOR alleges eight delinquent debts totaling $16,535. The debts are comprised
of  three  credit-card  debts  totaling  $5,306;  four  medical  debts  totaling  $3,295;  and  a
federal-tax debt in the amount of $7,934. The SOR also alleges that Applicant failed to
timely file  her 2019  federal-tax  return  and  that  it  remains  unfiled.  In  her  answer  to  the
SOR, Applicant admitted the credit-card debts and three of the medical debts, but denied
one medical debt in the amount of $100. She also denied the federal-tax debt, stating that
she was in a repayment plan. She admitted that she failed to timely file her 2019 federal-
tax  return.  The  delinquent  credit-card  and  medical  debts  are  reflected  in  Applicant’s
September 2022 and December 2021 credit-bureau reports (CBR). (GX 5; GX 6.) She
also listed her delinquent debts on her e-QIP and discussed them during her August 2022
personal subject interview (PSI). (GX 4.) Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my
findings of fact.
In  her response  to  the FORM,  dated  February 6,  2023, Applicant amended  her
responses to the allegations in the SOR. She admitted the $100 medical debt she had
previously  denied,  denied  the  federal-tax  debt  stating  that  she  had  satisfactorily
completed her repayment plan in December 2022, and denied that she had failed to file
her  2019  federal  tax  return,  stating  that  she  filed  it  in  February  2023.  She  provided
documentation in support of her denials. (Response.)
For  an  unspecified  period  of  time,  Applicant’s  husband  suffered  from  multiple
health-related issues that frequently rendered him unable to work. During the times he
was  out  of  work,  he  sometimes  would  receive  short-term-disability  payments,  but  not
always. The short-term-disability payments were significantly less than his regular pay.
Applicant and her husband were dependent on both their regular incomes to pay their
monthly obligations, and the decreased household income caused them financial strain.
Additionally, despite having health insurance, Applicant incurred unanticipated medical
debts  from  giving  birth  to  their  second  child  in  2017.  These  combined  factors  caused
Applicant and her husband to be unable to maintain three of their credit-card accounts
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c).  They  also  became  delinquent  on  their  unanticipated  medical  debts
(SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.g). However, they were able to maintain their monthly payments on their
mortgage loan, their vehicle loans, and multiple other credit cards. (GX 4; Response; GX
6; GX 5.)
Throughout their marriage, Applicant’s husband was responsible for filing their joint
federal-tax returns. Applicant was initially unaware that her husband did not do so for tax
year 2019. Ultimately, Applicant prepared the 2019 return herself and filed it on February
6, 2023. She did not owe any taxes. (GX 3; GX 4; Response.)
Applicant  timely  filed  her  2021  federal-tax  return  with  a  payment  of  $2,604.
However, she owed an additional $9,621. She received notice from the IRS sent on June
6, 2022, of the additional taxes owed and immediately contacted them. She entered a
short-term payment plan and submitted the first payment in July 2022. She made all the
required payments and satisfied her federal-tax debt for 2021 (SOR ¶ 1.h) in December
2022. (GX 4; Answer; Response.)
Applicant and her husband began their divorce proceedings in May 2021, at which
time all their marital assets were frozen. She had custody of their two children and was
primarily  financially  responsible  for  all  of  their  care.  She  did  not  have  the  financial
resources to resolve any of her delinquent accounts. The final divorce decree was not
entered until July 2022. (GX 3; GX 7.)
The final divorce decree delineates 10 marital debts for which Applicant was held
personally liable. Four of the debts assigned to Applicant in the divorce decree are SOR
debts.  One of the listed  debts is a medical debt owed  to a  creditor to whom Applicant
owes two debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e). She contacted the creditor and in September 2022,
Applicant  received  a  letter  from  the  creditor  that  contained  an  itemized  statement  of
charges for the 2017 delivery of her son. The creditor combined  Applicant’s two  debts
and the total remaining balance owed by Applicant, after insurance payments, is $2,331.
The other SOR debts listed in the divorce decree are the $4,122 credit-card debt
owed to a home-improvement store for the purchase of a lawnmower (¶ 1.a); the $407
credit-card debt owed to a department store (¶ 1.b); and the $777 credit-card debt owed
to  a  furniture  store  for  the  purchase  of  a  couch  (¶  1.c).  None  of  the  other  six  debts
delineated  in  the  divorce  decree  have  ever  become  delinquent.  (GX  7;  GX  5;  GX  6;
Response.)
In her response to the FORM, Applicant stated:
The divorce awarded  debts in excess of what I could pay off immediately. I
have   contacted   the   collection   agencies  requesting   itemized   details  and
have  received  only those  for the  medical debt related  to  my  son’s 2017  birth.
I  have   a   two-year  plan   I  am   working   through   to   resolve  the   outstanding
debts including  in the  SOR. I prioritized  debt to  the  government and  current
debt pay-off  over collection  debt. I provide all food, shelter, and clothing  for
my two sons with no child support for my former spouse.
Applicant  incurred  the  delinquent  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  between  2017  and
2019. She lives within her means, is current on all of her ongoing financial obligations, is
closely  monitoring  her  expenses,  and  has  not  had  any  additional  delinquent  accounts
since.  She  understands  that  she  is  responsible  for  repaying  her  debts  and  considers
resolving them a priority. (GX 5; GX 6; GX 4; Response.)
