In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶  1.a  and  the  two  cross-
allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a  and  3.a).  He  also  provided  a  narrative  statement.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. He has some college credits. He served in the military
in  the  1990s.  He  and  his  wife  have  been  married  since  1995.  They  have  two  grown
children. He has been employed with a defense contractor since 2008 and indicated on
his SCA that he has held a clearance since 2011. He lives in State 1.
In  March  2021,  City  1,  State  1  police  received  a  cyber  tip  from  the  National
Center  for  Missing  and  Exploited  Children  (NCMEC)  and  Google  regarding  possible
child  pornography  on  an  account  linked  to  Applicant.  His  name  and  e-mail  addresses
were on the account, and they were linked to an internet service provider (ISP) address
under  his  name  at  the  address  in  City  1,  State  1.  When  the  warrant  was  executed,
several family members were there but Applicant was not. He was contacted by police,
told  about  the  search  warrant,  and  was  requested  to  come  to  the  premises,  which  he
did. (Item 4 at 2)
Images downloaded via Applicant’s ISP address were deemed to be:
of  pubescent  minor[s]  and  prepubescent  minor[s]  in  lascivious  exhibition
and sex acts, sado-masochistic abuse, masturbation, breast nudity, [and]
genital  nudity.  The  minors  appeared  to  [range]  in  age  from  7-8  to  13-14.
(Item 4 at 2 (Police incident report))
This City 1 police incident report led to a search warrant signed and issued by a
judge.  The  warrant  was  executed  at  the  address,  which  led,  in  turn,  to  Applicant’s
detention  and  interview  at  the  police  station.  His  cell  phones  were  secured.  He  was
given a Miranda warning and waived his rights and agreed to speak to police. (Item 4)
Applicant  confirmed  his  name,  date  of  birth,  phone  number,  ISP,  and  three
separate  email  addresses.  He  denied  being  “into  kiddy  porn.”  He  was  asked  about
specific photos with  sexually explicit  descriptions  referencing  girls aged  9, 11,  and  12.
According to the police report, Applicant said he “would download it to see what it was
and then delete it.” (Item 4 at 3)
Applicant  was  then  placed  under arrest.  Forensic  examination  revealed  that his
phone  contained  file  names  that  matched  the  cyber  tips  from  the  NCMEC,  and
Applicant’s  name  and  one  of  his  e-mail  addresses.  Another  search  warrant  was  then
executed at the home. (Item 4 at 3-4)
On   his  SCA,   Applicant  reported   that   he   lived   at  the   address  in   question   from
about  May 2007  to  about December  2020  “until  my  father’s health  declined.”  (Item  3  at
9)   He  disclosed   the   arrest   on   his  July  2021   SCA.  He  noted   that   the   case   remained
pending  action  from  a  grand  jury. He  also  said, “there was  a  tip  from  Google that  some
obscene  photos  were downloaded  to  my router. My account  has  been  hacked  multiple
times  and  there  is no  evidence  other  than  a  tip  from  Google.”  He said he  had  informed
his employer’s  security office. (Item  3 at 27)
In  September  2021,  Applicant  had  a  background  interview  relating  to  his
clearance  application.  In  discussing  his  April  2021  arrest,  he  asserted  that  his  Gmail
account  had  been  hacked  many  times  during  2020  and  early  2021.  At  the  time  of  the
warrant,  his  daughter  and  her  fiancé  lived  at  the  residence  in  question  with  their  new
baby. He said his lawyer had explained that he had been charged because the Google
tip  had  been  traced  to  a  modem  and  IP  address  that  was  registered  in  his  name.
Applicant acknowledged that he paid for the internet service in the home. (Item 7 at 3-5)
In discussing the police interview, Applicant said he denied downloading anything
inappropriate.  He  said  anyone  at  the  home,  such  as  his  daughter,  her  fiancé,  or  any
visitors,  would  be  able  to  access  the  Wi-Fi  network  even  though  it  was  password
protected. He was told by police that the downloads occurred in December 2020, which
was  right  when  he  moved  out  of  the  home  and  allowed  his  daughter  and  fiancé  and
their new baby to move in. He was caring for his father who was in poor health and in
hospice  care.  (Item  7  at  3-4)  (On  his  July  2021  SCA,  Applicant  listed  his  father  as
deceased).
In March 2022, Applicant answered an interrogatory from the DOD CAF. Grand
jury  action  on  his  case  remained  pending.  Applicant  said  he  had  “never  downloaded
anything that was known to be illegal.” He said his grandson (12 years old at the time of
the warrant) “used to play on my phone and computer often.” (Item 5 at 2)
In discussing his police interview, Applicant said he told the police that “I had not
downloaded anything like that on my devices. I did admit that I have downloaded normal
adult pornography sometimes and that if anything was ever questionable it was deleted
immediately to remove any question.” He also said that due to his family history, he had
“zero tolerance for people doing anything with children.” (Item 5 at 3)
On  January  26,  2023,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  offense  charged,  i.e.,
possession  of  obscene  matter.  Applicant  was  sentenced  to  a  10-year  jail  term,  to  be
suspended for two years, with Applicant placed on two years of probation. He was fined
and  ordered  to  pay  fees  and  court  costs.  He  was  also  required  to  register  as  a  sex
offender under the State 1 Sex Offender Registration and Notification Act. (Item 6)
In addressing the SOR allegations in his Answer, Applicant said he “was not the
one that committed the infractions listed.”  His daughter and her fiancé had moved into
the  home  with  his  son  and  two  daughters.  He  asserted  that  the  fiancé’s  son  “had
downloaded pictures on  my phone that he had found on Twitter, Instagram, and other
such  sites.”  Applicant  had  confirmed  to  the  police  that  Applicant  had  previously
downloaded  adult  images  “on  commercial,  age-verified  sites”  (i.e.,  adult  pornography)
but he denied downloading child images (i.e., child pornography). He asserted that this
was because his wife had previously been sexually assaulted by a family member and
that he is protective of his wife and daughters. He asserted that his daughter’s fiancé’s
12-year-old son had admitted downloading the images. (Answer)
Applicant  asserted  that  he  pled  guilty  because  there  was  a  guarantee  of  no
prison time, and no further action would be taken. A trial would risk the jury that “would
want to go after him just based off of the charges” and the risk that he would be seen to
be “trying to throw [his grandson] under the bus to stay out of trouble.” (Answer)
In  his  FORM  Response,  Applicant  again  said  that  “I  never  downloaded  any
material  such  as  I  was  accused.”  He  acknowledged  downloading  adult  pornography
from  age-verified  sites  and  he  would  delete  any  images  of  any  females  who  looked
younger  (16-18).  He  said  he  would  never  download  “something  that  was  of  a  child.”
(i.e.,  child  pornographic  images).  He  asserted  that  during  the  investigation  he  was
concerned  that  it  may  have  been  his  son-in-law  or  grandson  (then  age  12)  who  had
downloaded  the  images,  and  that  the  grandson  admitted  weeks  later  that  he  had
downloaded the images but deleted them for fear of getting into trouble. Applicant said
he  took  a  plea  because  of  the  risk  of  jail  time  and  of  possible  charges  against  his
grandson. (FORM Response)
Applicant acknowledged that it was his responsibility and that of his son-in-law to
monitor what Applicant’s grandson was doing on the devices. Applicant asserted that he
is not vulnerable to coercion, exploitation, or duress, in part because he took the plea.
His supervisor and security department are aware of the charges and said they cannot
be used against him. (FORM Response)
Applicant asserted that he can be trusted. He has worked for his employer for 15
years, mostly with a clearance. He served in the military and has never had a security
violation. (FORM Response)
Applicant’s FORM Response included letters from his wife and his mother, and a
joint letter from his daughter and her fiancé. (AE B – AE D) The grandson’s parents said
they recently found out that their son had downloaded some inappropriate materials on
Applicant’s Google account. They talked to their son about “why it wasn’t ok to do that.”
They said Applicant did not want any “backlash” to happen to their son, so he took the
blame.  Applicant  is  a  “great  man.”  His  daughter  insists  Applicant  would  not  take
advantage of any minor over the internet. (AE D)
Applicant’s mother asserted that he never showed interest in younger females in
his  “formative  years.”  He  always  dated  older  women.  He  detests  people  who  mistreat
women and children. (AE C) Applicant’s wife offered a “guarantee [that] he has not done
what he is accused of.” He is the protector of the family and when their adult daughters
were young, he refused to change them, bathe them, or be alone with them.” She trusts
him around any child. She believes their grandson downloaded the material and thought
he had deleted everything. (AE B)
A  manager  at  Applicant’s  employer  has  known  him  for  four  years.  Applicant
possesses  integrity  and  has  healthy  boundaries.  He  is  trustworthy,  reliable,  and
concerned for the well-being of others. He is an asset to the organization. (AE A)
