Having   thoroughly  considered   the   evidence   in  the   record,  I  make   the   following
findings  of  fact:   Applicant  is  51   years  old.  He   enlisted   in  the   Marine   Corps  in  August
1990.  He served  in  Desert Storm,  Desert Shield, Operation  Restore Hope,  31st  Marine
Expeditionary Unit (MEU) out of Okinawa, Japan, and  on  two  sea  service  deployments
throughout  Southwest   Asia.   He  earned  a   master’s  degree   in  2007   from   the   Naval
Postgraduate   School  in   information   technology  management  (ITM).  He  retired   with   an
honorable  discharge  in  July  2011  at the  rank of  staff  sergeant. His decorations  include
the   Meritorious   Service  Medal,  Navy   Commendation   Medal,   and
three   Navy
Achievement Medals. He has an  extensive  background  in IT and  various certifications.
Applicant  was   married   in  1994   and   subsequently   divorced   in   2018.  He   has  an   adult
daughter, and a  son, age 17.  (Tr. 12-13, 23-25; GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant  was  hired  in  February  2014  by  a  government  contractor  as  an
operations  manager.  One  of  his  responsibilities  was  to  ensure  that  the  company’s  IT
operations  ran  smoothly.  He  held  a  DOD  security  clearance  in  this  position.  Under
Guideline  M  (Use  of  Information  Technology),  SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant,  while
employed  in  this  position  and  without  the  chief  executive  officer’s  (CEO)  approval,
obtained and utilized access to his employer’s network drives, which contained the co-
owners’ personal information, as well as corporate sensitive information. (Tr. 23, 25-29;
GE 4)
Applicant testified at the hearing that he  had asked the co-owner  (minority owner)
of the company  for  system  administrator access  through  an  email  communication, with
the  CEO  copied  on  the  email. In about June  2014, he  was granted  system  administrator
access   in  order to   perform   a   network  assessment.   He admitted  that  with   administrator
access   he   had   admittance   to   the   owners’   personal   information   and   any   company
proprietary  information  that was  saved  on  any of the  drives  on  the  network.  He  denied
this  allegation   in  his  SOR  Answer  because   he   did  not  use   or  take   any  proprietary  or
sensitive information.  Applicant  also adamantly  denied  in his SOR  Answer ever having
system  administrator access, which  would  have  prevented  him  from  doing  some  of the
activities  alleged  in the  SOR.  This information  contradicts his testimony.  (Tr. 30-31, 51-
52)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant, without being tasked to do so, gave an outside
vendor and personal friend/acquaintance, access to his employer’s network and allowed
the  vendor  to  install hardware/software  devices  on  the  network  without  prior  approval.
He did not obtain a nondisclosure agreement (NDA) from the vendor before giving the
vendor access to sensitive company data.
In  June  2014,  Applicant  hired  vendor  (A  to  come  to  the  business  where  the
vender  installed  software  and  hardware  (Infoblox)  to  access  the  network  to  ensure
cyber compliance and to perform network hardening, or the testing of vulnerabilities on
the  company’s hard  drives.  Applicant  was familiar  with  the person who  worked for the
software  company,  but  not  the  vendor  who  used  the  software.  After  the  vendor
performed  these  services,  Applicant  admitted  the  CEO  claimed  that  he  had  not  been
given  authorization  to  have  a  vendor  perform  specific  tasks  during  the  network
assessment. He stated that he had been clear during weekly work meetings of his intent
to hire vendor A to access the company’s network. He was present with the vendor the
entire  time  they  were  on  location  performing  these  tasks.  The  vendor  tested  for
vulnerabilities across the network and provided recommendations on how to harden the
network.  He  was  not  aware  that  he  was  supposed  to  obtain  an  NDA  from  the  vendor
since he thought NDAs were only needed in business development. Applicant admitted
he  used  the  system  administrator  status  he  was  granted  so  the  vendor  could  perform
these tests. He testified that he held the system administrator rights for about two weeks
in June 2014. (Tr. 32-36, 50-52; GE 4)
A  government  witness,  Mr.  Z,  with  31  years  of  IT  experience  and  who  also
provided IT services to the federal contractor through his company, testified that a few
weeks before Applicant resigned from his employment, Mr. Z was tasked with reviewing
and  monitoring  the  government  contractor’s  network  to  determine  if  any  company
documents were lost or if any data was transferred from the company’s network. Mr. Z
testified  that  he  managed  all  the  rights,  permissions,  and  access  to  data  on  the
company’s network. He did not grant system administrator privileges to Applicant, but in
May 2014, he did grant vendor A full access through a temporary system administrator
account. Applicant was also able to have system administrator access via the temporary
account  that  was  to  be  used  only  by  the  vendor.  He  stated  that  Applicant  used  the
temporary  account  access  privileges  from  May  2014  until  late  September  2014,  when
an  employee  reported  that  Applicant  had  complete  domain  administrator  privileges
because Applicant had given him the account access password. Mr. Z testified that the
security manager immediately requested that he remove Applicant’s access through the
temporary account created for the vendor. (Tr. 18, 97-99, 101-103, 105-107; GE 2, 4)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  on  January  14,  2015,  Applicant  downloaded  his
information  regarding  the
employer’s  proprietary
employer’s owners, and project data related to one or more government contracts.  He
saved approximately 7 GB of data to a personal Dropbox and then deleted evidence of
the activity from his work laptop.
information,  sensitive  personal
Applicant testified this event occurred about a month before he left this place of
employment.  He  stated  that  he  installed  a  Dropbox  account  due  to  employees  having
difficulty  obtaining  information  from  the  company  drives.  This  Dropbox  allowed  project
employees  access  to  information  while  there  were  at  their  customer  worksites.  The
information he placed in the Dropbox was necessary for the employees to perform their
job duties, and he said the Dropbox was in full compliance with IT rules and regulations.
He did not recall asking for permission to set up the Dropbox account but stated he had
provided  notice  during  the  weekly  meetings  that  he  was  going  to  do  so.  He  started
moving data  into the Dropbox, which he claimed was  a  secure environment, using  his
work e-mail. He worked out of the conference room on a regular basis and sometimes
turned off the lights to take advantage of the natural lighting. As soon as the CEO found
out  that  he  had  completed  this  task,  she  got  extremely  upset,  and  he  immediately
deleted the information he had placed into the Dropbox. (Tr. 36-45, 62-64; GE 2)
Mr. Z testified that the night of January 14, 2015, just before Applicant departed
from  his  employment,  he  was  accessing  files  from  the  company’s  server  at  4:20  p.m.
The forensic evidence showed that about 7 GB of data was transferred onto Applicant’s
laptop in his Dropbox account. Mr. Z stated that the Dropbox was not a secure or proper
way  to  handle  the  transference  of  sensitive  information.  The  office  video  camera
footage showed that at 6:26 p.m., Applicant turned off the lights in the conference room
while  waiting  for  the  data  to  migrate.  At  7:04  p.m.,  Applicant  deleted  the  Dropbox
content from his laptop with encryption to prevent detection. Security video footage also
showed that Applicant then turned on the lights, activated the building’s security alarm,
and  exited  the  building  with  his  personal  belongings  in  hand.  Based  on  the  forensic
evidence found by Mr. Z during an examination of Applicant’s work laptop, the CEO filed
an  incident  report  against  Applicant.  She  accused  Applicant  of  downloading  company
proprietary information and sensitive personal information concerning the owners of the
company,  and  project  data  related  to  one  or  more  government  contracts  that  was
possibly considered Controlled Technical Information. On this day, Applicant moved the
data into a personal Dropbox account on his work laptop using his personal email, and
then he deleted the trail from his laptop that same evening with the use of File Sanitizer,
which  was  used  to  permanently  delete  files.  Less  than  a  week  after  this  incident,
Applicant  submitted  his  letter  of  resignation  to  the  company.  The  detailed  analysis  of
forensic  data  recovered  from  Applicant’s  laptop  was  provided  to  the  Defense  Security
Service and the FBI. (Tr. 107-112; GE 2, 3, 4)
Due  to  this  incident,  in  April  2015,  the  security  manager  of  the  government
contractor  contacted  their  customer  on  a  government  contract  to  self-report  a  security
incident  concerning  their  former  employee.  The  security  manager  informed  their
customer  that  Applicant  had  downloaded  sensitive  information  regarding  the  contract,
and requested further direction from the customer. (GE 4)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  Applicant  violated  his  employer’s  IT  policies  when  he
used  his  work  laptop  to  download  or  access  pornographic  material.  Applicant  testified
that  he  was  not  aware  that  he  had  accessed  pornography  on  his  work  laptop,  but  he
takes  accountability  for  this  transgression.  “I'm  not  saying  I  didn't  do  it.  I'm  just  not
aware  of  it.”  He  testified  that  he  would  never  download  porn  but  he  could  have
accessed porn on his work laptop. He was aware that he should generally not access
pornography on a work laptop, but he was not aware of any specific rule or policy that
prohibited  such  conduct.  He  was  not  aware  that  porn  sites  were  notorious  for  having
viruses or malware. (Tr. 46, 77-78; GE 4)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  that  Applicant  “enabled”  or  tampered  with  “HP  Protect”
security  software on his laptop  in  violation of company policy. Applicant  stated that he
did use HP Protect to wipe the work computer when he was departing his employment
in February 2015, which he thought was an acceptable practice at most companies. He
denied installing HP Protect on his work computer because he believed it was already
preloaded  onto  his  work  computer.  He  did  not  admit  to  wiping  his  computer  clean  on
more than one occasion, but he did admit he did so at the end of his employment. (Tr.
36-45, 47-49; 62-64; GE 2, 4)
Mr. Z testified that wiping a computer clean is a red flag for IT professionals that
someone  is  trying  to  hide  something  on  their  computer.  Wiping  a  computer  before
departing a place of employment is also not a common practice within the industry. He
testified that a standard user should not have access to do a factory reset of the work
computer  unless  they  had  administrator  rights.  When  a  laptop  is  returned  by  an
employee, all that is needed is to wipe out the user’s profile. There is no need to initiate
a  complete  wipe  of  the  computer.  Mr.  Z said  that  Applicant  had  completed  a  previous
wipe  to  his  work  laptop  in  either  July  or  August  2014,  in  addition  to  the  wipe  he
performed in February 2015, based on his forensic analysis. Mr. Z was able to recover
most of the deleted data on Applicant’s laptop by using R-Studio, and other applications
in  his  forensic  examination.  He  determined  that  Applicant  had  been  able  to  do  many
activities that a standard IT user would not be able to do. (Tr. 108-117; GE 4)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  that  Applicant  created  multiple  usernames  and  passwords
without  IT  or  CEO  permission  in  violation  of  company  policy.  Applicant  stated  this
incident  stemmed  from  the  time  he  hired  a  vendor  to  perform  system  checks  and
vulnerabilities  on  the  company’s  network.  He  created  multiple  usernames  and
passwords  so  that  the  system  screenings  could  be  performed.  Another  employee
reported  to the  security  manager  in  September 2014  that Applicant  had  given  him  the
system administration password. The security manager contacted Mr. Z and requested
that Applicant’s system administrator access be removed immediately. When Applicant
was questioned about this incident, he stated; “I don’t really understand the context, so
it’s hard for me to say.” (Tr. 50-52; GE 4, 5)
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges that Applicant installed unauthorized software on his company
laptop  in  violation  of  company  policy.  Department  Counsel  acknowledged  this  SOR
allegation  somewhat  overlapped  with  the  allegation  of  Applicant  installing  or using  HP
Protect  software.  Applicant  stated  in  his  SOR  response  “I  did  not  utilize,  nor  was  I
afforded  system  administration  or  network  administration  right  in  any  capacity  of  my
job.”  This  sentiment  is  repeated  several  times  in  his  SOR  Answer.  His  testimony
indicated  he  was granted  system  administrator  privileges for approximately two  weeks
in June  2014  by  the  minority owner.  Applicant explained  previously that  the  HP Protect
software   was  already   preloaded   on   his  work  computer,  but  the   IT  provider,  Mr.  Z,
testified   that  he   deleted   all   applications  of   HP  Protect  from   all   of  the   work  laptops
provided  to  government contractor employees. When  I specifically asked  Applicant if  he
had  downloaded  HP Protect,  which  was used  to  wipe  his laptop,  his response  was;  “No,
not  that  I'm   aware   of.”   He  denied   knowledge   of   the   File  Shredder   on  his  laptop,  and
explained   that  the  Dropbox account  was   not   software   but  was  actually   “a   link  to   go   to
the  internet”  in  order to  interface  with  an  encrypted  site, like  a  cloud.  (Tr. 47,  52-54, 56-
57; SOR Answer; GE  4)
Mr.  Z testified  that the federal contractor did not utilize  Dropbox. He  stated  that
government contractors are not permitted to store any information on the cloud unless it
is  an  approved  government  cloud,  such  as  DOD  SAFE,  for  instance.  He  also  pointed
out that if an employee needed Dropbox, they would use their work email address and
create  the  account.  Applicant  did  not  use  his  work  email  address.  Applicant  used  his
personal account when using Dropbox on his computer. Mr. Z stated that the analysis of
the Dropbox  not only showed the  contractor’s  data  was stored there,  but also  showed
data Applicant had taken from a previous employer. Mr. Z stated, “so, we see a pattern
here.” (Tr. 117-122; GE 4)
SOR ¶  1.h  alleges that  Applicant disabled  or  failed  to  run  virus protection  on  his
work  laptop,  which   resulted   in  malware  virus  infestation   of  his  local  profile.   He  denied
this allegation  in  his Answer and  again during  his testimony.  When questioned  about  his
access  to  porn  websites to  view pornography, I asked  Applicant  whether it  was  common
knowledge   in  the   IT  industry  that  many  of  these   porn   websites  contained   viruses  or
malware.  Applicant  answered  that  he  was not aware  of this  information.  (Tr. 54-55, 77-
78; SOR Answer; GE  4)
Mr.  Z logged into Applicant’s  work laptop and  discovered  that  there  was  not  an
active  virus  defense  application  installed.  A  full  scan  of  the  computer  revealed  Trojan
viruses and malware in the local profile used by Applicant. Mr. Z had to have the viruses
and  malware  removed  before  a  detailed  analysis  of  Applicant’s  laptop  could  be
completed.  Mr.  Z  also  noted  that  accessing  pornographic  websites  could  have
contributed to the viruses and malware on the laptop. (GE 4)
Applicant departed employment with the federal contractor in February 2015 and
started  a  franchise.  He  testified  that  the  franchise  did  not  interfere  or  overlap  with  the
business of his former employer. He operated the franchise for five years while he also
worked concurrently as a sales director for another company. Since 2018, Applicant has
served as a vice president of his current company, and he is requesting a DOD security
clearance  be  granted  so  he  can  perform  specific  job  duties.  (GE  1;  Tr.  12-13,  22-23;
SOR Answer)
Paragraph  2  of  the  SOR  alleged  Guideline  K  (Handling  Protected  information)
security  concerns,  and  it  cross-alleged  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c.  Applicant  denied  that  he
mishandled  protected  information  in  any  way.  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  Paragraph  3  of  the  SOR
alleged Guideline E (Personal Conduct) security concerns, as follows:
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges that in approximately August 2014, Applicant refused a direct
order  from  the  CEO  to  lay  off  an  employee.  Applicant  admitted  this  information  in  his
Answer. Instead of laying off the employee, he stated that the CEO wanted him to fire
the  female  employee  for  a  dress  code  violation,  specifically,  for  a  skirt  that  was  too
short.  Applicant  determined  that  this  employee  was  not  in  violation  of  company  policy
and  refused  to  fire  the  employee.  A  meeting  followed,  and  the  CEO  again  asked
Applicant to fire the employee. Applicant stated that he refused because the female was
not his employee and because he believed that both owners of the company were also
in  violation of  the  dress  code policy.  Applicant  denied that  he had a  close  relationship
with this employee, but he did acknowledge she was hired to work for his franchise after
he left the government contractor. The CEO reported that Applicant was asked to lay off
the employee due to lack of contract work, and he refused. (Tr. 64-69; GE 5)
SOR  ¶  3.b  alleges  that  in  approximately  August  2014,  Applicant  informed  the
company’s security officer that he already had possession of all of his employer’s data.
Applicant  denied  this  information.  He  stated  in  his  Answer  that  any  data  that  he
maintained was for the normal performance of his employment duties. He testified that
because  he  did  not  have  system  administrative  rights,  he  denied  that  he  had  “full”
access to all of the company’s data. (Tr. 69-70; GE 5)
SOR ¶ 3.c alleges that while Applicant was the sole administer of his employer’s
LinkedIn account, he allowed, or caused, the employer’s page to be changed or redirect
visitors to Applicant’s new startup company, rather than the federal contractor. Applicant
admitted  setting  up  his  employer’s  LinkedIn  account.  After  his  departure,  he  was  not
aware  he  was  the  sole  person  who  retained  rights  to  the  LinkedIn  account.  Once  the
human  resources  director  contacted  him  about  this  matter,  he  immediately  provided
access  and  privileges  to  his  previous  employer.  His  testimony  was  that  this  was  a
misunderstanding and in no way intentional. (Tr. 70-72; GE 6)
SOR ¶ 3.d cross-alleged all of the information  cited  under Paragraphs 1  and 2.
Applicant denied this information.
Character Evidence
Applicant called a former colleague who had worked with him while employed by
the  same  government  contractor.  The  individual  said  he  felt  compelled  to  testify  on
behalf  of  Applicant  because  after  he  left  this  same  employer  in  early  2016,  the
company’s  CEO  also  falsely  charged  him  with  many  of  the  same  accusations  they
made about Applicant after his departure in February 2015. The witness believed these
were  company  tactics  to  prevent  employees  from  competing  with  the  company’s
business. He clarified that his role in this company was business development, and he
was  not  involved  in  IT.  He  also  admitted  that  he  continued  to  develop  business  after
leaving  this  employment,  and  the  federal  contractor  was  successful  in  preventing  him
from pursuing business with a contact he had developed. The witness also testified that
he has worked on many projects with Applicant, and Applicant’s business and personal
actions  were  always  beyond  reproach.  He  recommended  that  Applicant  be  granted  a
DOD security clearance. (Tr. 82-93; AE F, G)
Applicant  also  provided  character-reference  letters  from  a  previous  employee,
supervisor, and the president of the federal contractor that currently employs Applicant.
The  general  sense  of  the  character  evidence  is  that  he  is  diligent,  professional,
productive,  reliable,  and
important
contributions to warfighters’ mission. His character statements support reinstatement of
his security clearance. (AE C, D, E)
trustworthy.  Applicant  continues
to  provide
