In Applicant’s answer, he admitted one of the allegations in the SOR, except that
he  admitted  using  marijuana  only  up  until  “at  least  March  2022.”  (¶  1.a;  See  SOR
Answer  at  Item  3),  and  denied  the  other  allegation  (¶  1.b).  He  also  provided  some
explanation for his conduct.  I  adopt  his partial  admission  to  SOR ¶  1.a  as a  finding of
fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following additional findings of fact. (Items 1, 3)
Applicant is 25  years  old.  He  is single,  never has married,  and  has no  children.
He  has  worked   as   a   network  technician   for his  current  employer,   a   federal   contractor,
since  March  2022.  That contractor is subject  to  the  drug-free  workplace  provisions  of  41
U.S.C.  701   et  seq.   Applicant   completed   his  academic   requirements  for  his   bachelor’s
degree, but as of  May 2022, it had not been  awarded.  (Items  4,  5)
The  SOR  alleged,  under  Guideline  H,  that  Applicant  used  and  purchased
marijuana  from  May  2015  to  at  least  May  2022  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  It  also  alleged  that
Applicant  used  marijuana  after  completing  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  on
April 7, 2022 (SOR ¶ 1.b).
Applicant  admitted  his  marijuana  use  in  his  April  2022  SCA,  his  May  2022
personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with  an  investigator,  and  in  his  March  2023  SOR
answer. In his SOR answer, he denied using and purchasing marijuana after completing
his SCA in April 2022. As noted above, his admissions of marijuana use and purchasing
consistently used March 2022 as his cessation date. (Items 3-4)
During Applicant’s PSI, he stated that his marijuana use started in approximately
2014-2015 after he fell off a truck and injured his back.  He admitted not getting proper
medical  treatment  for  his  injury  and  instead  started  using  marijuana  for  pain
management. In approximately June 2015, he began getting marijuana from his friends
and smoking it to alleviate his back pain. He used marijuana irregularly from June 2015
to August 2016. He abstained from August 2016 to March 2017. After March 2017, he
started using marijuana on weekends sporadically. This frequency of use continued until
December 2018 when he stopped again. (Item 5)
In  June  2018,  Applicant  was  ticketed  for  possession  of  marijuana  because  his
passenger had lit up a marijuana joint just as the police officer arrived. The charge was
dismissed when his friend admitted ownership of the marijuana. (Item 5)
The  information  in  Applicant’s  PSI  summary  about  the  end  of  his  marijuana
activity  is  vague  and  contradictory  to  his  earlier  admissions  of  marijuana  use  and
purchasing from May 2015 to March 2022. The ambiguous language from his PSI is:
Since   03/2020   to   present,  the   Subject   no   longer  uses   marijuana   on
weekends  because   he   works  on   weekends.  He  occasionally   uses
marijuana   throughout  the   week  on   as  [sic]  a   needed   basis  to   help  with
pain management particularly  at night when  the  pain  causes  lack of  sleep.
(Item  5)
In his earlier SCA, Applicant stated his use frequency was, “Nightly or weekends
only.  1-2  joints.”  The  investigator  did  not  clarify  the  discrepancy  between  these  two
statements.  Additionally,  the  investigator  did  not  clarify  what  the  term  “to  present”
meant.  Was  Applicant  saying  he  used  marijuana  up  through  his  PSI  interview  in  May
2022?  Or  was  he  saying  that  his  use  was  up  until  he  began  working  for  his  current
employer in March 2022, which would be consistent with his earlier answers as to when
he  stopped  using  marijuana?  Because  of  these  ambiguities  in  his  PSI  interview
summary, which he did not authenticate, I find Applicant’s statements that he ended his
marijuana use in  March  2022 more credible than the  information  contained in his PSI.
(Items 4-5)
Applicant  provided  medical  information,  attached  to  his  SOR  answer,  that
described  his  back  pain  issues.  The  doctor  performing  the  most  recent  examination
(sometime in 2021) recommended?  that Applicant should seek a surgery consult, or if
no surgery was recommended, he should start physical therapy. No further information
was provided. (Item 3)
To  help  with  his  back  pain,  Applicant  avers  he  now  follows  his  doctor’s  advice
regarding pain management, performs yoga, wears a back brace, uses a massage gun,
meditates daily, uses CBD cream, and stretches. He longer associates with people who
are known drug users. (Items 3, 5)
