Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in May 2001 and divorced in May 2006. (GE 1) He remarried in
July 2006 and divorced in April 2008. (GE 1) He has no children from either marriage.
Applicant remarried for the third time in July 2008 and divorced in February 2017. (GE
1; Tr. 23) He has one child (age 14) from his latest marriage.
Applicant  has  taken  classes  from  a  local  university  since  2019,  but  he  has  not
earned a degree or diploma. (GE 1) He enlisted in the Army in March 1996 and served
almost 20 years of active duty before receiving an Army medical discharge in July 2016
with  a  cited  345%  disability  that  covered  multiple  pain  issues  in  different  areas  of  his
body. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 23, 28)
Since  September  2021,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  as  a  field  service  representative.  (GE  1)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other
employers  in  various  jobs.  (GE  1)  He  reported  unemployment  between  August  2016
and  September  2019.  (GEs  1-3)  Applicant  held  a  security  clearance  throughout  his
Army  enlistment,  as  well  as  with  his  previous  employer before  his termination  in  June
2021  for  cited  reasons  of  testing  positive  for  CBD  oil  containing  THC.  (GE  1;  Tr.  23)
Applicant continues to receive military disability pay and medical care from the Veterans
Administration (VA) to “improve my way of life.” (Tr. 23) He is currently sponsored by his
employer for a security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 29)
Applicant’s  drug  history
During  a  routine,  randomized  drug  screening  in  June  2021,  Applicant  tested
positive  for  marijuana.  (GE  5)  Although  the  amount  of  THC  in  his  system  was  not
recorded, enough THC was found to confirm a positive test for marijuana. As the result
of his positive drug test, he was terminated from his employment. (GEs 1 and 6; Tr. 36)
Once  Applicant  learned  of  his  positive  drug  test,  he  disposed  of  all  of  his
cannabidiol  (CBD  oil).  (Tr.  36)  Prior  to  appearing  for  his  scheduled  randomized  drug
test in June 2021, Applicant failed to notify either the Government or his employer at the
time that he was ingesting CBD oil. (Tr. 28-31) He neither challenged the positive test
results  nor  offered  explanations  to  his  then-employer  of  what  might  have  caused  his
positive drug test.
Applicant  denied   using   marijuana   prior  to   his  positive   drug   test  and   claimed   he
had   tried   a   new   product   (CBD   oil)   recommended   and   given   to   him   by  a   friend   who
“brought”   the   CBD oil  from   another state   (Applicant’s   Response; Tr.   23-24,   37)   Before
using   the   brand   CBD oil   recommended   to   him   by  his  friend   at   the   time,   he   was   gifted
CBD oil  on  two prior occasions  “from  a  different  source  “at  a  local gas station.  (Tr. 23-
24)  Claiming   he   did  not  know  the   CBD   oil   he   obtained   was  enhanced   with   THC  (the
main  psychoactive   component  of  marijuana),   he  neither  checked   the   contents  of  the
product   on   his pre-test  form   he   completed   for  his prior  employer  (Tr.  30-31)   nor  listed
his use  of  CBD oil   in his  electronic questionnaire   for investigations   processing   (e-QIP)
he completed for his current employer. Asked why he did not disclose his positive drug
test  to  his  current  employer  in  the  e-QIP  section,  covering  illegal  drugs,  Applicant
responded that (a) “he didn’t think it was “going to be a big issue” because he had not
smoked marijuana prior to his positive drug test and (b) his use of CBD oil was not court
related. (Tr. 27)
Applicant  acknowledged  his mistake  of using  pre-test  CBD oil without providing
any  documented  evidence  of  pre-test  CBD  oil  in  his  system  and  its  potential  for
producing  positive  test  results  for  marijuana.  (Applicant’s  response;  Tr.  24,  30-31)  He
based his entire denial of marijuana in his system when tested on his verbal assurances
that  he  has  never  used  marijuana  and  has  since  ceased  using  any  form  of  CBD  oil.
(Applicant’s  Response,  Tr.  24)  Asked  about  documented  proof  of  his  taking  CBD  oil
laced  with  THC,  Applicant  could  not  provide  any  product  labels,  correspondence,  or
other  proof  to  verify  his  use  of  CBD  oil  prior  to  testing  positive  for  marijuana  in  his
system. (Tr. 30) Whether the Veterans Administration (VA) would have prescribed CBD
oil to Applicant is unclear and may be dependent upon the levels of THC in the product
to be prescribed. (Tr. 30)
While  THC  is  a  chemical  element  typically  found  in  both  CBD-sourced  hemp
plants  and  marijuana  plants,  Applicant  could  furnish  no  evidence  the  oil  used  was
proven to contain THC at levels that could be mistaken for marijuana in a randomized
drug  test.  (Tr.  32-35). Although  traces  of  THC  have  been  found  in  studies  of  CBD  oil,
research  supporting  the  drug’s  benefits  in  treating  these  conditions  is  still  limited.  See
Bauer, What are the Benefits of CBD-and is it Safe to Use, Mayo Clinic Press (2023).
(HE 3)
When the concentration of THC in tested urine exceeds 50 ng/mL, most tests will
yield  a  positive  result  according  to  data  compiled  by  the  Centers  for  Disease  Control
and  Prevention.  See  Urine  Testing
for  Detection  of  Marijuana:  An  Advisory,
https//www.cdc.go.  (1983).  (HE  2)  Currently,  the  THC  content  in  tested  marijuana
typically  exceeds  13  per  cent.  See  C.  Halderman-Englert,  Cannabinoid  Screen  and
Confirmation,  Univ.  of  Rochester  Medical  Center,  https.//www.urm.rochester.edu.
(2023). (He 4)
By  contrast,  THC  levels  in   CBD   oils  are  advertised   to   contain   no   THC  and
typically  contain   no   THC,  or  very  small   traces  (no   more  than   0.3   percent).  See   L.
Hellicar, Does Cannabidiol (CBDZ) Contain THC? in  Medical News  Today  (2023).  (HE
5)  Still,   studies   caution  that   in   some   lower-grade   CBD  products   (depending   on   the
source  of  the   marketed   CBD   oil),  tested   CBD  products   can   contain  sufficiently   high
levels  of  THC to  result in a  positive  marijuana  test  under random  drug  testing  programs.
See   id.   Similar  studies   are   cited  in   the   Security  Executive   Agent’s (SecEA)  December
2021   guidance   on   the   risks  associated   with   using   CBD  products  that  may   cause
significantly   high   levels  of   THC   to   result   in  a   positive   drug   test  under  agency-
administered   employment  or   random   drug   testing   programs.  See   SecEA’s  Clarifying
Guidance   Concerning   Marijuana   for  Agencies  Conducting   Adjudications   of   Persons
Proposed   for   Eligibility  for   Access   to   Classified   Information   or  Eligibility  to   Hold   a
Sensitive Position  at 3  (Dec. 2021)
When  requested to  identify  the  specific  CBD oil  product he  was taking,  Applicant
could not  (a) identify  the type  of CBD product  he  used, (b) document the  labels of  the
product,  or  (c)   supply   any  other   evidence   to   refute   the   positive  results  for  marijuana
reported  in the  test results  of  his June  2021  test  (Tr. 32)  Offered  a  further opportunity  to
furnish  proof  of his  innocent  acceptance  of CBD oil  products from  sources he  obtained
his CBD oil,  Applicant could provide  no  further proof of the  CBD products he  used. (Tr.
36) Having  cut off  all  ties and  discarding  of the  products themselves  when  “he was fired
from   work),  he   could   not   document   any  evidence   of   the   CBD  products   he   used   and
“exactly how  they worked into  my case.”  (Tr. 36)
Pressed further at hearing for details on whether he checked to see whether the
CBD products he used contained THC, he replied that he did not look at the labels on
the  CBD  products  he  obtained.  (Tr.  37)  The  only  helpful  information  he  could  provide
was that (a) one of his suppliers was a friend who purchased the CBD from a source in
another state and (b) his other two transactions were made at a local gas station without
any acknowledged  close checking of labels. (Tr. 37-38) Asked whether CBD is sold in
grocery  stores  or  pharmacies,  Applicant  replied  that  he  was  not  aware  of  such
marketing  of  the  product,  never  “went  back  to  look,”  and  could  offer  no  proof  of  his
claimed innocent ingestion of THC oil. (Tr. 38-39)
Because of the risk that CBD products can potentially contain varying amounts of
THC  that  exceed  the  federally  and  state-mandated  maximum  THC  percent  levels  for
public marketing (i.e., 0.3 per cent), individuals are generally advised to check the labels
of the CBD products they purchase in retail stores licensed to sell CBD products. See B.
Bauer, What are the Benefits of CBD-and is it Safe to Use, supra,  (HE 4)
Based   on   the  evidence   produced,  interpretation   of  the   test  results  associated
with   Applicant’s  June  2021   positive  drug   test  leaves   only  three   plausible   explanations:
(1)  Applicant  knew,  or  is  imputed   to   have   known,   there  was  THC  in  the   CBD  that
exceeded   or  likely  exceeded     authorized   federal  limits;   (2)  Applicant  did   not  know  the
CBD he  consumed  was  likely to  contain  an  excessive amount   of  THC; or (3) Applicant
consumed   a  substantial  amount  of  CBD  oil   either  at  one   time   or  through   repeated
ingestion,  so  that even  if the  CBD oil  met federal  legal limits  (i.e.,  0.3  per cent),  it would
still  result in a  positive  urinalysis test result. Application  of CBD oil  use  under  either  of
the   situations  covered   in  (2)  or   (3)  could  produce   a   favorable   innocence   result   for
Applicant  based  on  a  finding  that he  ingested  a  presumably legal product.  Conversely,
application of the situation covered (1) would not.
Resolution  of  Applicant’s  innocence  claims  requires  a  credibility  assessment  of
Applicant’s  personal  denials  of  any  knowing  use  of  THC-laced  CBD  oil  prior  to  his
positive 2021 drug test that takes into  all of the surrounding circumstances  associated
with  his  positive  test  and  claims  of  innocent  use.  In  Applicant’s  case,  potentially
favorable  alternative  explanations  of  his  positive  drug  test  are  neither  plausible  nor
credible without more information from Applicant on the identity and sources of the CBD
oil  he  claims  to  have  obtained  and  used  prior  to  his  June  2021  positive  drug  test  for
marijuana. Applicant’s personal claims of innocent use of CBD oil without any  effort to
assess the THC content of the CBD oil products he was given are not enough to meet
established  Appeal  Board  credibility  assessment  requirements  for  satisfying  an
applicant’s  evidentiary proof  burden.  More  corroborating  information  from  Applicant  is
needed  to  reconcile  his  claims  of  innocent  use  with  the  positive  test  results  for
marijuana he received in 2021
Applicant’s finances
Between  2011  and  2016,  Applicant  opened  two  consumer  accounts  exceeding
$13,000 in the aggregate. (GEs 2-4; Tr. 25) Credit reports document that he defaulted in
his monthly payments on these two accounts in June 2022. He attributed these debts to
his  difficulties  in  finding  employment  following  his  Army  discharge  in  2016.  (GE  2)
Applicant  enrolled  in  a  debt  relief  program  in  2020  and  has  since  paid  in  full  the  two
accounts  covered  in  the  SOR  (AEs  C-F;  Tr.  25)  He  is  current  with  his  other  accounts
and  has  no  outstanding  delinquent  debts.  Both  of  the  covered  debts  in  the  SOR  are
resolved favorably to Applicant.
Endorsements
Applicant is well-regarded by his program and project managers. (AEs A-B) Both
attested  to  his  dedication,  sound  judgment,  leadership  qualities.  and  overall  good
character. However, neither of these managers professed to have any knowledge of the
facts  and  circumstances  surrounding  Applicant’s  positive  test  for  marijuana  in  June
2021, or of his claimed use of CBD oil. (AEs A-B)
