Applicant is 33  years old. He  has never married, but he  is presently engaged. He
has no  children.  He attended  a  U.S. military academy (the  Academy) from  June  2009  to
November  2011.  He  played   football   at  the   Academy.  He   was  dismissed   from   the
Academy  before  he  had  earned  a  degree. In  April 2017,  he  completed  his undergraduate
courses  and   received   a   bachelor’s  degree   at  another   university.   He  also  earned   a
master’s  degree   in  October  2020.  He  has  worked   as  an   engineer  since   2017,  most
recently  as  a   systems   engineer  for  a   U.S.  Government  contractor.  He  seeks  national
security eligibility in connection  with  his  employment.  He  was denied  eligibility by another
government agency in  March 2021,  one  month  before  he  submitted  the  e-QIP. (Tr. at 12-
13, 40;  GE 1 at 7, 14-20, 30, 62-64; GE  6 at 4.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct)
In the Answer, Applicant admitted “with clarifications” each of the five allegations
under this guideline. The record evidence supports the following findings with respect to
the matters alleged in paragraph 1 of the SOR:
1.a. March 2019  Arrest for Attempted  Assault, Resisting  Arrest,  Obstruction  of a
Police  Officer, and  Assault or Battery. Applicant engaged in a dispute with a driver from
a ride-share company (the Driver) after a night in a bar with friends. Applicant and his
friends were arguing with each other over where the Driver should go first.  The Driver
pulled over and asked the occupants to get out of his car. Applicant got out of the car and
proceeded to punch the Driver in his left cheek with a closed fist through the open window.
Applicant and his friends entered a nearby hotel. The Driver called the police, and upon
arrival  at  the  scene,  the  police  interviewed  the  Driver.  He  provided  the  police  with  a
description of Applicant’s assault and advised that Applicant and his friends had entered
a hotel across the street. At the DOHA hearing, Applicant denied that he punched the
Driver in the face. He also claimed it was the Driver who was being aggressive, and it
was Applicant who demanded the Driver to pull over and let the group leave the car so
they could find another ride to their homes. (Tr. at 15, 51; GE 4 at 1; GE 5 at 1-10.)
The police entered the hotel and identified Applicant by the Driver’s description of
him. The police attempted to question Applicant about the dispute. Applicant declined to
respond,  even  refusing  to  provide  his  name  and  identification  card.  He  testified  at  the
DOHA  hearing  that  he  was  unaware  that  he  was  required  to  provide  his  name  and
identification  to  the  police.  The  police  asked  Applicant  to  provide  his  side  of  the  story
regarding his interactions with the Driver. He refused to speak and told his friends to “shut
up.” The police further advised Applicant that he would not be allowed to leave without
properly identifying himself. He again refused. At the hearing, Applicant justified his lack
of cooperation with the police by testifying “there was a lot of racial things going on in the
nation,  and  I  didn’t  want  to  be  involved  or  be  one  of  them.”  He  also  claimed  he  was
unaware of the reason why the police were asking him questions. He was placed under
arrest for assaulting the Driver. He continued to refuse police orders and actively refused
to put his hands behind his back so that he could be handcuffed. He was so strong that
the police could not undo his grip on his hands in front of him. He continued to resist all
instructions from the police, even after being told he would be pepper sprayed in the face
if  he  did  not  cooperate.  He  was  then  pepper  sprayed  and  handcuffed  with  his  hands
behind his back. He refused to walk to the police vehicle, and due to his large size, four
police officers had to carry him to the vehicle. He further resisted the officers attempt to
have him sit in the vehicle. Instead, he laid on the back seat with his feet hanging outside
the door preventing it from closing. (Tr. at 14-17, 51-55; GE 2 at 8-9; GE 3 at 10-11; GE
4 at 1; GE 5 at 1-10.)
The  police  determined  that  based  upon  the  Driver’s  statement  regarding  the
incident that they had probable cause to arrest Applicant for assault. They also concluded
that they had probable cause to arrest him for resisting arrest/obstructing a police officer.
He was charged with those two misdemeanor offenses. Applicant’s version of the incident
with the Driver was unpersuasive, and his demeanor throughout his testimony regarding
his interaction with the police further undercut the credibility of his testimony. Moreover,
Applicant’s  behavior  was  totally  at  odds  with  his  stated  concern  about  the  police
overreacting and using excessive force against him. In reality, his behavior reflected his
abuse of alcohol that evening, which would explain why the criminal trial judge ordered
Applicant  to  abstain  from  consuming  alcohol  for  90  days  as  part  of  his  agreement  to
dismiss the charges. (Tr. at 14-17, 51-55; GE 2 at 8-9; GE 3 at 10-11; GE 4 at 1; GE 5 at
1-10.)
1.b.  January 2013  Arrest for Abusive Sexual Conduct in  Violation  of the  Uniform
Code  of Military Justice  (UCMJ) Article 120. On or about May 14, 2011, Applicant, others
from the Academy, and a female civilian (the Civilian) were together drinking alcohol at a
night club. The group then went to a hotel room to continue drinking alcohol. The Civilian
was intoxicated and laid down on a bed in the room. She then fell asleep. When Applicant
and the Civilian were later alone in the room, Applicant laid down on the bed next to The
Civilian and touch her genitals through her underwear. The Civilian awoke and told him
to stop several times, which he did briefly. He continued to arouse himself against her
body and eventually ejaculated. The next day the Civilian filed a sexual assault complaint
with the local police, though she did not know Applicant’s identity. She received medical
attention, and it was noted that there were bruises on her thigh. Also, Applicant’s DNA
was found on her back. She subsequently identified Applicant when she saw his picture
on  a  television  show  in  connection  with  other  sexual  assaults.  The  local  police  ceded
primary  jurisdiction  over  the  investigation  and  charges  to  the  Academy.  Applicant  was
charged with violating Article 120 of the UCMJ. At the June 2012 courts-martial described
in SOR ¶ 1.c, Applicant was found not guilty of this charge. (Tr. at 17, 46-48; GE 6 at 2,
4; GE 10 at 1-2.)
1.c.  June  2012  Court-Martial Trial and  Conviction  for Violations of UCMJ Articles
80,  120,  and  128.  In June 2012, Applicant was court-martialed for the conduct set forth in
SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.d and 1.e. He was charged with violating Articles 80, 120, and 128 of the
UCMJ, and he was convicted on the specifications relating to the incidents alleged in SOR
¶¶  1.d  and  1.e.  Applicant  was  sentenced  to  dismissal  from  the  service,  six  months  of
confinement, and forfeiture  of all pay and allowances.  A punitive dismissal  is the legal
term for the dishonorable discharge of an officer or academy cadet. He appealed and his
conviction was upheld by the Court of Criminal Appeals for his branch of the military. He
was dismissed from the Academy. (Tr. at 21-22, 44; GE 6 at 1-2; GE 7; GE 8; GE 12.)
1.d.   December  2011   Arrest  for  Wrongful  Sexual   Contact   in  violation   of   UCMJ
Article 120. In November 2011, Applicant was investigated for a sexual assault involving
a  female  classmate  (the  Classmate)  that  occurred  in  about  March  2011  in  Applicant’s
dorm room at the Academy. He, two male classmates, and the Classmate spent several
hours drinking alcohol and playing cards late at night. He met the Classmate for the first
time that evening. The Classmate  became intoxicated and vomited. She fell asleep on
the  bed  of  Applicant’s  roommate.  The  male  classmates  left  the  room  to  return  to  their
rooms, leaving Applicant alone with the Classmate, who was asleep. Applicant was highly
intoxicated. Applicant pulled his pants and underwear down to midthigh. The Classmate
felt Applicant entering the bed in which she was sleeping and lie behind her, pressing his
body against hers. He then took her hand and rubbed it against his genitals. After a few
seconds, she was coherent enough to realize what Applicant was doing and pulled her
hand away. She then vomited again. He claimed at the DOHA hearing that he stopped
his sexual actions when she told him to stop. Applicant testified at the DOHA hearing that
he was wrong to make the Classmate feel “uncomfortable.” Applicant was charged and
convicted  of  Wrongful  Sexual  Conduct  in  violation  of  Article  120  of  the  UCMJ.  His
conviction was upheld on appeal.  Applicant did not acknowledge that his conduct was
criminal. (Tr. at 22-24, 45-46, 50-51; GE 7 at 3; GE 9 at 2, 8.)
1.e. November 2011  Arrest for Assault by Battery and  Attempted  Sexual Contact
in violation  of  Articles  128  and  120,  respectively, of the  UCMJ. After a night of drinking
alcohol  at  a  bar  in  November  2011,  Applicant  returned  to  the  Academy  campus  with
friends from the Academy, including a former classmate (FC) who had passed out in the
bathroom  of  the  bar.  FC  had  no  memory  of  what  happened  after  she  passed  out.
Applicant and his friends carried FC to a dormitory room. The classmates left Applicant
and  FC  alone  in  the  room,  and  he  locked  the  door.  The  classmates  returned  and
demanded  that Applicant open  the  door. An  altercation  ensued  between  the  classmates
and  Applicant when  the  classmates found  the  lights were  off  in the  room. The  classmates
found   FC   unresponsive  with   her jeans   unbuttoned   unzipped   and  her shirt  pulled   up   to
chest  level.  An  ambulance  was  called,  and  FC  was taken  to  a  hospital. In  the  investigation
of the  incident, Applicant denied  that he  touched  FC, but claimed he was too  intoxicated
to   be   certain.  He   admitted   that  he   kissed   her  earlier  in  the   evening   while   she   was
incoherent.  His overall  version  of the  events  that  evening  developed  in  the  investigation
significantly   differed   in   critical  details  from   the   appellate   court’s  recitation   of  the   facts
developed  at the  court-martial. At one  point, Applicant  provided  a  statement in which  he
acknowledged   getting   into   bed   with   FC,   who   was   passed   out.   He   commented   that   “I
strongly  believe   its   possible”  that  he   unbuttoned   FC’s  jeans,  “but  I   am   not  100%  sure
because I cannot recall those events.” At the  DOHA hearing, Applicant denied he kissed
FC   and   he   otherwise  did  not  recall   what  he   did  with   FC   that  evening.   Applicant  was
charged  and  convicted  of  punching  both  classmates and  choking  one of them.  Applicant
was  also   charged   with   and   convicted   of   unwanted   sexual   conduct  with   FC,  including
kissing  her when  she  was incoherent. His convictions under  UCMJ Articles 80  and  128
were  upheld  on  appeal. See  SOR ¶ 1.c,  infra. (Tr. at 17-20, 41-45,  50-51;  GE  6  at  1-2;
GE 7  at 2; GE 8  at 2, 3.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline  D, Sexual Behavior)
In the Answer, Applicant admitted with clarifications the two allegations under this
guideline. The record evidence supports the following findings with respect to the matters
alleged in paragraph 2 of the SOR:
2.a.  The  SOR  cross  alleges  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.e  under  Guideline  D  in  this
subparagraph.
2.b.  Current  registration  as  a  Sex  Offender in  State  1.  Applicant was required to
register as a Sex Offender as a result of his court-martial convictions. He registered in
State 1 on June 22, 2012, and his registration requirement expires on June 22, 2027. He
claimed at the hearing that, due to a change in the laws of State 1, he was eligible to have
his name removed from the registration list at that time.  (Tr. at 25, 57; GE 3 at 7.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption)
In the Answer, Applicant admitted with clarifications the two allegations under this
guideline. The record evidence supports the following findings with respect to the matters
alleged in paragraph 3 of the SOR:
3.a. Alcohol Consumption during  the  period  October 2011 to at least March 2019.
All of Applicant’s criminal conduct alleged in paragraph 1 of the SOR was preceded by
his  significant  use  of  alcohol  resulting  in  his  intoxication.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
admitted that he, at times, consumed alcohol in excess during the period alleged, but not
during the entire period. (Tr. at 25-26, 50.)
3.b. April 2019  Alcohol  Counseling. Applicant testified that he was ordered, by the
court  in  the  criminal  case  arising  from  his  March  2019  arrest,  to  abstain  from  drinking
alcohol for 90 days. He stated that he complied with this court order. Applicant claimed
that  his  participation  in  the  counseling  class  was  voluntary  and  that  he  completed  the
counseling. In a letter addressed to Applicant’s criminal defense attorney, dated April 29,
2019, the alcohol counselor wrote that Applicant “appeared to accept responsibility for his
behavior [on the day of his March 2019 arrest.]” The counselor noted that Applicant had
decided  to  abstain  from  any  further  use  of  alcohol  effective  the  night  of  his  arrest.
Applicant attended four individual counseling sessions. This letter was submitted to the
court.  At  the  DOHA  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  no  longer drinks  alcohol to  the
extent he used to drink before his 2019 arrest. He refined his comment about his drinking
habits to say that he only consumes alcohol on rare occasions, such as at a wedding.
(Answer at 6; Tr. at 26-27, 33-34, 56; AE A.)
Paragraph 4  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
In the Answer, Applicant admitted with clarifications the single allegation under this
guideline.  The  SOR  cross  alleges  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.e  under  Guideline  E  in  this
paragraph.
Mitigation and Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant provided extensive evidence in mitigation and in support of a favorable
whole-person  assessment.  I  have  carefully  reviewed  all  of  the  evidence  and  note  the
following specific items:
Applicant provided a written statement of his intent to  modify his drinking habits
and attend counseling.  He also  wrote that he  understood  that any inappropriate future
involvement  with  alcohol  may  be  grounds  for  the  revocation  of  his  national  security
eligibility, if granted to him. Applicant provided no evidence of any alcohol counseling or
treatment subsequent to the four sessions in March and April 2019.
In addition, Applicant provided six character-reference letters. A former classmate
at  the  Academy  wrote  a  letter  prior  to  Applicant’s  2019  arrest  praising  Applicant’s
“determination and perseverance  to  reach  his  goal of  becoming  an  engineer.”  He also
wrote that he has been impressed by Applicant’s “unwavering devotion to overcoming his
past.” In an undated letter, Applicant’s former girlfriend praised his character and “ability
to be respectful.” She commented that Applicant “did not allow his past to determine who
he is, and it is not an accurate reflection of what he will be in life.” A friend of ten years
wrote that Applicant is passionate and determined to reach his goals. Applicant’s fiancée
wrote  two  letters  that  were  submitted  into  the  record.  In  her  most  recent  letter,  she
commented that the couple recently purchased a home.  She wrote  that Applicant  was
completely  transparent  before  they  began  their  dating  relationship  about  his  past
problems that are the subject of the SOR allegations. She also confirmed that Applicant
no  longer  abuses  alcohol.  She  describes  Applicant  as  “a  respected  member  of  his
community,  both  personally  and  professionally.”  A  longtime  close  friend  also  praised
Applicant’s  outgoing  personality  and  willingness  to  help  others.  This  friend  also
commented on Applicant’s perseverance.  (AE F at 3-5; AE S; AE BB at 1-3.)
Applicant also submitted a lengthy letter from a licensed clinical social worker (the
LCSW), who described the incidents leading up to Applicant’s court-martial and provided
her  analysis  of  Applicant’s  qualifications  under  the  adjudicative  guidelines  for  Alcohol
Consumption  and  Sexual Behavior.  Her recitation of  the  facts  was sometimes  at odds
with the facts set forth in the official records submitted by the Government. Her version of
the  facts  was generally  quite  favorable  to  Applicant,  minimizing  the  seriousness of  his
actions.  Applicant  specifically  denied  to  the  LCSW  that  he  had  ever  “engaged  in  any
sexual assault.” Also, he only reported to the LCSW one incident at the Academy and
advised her that he had  “blacked  out” after excessive alcohol consumption and did not
recall the details of the incident, which occurred in November 2011 and is the basis for
the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.e. The LCSW wrote in her letter that despite his court-martial
conviction and the adverse decision on appeal, Applicant still maintains that he is innocent
of all of the charges. She wrote that the accusations against him were “unfounded.” She
explained in another part of her letter that Applicant believes he was set up by a classmate
who was acting as a confidential informant. The LCSW concluded that despite Applicant’s
history,  he  has  “no  probability  of  sexual  addiction”  or  “alcohol  use  disorder.”  He  also
denied to the LCSW that he assaulted the Driver in 2019. (AE P at 3-8.)
The LCSW also reported that according to Applicant he has never engaged in any
habitual or binge consumption of alcohol. He advised the LCSW that, as of the date of his
November 2021 interview with her, he drinks alcohol two to four times a month and drinks
three to four drinks when he does consume alcohol. (AE P at 5, 8.)
Applicant also submitted evidence of his community involvement, specifically with
an orphanage founded by his parents in the country of his birth.  He is a member of the
Board and assists with fundraising, among other activities. (AE H, AE Y, AE Z.)
