Applicant  is  a   46-year-old  senior  manager  of  pricing   and   estimating,   who   has
been  employed  by a  defense  contractor since May  2009. (GE  1;  AE  B;  AE E; Tr.  16,  21-
23) He  has successfully held a  Secret clearance  since  2000.  He was granted  his most
recent clearance in 2011.  Applicant seeks to  not  only  retain his eligibility for a clearance,
which  is a  requirement  of his continued  employment,  but also to  upgrade  his clearance
from   Secret  to   Top   Secret.   (GE   1;   Tr.  16-17,   23-24,  49,  60-61)   He  has   worked   in
support of the  defense  and aerospace industry  for  the past 34  years.  (AE B)
Applicant graduated from high school in May 1995. He was awarded a Bachelor
of Science degree in business administration and finance cum laude in May 1999. (GE
1; AE F; Tr. 17-18) He married in August 2009, and has three children, two daughters,
ages 11 and 9, and a son, age 5. (GE 1; AE D; Tr. 19) From 2013 to 2016, Applicant’s
wife  was  a  stay-at-home  mom;  from  2016  to  2020,  she  was  a  part-time  fitness
instructor;  and  she  recently  began  a  part-time  job  as  an  elementary  school  substitute
teacher. (Tr. 54-55)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  self-reported  marijuana  use  on  his  February 22,  2022  SF-86. (GE  1; Tr.
46)  He   was   subsequently  interviewed   on   April  8,  2022,  by  an   Office  of  Personnel
Management   (OPM)   investigator  regarding   his  marijuana   use.   He   provided   additional
information   regarding  such   use   in   his  September  29,   2022   Response   to   DOHA
Interrogatories,  in  his  December 22, 2022  SOR Answer,  as well as  during his  testimony.
(SOR Answer; GE 2) The following  findings  summarize  that marijuana  use.
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
about May 1995 to about November 2020,  to include use after being granted a Secret
clearance by the Department of Defense in approximately January 2011.
He  admitted  this  allegation  in  part  and  denied  it  in  part.  In  his  SOR  Answer,
submitted through counsel, he stated:
[Applicant]   admits  to   using   marijuana   sparingly,  approximately   two  (2)
dozen  times  from  May  1995  to  his last and  most  recent use  in  November
2020.  [Applicant]   voluntarily   disclosed   his  past  marijuana   use   on   his   first
[Applicant’s]  personnel  subject
SF-86   application
in   2000,  During
interview,  he   was  subsequently  asked   about  his  drug   use.  Candidly,
[Applicant]  explained  that he  had  smoked  marijuana  approximately  two  (2)
dozen  times since  1995. [Applicant]  was forthright with  his responses and
also  indicated   that   he   had   not   used   any   other   illegal   drugs,  other  than
marijuana   and   had   never  tested   positive  on   any  drug   test.  Given   the
infrequent nature of [Applicant’s] use  over such  a  long  period  of  time  (over
20   years)  he   could   not  recall   the   specific  details  of  each   use.   [Applicant]
was also  candid  regarding  his most recent use  in November 2020.  During
this  time, it  was over Thanksgiving  weekend, and  he  smoked  marijuana  at
a  family gathering  with  his wife’s sister and  her husband. This was  a  lapse
in judgment  on  the  part  of  [Applicant]  and he  has not  used  any  drugs since
November 2020,  a  period  of  over two  (2) years. He also  has  no  intention
to  use  illegal drugs in the  future  as  shown  through  his signed statement  of
intent   and   negative   drug   tests.   [Applicant]   takes  full   responsibility   for  his
actions  and   poor  judgment  he   exhibited   over  two   (2)  years  ago   over
Thanksgiving   weekend.  He  has   taken   several  steps  to  ensure   similar
conduct  is not  repeated  in the  future through  a  favorable  substance  abuse
evaluation   and   taking   an   online   drug   and   alcohol   awareness  course.
(December  22, 2022 SOR Answer, pgs. 7-8)
Applicant  confirmed  his  marijuana  use  during  his  testimony.  His  first  marijuana
use  occurred  at  a  party  in  May  1995  when  he  was  18  years  old.  He  did  not  recall
specific  details  of  his  marijuana  use  over  the  years  given  the  time  lapses  between
infrequent  use.  Friends  or  acquaintances  provided  him  with  marijuana  on  the  rare
occasions that he did use it. (Tr. 25-27, 46-47, 56-58) Since he started working for his
current employer in 2009, Applicant estimated he used marijuana  “approximately once
every  other  year”  at  social  gatherings.  (Tr.  28-29,  47,  56-58)  Marijuana  is  legal  in
Applicant’s  state  of  residence  under state  law,  but  not  under federal law.  He  does  not
have  a  medical  marijuana  card,  nor  has  he  ever  purchased  marijuana  from  a
dispensary. He did not reimburse any of his friends or acquaintances for the marijuana
they provided him. (Tr. 48)
As  noted,  Applicant’s  last  use  of  marijuana  occurred  in  November  2020.  His
from  out  of  town  over
sister-in-law,  her  husband,  and  children  were  visiting
Thanksgiving weekend. Applicant’s wife and her sister have “a complicated relationship”
and  had  “a  pretty  intense  argument”  in  front  of  the  children  on  Thanksgiving  Day.
Applicant’s  in-laws  had  marijuana  in  their  possession  that  they  had  legally  purchased
from a dispensary. On the Saturday evening after Thanksgiving, the four adults smoked
marijuana  after  the  children  had  gone  to  bed.  Applicant  “unfortunately”  did  not  think
about  his  clearance  at  the  time  of  consumption.  He  had  not  worked  on  any  classified
projects up until that point. (Tr. 29-32)
Applicant has not been offered any marijuana since November 2020 and has no
intention  of  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  Since  then,  Applicant  has  not  been  in  any
environment  where  drugs  were  involved.  He  understands  holding  a  clearance  is  a
privilege  and  understands  that  those  who  are  extended  that  privilege  are  required  to
abide by all the rules and regulations. He further understands that clearance holders are
required  to  abide  by  all  the  rules  and  regulations  outside  of  work  as  well.  Applicant
stated that he will never use marijuana again. (Tr. 32-34) He elaborated:
The risks of using marijuana  again is just –  is –  the  consequences of doing
so   are  too   great.   I   have   a   much   –   much   firmer  understanding   of  the
consequences  of  what  –   of  what  doing  that  kind  of thing  will  do. It  will  be
detrimental to  my  career. It  will  be  detrimental to  my ability to  provide  for
my  family.  Furthermore,  I  am   on   a  program   right  now where  I  do   access
classified   information   on   a   need-to-know  basis.  The   responsibilities  that
you   just  outlined   that  come   with   the   privilege   of  having   a   security
clearance,  I   guess  they  are  –   they   are  in   the   forefront   of   my   mind   each
and   every   single   day.  I   –   I  am   reminded   on   a   daily  basis   that  I   am
accessing   classified   information,   that  I   have   a   responsibility   to   safeguard
that  information, so  nothing  to  –  I just  simply don’t want to  do  anything  that
could in  any  way,  shape  or form  jeopardize  my ability to  continue  growing
in my current career path. (Tr. 34)
Applicant’s wife does not use marijuana. She fully supports his abstinence from
marijuana. He does not have any friends or acquaintances who use marijuana. If any of
his  friends  or  acquaintances  ever  did  offer  him  marijuana,  his answer  would  be  a  firm
hard, “No. Please keep it away from me.” (Tr. 48-49, 55-56) He understands that even
though  marijuana  is  legal  in  his  state  of  residence,  its  possession  and  use  are  illegal
under federal law. (Tr. 52)
Applicant  was  queried  regarding  an  October  18,  1999  subject  interview
statement  in  which  he  stated  that  he  had  no  intentions  of  using  illegal  drugs  in  the
future.  He  was  22  years  old  in  October  1999.  (Tr.  35-36,  56;  GE  5)  He  confirmed  his
testimony that he does not intend to use drugs in the future and explained the difference
between “then and now”:
A  couple of things (are  different).  Number one, I just received  a  –  received
a   promotion   where  I  am   supporting   a   classified   program.  I  –   again,   I’m
accessing  classified  information  on  a daily basis. In  order to  keep  my job, I
need  to  be  granted  a  Top  Secret  clearance  to  get to  my next  caveat  [sic]
of  –   of   program   –
level  clearance.  The   consequences   of   –   the
consequences  of  not  doing  that –  that transgression  of  smoking  marijuana
could  cause   or  just   –   it’s  just   too   great  of   a   price   to   pay.  It’s  not  –   it  is
absolutely positively, no way worth the risk.
Other  thing  that has changed  between  then  and  now, I am  married. I now
have  a  family. I’m  the  sole breadwinner of  my family. So  providing  income
for my wife  and  three  children  is probably my –  my number one  priority in
life  and  doing  anything  to  jeopardize  my ability to  do  that is not something
I’m willing to do, especially something  like smoking  marijuana.
I  think  the   other –   the   other thing  that  has  changed   since   1999   to   today,
this  whole   experience,  reading   the   Statement   of   Reasons,   hiring   you,
coming   into   this  courtroom   for  this   –   this  hearing  today,   I  have   an
absolutely crystal  clear  understanding  of what the  consequences of  that –
of those  actions are going  to  be, I think. Past transgressions, I lost  sight of
the   consequences.   Being   so   firmly  aware   of  what   they  are  now,  I  –   I
cannot  imagine   ever  doing   it  again.   I  don’t  –   I  don’t  want   to   ever  do   this
again. I don’t want to  ever see  a  Statement  of  Reasons again. I  don’t want
to  ever be  in this courtroom again.  To be frank  with you.  (Tr. 36-37)
Applicant affirmed that he has grown as an individual over the past 30 years and
learned  from  his  past  mistakes.  (Tr.  37-38)  His  November  2020  use  of  marijuana
occurred as a result of a stressful family situation. Since then, he has adopted a more
disciplined approach to physical exercise, that he has “found is probably my single best
thing I do to help cope with stress,” and spends more time with his children. (Tr. 38-39)
Applicant  submitted  a  signed,  sworn,  statement  of  intent,  dated  November  11,
2022, to avoid any future drug use or other illegal drugs both presently and in the future,
with the understanding that any drug violation will result in the  automatic revocation of
clearance.  (Tr.  39-40;  AE  I)  He  completed  a  four-hour  drug  and  alcohol  awareness
class  on  December 9, 2022, a four-hour behavior modification  class  on December 10,
2022,  and  a  four-hour  marijuana  education  class  on  December  10,  2022.  (Tr.  40-41;
AE  K  - AE  M)  A  highly  credentialed  licensed  psychologist  (LP)  completed  a
comprehensive  substance  abuse  evaluation  of  Applicant.  LP’s  summary  of  the
psychological evaluation, dated December 14, 2022, states in part:
It   appears,  however,   that   the   Top   Secret   investigative   process  gave
[Applicant]  pause  to  reflect  on  his marijuana  use. He took time  to  process
the   matter   in  an   intentional  mindful   way  that  brought   him   to   new   insight
about  it.  He  then   acted   by  disclosing   his   past  drug   use   despite   the
possible   consequences  for  his  career.  As  the   process  progressed   to   an
SOR,  the  gravity of the  situation  seems to  have  set  in for him. In  colloquial
terms,   [Applicant]   is  sufficiently   “freaked   out”   by  the   potential   loss   of   his
clearance,  his job,  and  his financial security that it  now seems exceedingly
unlikely he will ever use marijuana again.
CONCLUSION: Based  on  all  the  available data, [Applicant]  does  not have
any  substance   use   condition   or  behavioral  tendencies  that  could  impact
his  reliability,   trustworthiness,   or   judgment   in   the   context   of   safeguarding
classified  information  or working  in  a  cleared  setting. (Tr. 41-42; AE  N, AE
O)
Applicant submitted negative drug tests for urine samples collected on December
6,  2022,  December  20,  2022,  February  13,  2023,  February  28,  2023,  and  March  13,
2023. (AE J, AE O) Applicant has never been disciplined by his employer. He considers
himself to be an honest and trustworthy person with high moral character. He does not
consider  himself  to  be  a  threat  to  national  security  and  could  not  be  coerced  into
divulging national security secrets based on the SOR allegations. Applicant’s employer
promotes a drug-free workplace. Apart from the entry level drug test he took in 2009, he
has not been drug tested by his employer. He has never used drugs while at work or on
company property. (Tr. 52-54; GE 4)
Character  Evidence
Applicant  submitted  his  most  recent  work  performance  reviews  from  2019  to
2021. Those reviews document sustained superior performance and rate him as a “top
performer.”  Management  views  him  as  a  subject  matter  expert  and  placed  him  in
leadership  roles  and  positions  of  responsibility.  Applicant  is  a  trusted  employee  within
his company as well as with his company’s customer base. (AE H)
Applicant  was  awarded  a  global  credential  in  project  management  professional
certificate  on  December  15,  2017.  He  was  also  awarded  a  professional  certificate  in
project management by a state university on December 13, 2018, for having completed
a curriculum of 210 hours of study. (AE G)
Applicant  submitted  six  work-related  reference  letters  from  managers  and
directors or former directors in his employer’s corporation.  All of these individuals are or
were senior company executives. They have worked with Applicant and know him well.
They  are  also  familiar  with  his  SOR  allegation  and  self-reported  marijuana  use.  The
collective sense of these letters conveys a number of positive attributes, to include his
integrity, trustworthiness, work ethic, value to the company, contribution to the national
fully  support  the
defense,  dedication,  and  valuable  service.  These
continuation and upgrade of Applicant’s security clearance. (AE C, AE P; Tr. 58-61)
individuals
