Applicant is 33 years old.  He is divorced with no children.  He has a Bachelor’s
of  Science  degree  in  Business  Administration.  He  holds  the  position  of  Principal
Logistics  Management  Analyst.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  seven  creditors  for  charged-off
delinquent consumer accounts totaling approximately $38,000.  In his answer, Applicant
denies each of the allegations set forth in the SOR, explaining that he has either been
making  payments  to  resolve  the  debt, or he has  already  resolved it.  Credit  reports of
the  Applicant  dated  April  4,  2020;  December  12,  2020;  and  August  10,  2023,  confirm
that  at  one  time  he  was  indebted  to  each  of  the  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR.
(Government Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant began working for a defense contractor in 2009, the same year he got
married.  Throughout his marriage, Applicant’s employment provided the only source of
income for the household.  He not only supported himself and his wife, but at times he
also provided for several of his wife’s family members.  Applicant and his wife enjoyed
spending  beyond  their  comfort  zone,  and  in  the  past  have  had  to  borrow  between
$12,000 and $15,000 from  his 401K to pay-off their debts.  In 2016, Applicant and his
wife separated.  Even after their separation, Applicant continued to pay for his wife’s car
and for some of her bills.  Their divorce was final in December 2022.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit G.)
As  a  result  of  excessive  spending  during  his  marriage,  the  following  delinquent
debts are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $12,969.  This  is  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  and  his  ex-wife
used for living expenses.  Since 2018, when Applicant set up a payment plan with the
creditor, he has been making regular monthly payments of $100 to resolve the debt. He
has  reduced  the  debt  and  currently  owes  approximately  $6,700.
(Applicant’s  Post-
Hearing  Exhibit  A,  and  Tr.  pp.  22  - 23.)  He  plans  to  continue  making  the  monthly
payments until the debt is resolved.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that has been charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $8,874.  This  is  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  used  to  support
himself  and  to  purchase  household  items.
(Tr.  p.  24.)  Applicant  entered  into  a
settlement arrangement and followed it.  Applicant’s last payment of $334 owed on the
account was made on October 15, 2021.  This settled the debt in full.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit B.)
1.c.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that has been charged off in the
approximate amount of $5,590.  This is a credit card that Applicant and his wife used to
pay  for  gas  and  living  expenses.  Applicant  has  for  some  time  been  making  regular
monthly  payments  in  the  amount  of  $200  monthly  to  resolve  the  account.  As  of
September 21, 2023, Applicant has reduced the debt, and currently owes approximately
(Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  C,  and  Tr.  p.  25.)  He  plans  to  continue
$4,665.
making the monthly payments until the debt is resolved.
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that has been charged off in the
approximate amount of $2,956.  This is a credit card that Applicant used for car repairs,
oil changes, and other expenses.  Applicant entered into a settlement arrangement and
followed  it.  He  made  payments  of  $74.60  on  a  monthly  basis  until  the  debt  was
resolved in full on August 4, 2022.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit D.)
1.e.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account  that has been  charged  off  in
the approximate amount of $2,323.  This is a car loan that Applicant took out during his
marriage.  When he separated from is wife, he let her keep the car.  Applicant continued
to  make  payments  as  best  he  could.  He  recently  reduced  the  debt  to  $1,723.
(Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  E,  and  Tr.  p.  27.)  He  plans  to  continue  making  the
monthly payments until the debt is resolved.
1.f.     Applicant  was indebted to a creditor for an account that has been  charged off in
the  approximate  amount  of  $335.  This  was  for  jewelry  that  Applicant  purchased.
Applicant stated that he resolved the debt in full in December 2020.  (Tr. p. 27.)  He has
tried to obtain documentation from the creditor but has been unsuccessful.
1.g.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account  that has been  charged  off  in
the approximate amount of $5,371.  This is a lending club loan that Applicant took out in
2010  to  pay  for  household  expenses.  Applicant  made  regular  monthly  payments  to
resolve the debt and by June 21, 2023, he has reduced it to $3,271.  (Tr. p. 28.) A letter
from  the  collection  agency  dated  August  8,  2023,  indicates  that  they  received  a
payment of $1,000 from the Applicant on July  31, 2023, and the debt is  settled in full.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit F.)
Applicant has addressed each of his delinquent debts.  He is now living within his
means.  He has set up a financial budget that he is following to prevent overspending in
the  future.  After  paying  his  regular  monthly  expenses,  and  the  remaining  monthly
payments  towards  his  few  delinquent  debts,  sometimes  he  has  some  discretionary
money  left over,  and some times he  does  not.  He  explained  that  his  new girlfriend  is
financially  responsible.  She  works for the  same  defense  contractor  that  he  does,  she
lives  within  her  means  at  all  times,  and  she  holds  a  security  clearance.  They  live
together  now,  and  share  financial  responsibilities  in  the  household,  including  the
mortgage  payment.  Staying  financially  responsible  is  key  to  their  relationship.
Applicant  is  no  longer  the  sole  supporter  of  the  household.  Applicant  earns  about
$90,000 annually.  His girlfriend earns about $130,000 annually, and she contributes to
the mortgage and household expenses.  Applicant has about $150,000 in his 401k.
According to Applicant’s divorce decree, he will soon be giving his ex-wife about
$30,000  from  his 401k.  He  has about $1,200  in his savings  account,  and $500  in  his
checking  account.  He  is  now  focused  on  living  more  frugally  and  being  financially
responsible.
Applicant was hired by his current employer in 2009 as an Electronic Technician.
Over the years, he has received promotions and raises and other job opportunities due
to his hard work and diligence.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit H.)
