Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegation  in  ¶  2.a,  but  in  his  explanation,  he
essentially  denied  the  falsification allegation. He  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶ 1.a
and 1.b, but essentially admitted the factual aspect except he disputed the timeline that
was  alleged.  He  denied  SOR  ¶  2.b.  His  partial  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2000 and a  master’s
degree  in 2010.  He married  in 2006 and has  two minor children. He  has  worked for a
federal contractor since 2013. He obtained a security clearance in approximately 2011.
(Items 2, 3)
In  March  2011,  Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF 86). Section 23 asked Applicant if in the last seven years he had used any
illegally controlled substances, such as marijuana. He responded “no.” (Item 6)
In  August 2021, Applicant  completed  another SF 86.  In  response to  Section  23
about any illegal drug use in the last seven years, he responded that from March 2014 to
July 2020 he used “THC.” He stated, “Recreational use. A few times in a year. Maybe 10-
20 times in the last 7 years.” He also admitted that he used marijuana while possessing
a security clearance. He stated that he no longer used it because he did not enjoy the
effect. (Item 2)
In October 2021, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He later
authenticated  and  adopted  the  summary  of  interview  in  his  interrogatories.  He  did  not
make any changes to the summary of interview. During the interview he was questioned
about his past drug usage. He was asked about his drug usage during the past seven
years, and he told the investigator that the only illegal drug he had used in the past was
marijuana. He said he only used it by himself. He said he only used marijuana for the
purpose of reducing joint pain and inflammation. He said because he is a long-distance
runner, the running leads to inflammation and  joint pain and that he used marijuana to
alleviate the pain and inflammation. He estimated that he only used marijuana about 10
to 20 times. He said he had never used any other drugs. He obtained the marijuana from
a former friend. He last used marijuana in July 2020. He has never been diagnosed for
drug abuse or participated in drug counseling or treatment. He said that his use had never
affected his behavior. He does not socialize or associate with individuals who use drug
illegally. He stated he is not likely to ever use or be involved with marijuana or any illegal
drugs in the future. He no longer enjoys marijuana because he had negative side effects
from his last use. (Item 4)
In October 2022, Applicant completed another SF 86. In response to the Section
23 question which asked if in the last seven years had Applicant illegally used any drugs
or controlled  substances, he  responded  “no.” Section  23  also  asked, “Have  you  EVER
illegally  used  or  otherwise  been  illegally  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance
while possessing a security clearance other than previously listed? Applicant responded
“no.” (Item 3)
Applicant was re-interviewed by a government investigator in January 2023. In his
interrogatories, he authenticated his statement to the investigator and did not make any
changes. He was asked if he had been involved with using illegal drugs in the past seven
years. He responded “no.” He was asked when he last used marijuana and he responded
it was more than seven years ago, so he was not required to report it on his SF 86. He
told  the  investigator that  his last  use  was  in  2014.  He  was  asked  if  he  held  a  security
clearance  when  he  used  marijuana  in  2014  and  he  responded  yes.  He  said  he  used
marijuana about three times between 2011 and 2014. He smoked dried flowers in a pipe.
He would use it for joint pain he experienced from being a long-distance runner. He told
the investigator that he did not use marijuana in any other form and  had not used any
other  illegal  substance  or  misused  prescription  medication  while  holding  a  security
clearance. He said he was provided the marijuana but could not recall by whom. (Item 4)
Applicant further told the investigator that he first used marijuana in 1996 while in
college and shortly after college about five times a year until 2011. He would smoke it
with a pipe. He told the investigator that he never used marijuana in any other form such
as oils or edibles. He is no longer in contact with any of  the people he used marijuana
with during this period. (Item 4)
Applicant told the investigator that he had not used marijuana since 2014 and had
no intention to use it in the future. He reiterated that he used it for joint pain. He said he
never used marijuana while working. He explained that he did not disclose his use on his
most recent SF 86 because he believed he only had to report his marijuana use for the
past seven years, not ever. He said his omission was unintentional. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s response to government interrogatories, he was asked the following
question:
Under FEDERAL  Law (understanding  that marijuana  is not legal Federally)
have   you   ever  illegally   USED  any   drug  or  control  substance   any
narcotic,  depressant,  stimulant,   hallucinogen   (to   include   LSD  or  PCP)
and/or any Cannabis (to include  marijuana, CBD and hashish) or misused
any prescription medication?
He  responded   “yes”  and   listed   his  marijuana   use   from   August   1996   to   April  2014.   He
reported   his  frequency   of  use   was  one   to   two   times  a   year.  He  did   not  intend   to   use
marijuana in  the future. He stated,
The  frequency  of  use  specified  above  does  not  apply to  all  years between
the  first and  last  use  dates, and  instead  represent  a  loose  estimate  of an
average   frequency  over  the   specified   time   period.  There  were,  in   fact,   a
number of years that involved zero marijuana  use. (Item 4)
This question specifically requests disclosure of  cannabidiols (CBD). He did not
disclose any CBD use.1
SOR  ¶ 1.a alleged Applicant used marijuana with  varying frequency  from about
1996 to about July 2020. SOR ¶ 1.b alleged he used marijuana with varying frequency
1  The  Security  Executive Agent for the  United  States  Government provided  clarifying  guidance concerning
marijuana on December 21, 2021. Part of that guidance addressed CBD products:
With  respect  to  the   use  of   CBD   products,  agencies   should  be  aware   that  using  these
cannabis   derivatives   may   be   relevant  to  adjudications   in  accordance  with  SEAD  4.
Although  the  passage  of  the Agricultural  Improvement  Act  of  2018  excluded  hemp  from
the   definition   of  marijuana   within  the  Controlled   Substances   Act,  products   containing
greater   than  a  0.3  percent  concentration   of   delta-9  tetrahydrocannabinol   (THC),  a
psychoactive  ingredient  in   marijuana,  do   not  meet the definition  of “hemp.” Accordingly,
products  labeled  as  hemp-derived  that contain  greater  than 0.3 percent  THC  continue  to
meet the  legal  definition of marijuana, and  therefore remain illegal  to use under  federal  law
and policy. Additionally, agencies  should be  aware that the  Federal  Drug Administration
does   not  certify   levels   of  THC  in  CBD  products,  so  the   percentage  of  THC  cannot  be
guaranteed, thus  posing  a  concern pertaining  to  the use of  a  CBD product  under  federal
law. Studies  have shown that some CBD products  exceed the 0.3  percent THC threshold
for hemp, notwithstanding  advertising  labels  (Reference F). Therefore, there  is  a  risk  that
using  these products  may  nonetheless  cause sufficiently  high  levels  of THC to result in a
positive  marijuana  test  under   agency-administered  employment  or  random   drug  testing
programs.  Should an  individual  test  positive,  they  will  be  subject to an  investigation  under
specific guidelines established by their home  agency.
The  Substance Abuse and  Mental  Health Services  Administration  (SAMSHA)  provided a warning
about CBD products on July 24, 2019:
Studies   have   shown  that   some   CBD  products’   labeling  does   not   accurately   reflect  their
content.  Cannabis   based   products   containing   a  THC  level   greater  than   0.3%   on   a  dry
weight basis do not fall under the Farm Bill’s definition  of hemp even if they are labeled as
such.  In   one   study,   the  amount  of  CBD   in   69%   of   the   84   tested   CBD   products   was
inconsistent with  that on  the label, and  some products  contained unlabeled  cannabinoids,
including   THC  in  amounts   up   to  6.4   mg/ml.  As   such,  an   employee’s   drug  test  may   be
positive  for   the  THC   metabolite,   delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol-9-carboxylic   acid  (THCA),
due to THC in the  CBD product.
SAMSHA further advised that “federal  agencies should make every  effort to inform applicants  and
employees  of the risk that using such products may result in a positive marijuana test.”
from about April 2011, to about July 2020, while granted access to classified information.
(Item 1)
Applicant denied  SOR ¶ 1.a  based  on  the  dates. He  admitted  to  using  marijuana
infrequently between  1996  and  2014. He stated  in his SOR answer that he  did not report
his use  on  his SF 86 because it was outside the seven-year period. He stated,
When  answering  the  e-QIP  questionnaire  in 2021, I collectively referred  to
both  marijuana  usage  in  2014  (which was within the  specified  7  year window
at that time) and  CBD marijuana  usage  for a  recurring  autoimmune  health
issue  that would periodically flare up  during  periods of intense  training  for
marathon   races  and   cause   severe  joint   pain.   This  continued   until
approximately July 2020. At that time,  I discontinued  CBD usage  and  sought
treatment from  a  rheumatoid specialist and  have  submitted  record  of one  of
several appointment. (Item 2)
Applicant further stated in his SOR answer the following:
Further,  I  did  not  include   CBD  marijuana   usage   because   the   general
perception  of,  and  stance  on, CBD marijuana  has been  continually evolving
in recent years.  Given  the  growing  popularity of CBD  usage  for  health  and
wellness, the  determination  of  how  to  distinguish between  it and  other forms
of marijuana  usage  has shifted  and  has made  answering  these  questions
challenging.  In  retrospect,  I  sincerely  regret  omitting  CBD usage  in  my 2022
e-QIP   questionnaire   and   2023   interview.   I  now  recognize  that  this
information   should  have   been   disclosed   in  the   interest   of  transparency.
(Item  2)
In his SOR answer, Applicant provided a timeline of his drug use:
1996-2002: Occasional marijuana usage while attending college and post-
graduation.
2003-2012: No usage of marijuana.
2012-2014:
ups.
2014-2020: Periodic usage of CBD during intense training and rheumatic
flare-ups.
Infrequent  usage  of marijuana  during  periods  of  rheumatic flare-
Applicant stated in his SOR answer to allegation ¶ 1.b the following:
Again,  I  deny this statement  due  to  the  end  date. As  explained  in  [¶] 1.a,  I
admit  to  using  marijuana  very infrequently from  2012  to  2014  while granted
access to  classified  information. This usage  was tied  to  periodic rheumatic
flare-ups that  occurred  during  intense  periods of training  for long-distance
running   races.  These   flare-ups  subsided   for  a   period   of  time   after   2014,
during  which I  ceased  usage  of marijuana. When  the  next flare-up  occurred,
I was able to  obtain  CBD marijuana  and  opted  for that as  I felt it was more
appropriate   therapy  for my  joint  pain  and   didn’t  have   the  unpleasant  and
undesirable aspect of smoke inhalation. By 2020, the CDB medication was
no  longer  effective  and  instead  causes some  dizziness  and  nausea. (Item
2)
SOR ¶ 2.a alleged Applicant falsified his October 2022 SF 86 when he failed to
disclose his marijuana use from 1996 to July 2020 and his use from April 2011 to July
2020, while granted access to classified information. Although he admitted the allegation,
he stated he did not include his CBD usage when responding to his October 2022 SF 86.
He said it was not with the intent to falsify but was an honest change in his understanding
of the classification of CBD. He said it was a judgment call because CDB did not meet
the qualification of a drug or controlled substance. He said his omission was not deliberate
or duplicitous, but instead a result of shifting sentiment towards CBD as a legitimate and
legal  health  and  wellness  treatment.  He  was  aware  that  his  2022  SF  86  would  be
compared to his 2021 SF 86. (Item 1, 2)
Applicant’s explanation in his SOR answer for why he failed to disclose if he had
ever used marijuana while having access to classified information in his October 2022 SF
86 was because the question was different than the one asked on his 2021 SF 86, which
he said only asked about the previous seven years. He said it was an honest oversight
and not an attempt to provide false information. He said he admitted the information when
it was brought to his attention in his 2023 interview. (Item 2)
SOR ¶ 2.b alleged Applicant deliberately falsified material facts during a personal
subject interview conducted in July 2023, when he stated he had not used illegal drugs
or  controlled  substances  in  the  past  seven  years.  Applicant  denied  the  allegation  and
stated  it  was  his  understanding  that  CBD  usage  did  not  qualify  as  an  illegal  drug  or
controlled substance. He said the focus of the interview “was on pure marijuana usage.”
It was only when it was pointed out to him by the investigator that the question asked if
he had “EVER” used marijuana while in possession of a security clearance, to which he
answered he had done so in 2014. Medicinal marijuana has been legal in the state where
Applicant lives since 2013. He did not provide evidence that he had a prescription for it.
(Item 2)
Applicant  provided  a  response  to  the  FORM.  He  disputed  the arguments  in  the
brief provided by Department Counsel.
In his FORM response, Applicant said he “was confused by a few questions that
are  open  to  interpretation,  legal  technicalities  concerning  CBD  and  some  fuzzy
recollections from decades in the past.” He further stated, “An indisputable fact present
in both interpretations is that I used marijuana and CBD a small number of times over a
number  of  years  while  in  possession  of  a  security  clearance.”  Applicant  provided
additional explanations and interpretations to his answer and interview statements.  He
said he should not have used the word “recreational” when describing his marijuana use
but should have said it was therapeutic. He said the interview focused on marijuana usage
such as smoking. He said he always mentioned he used it for joint pain. (AE A)
Applicant  unequivocally  reported  on  his  2021  SF  86  and  during  his  2021
background  interview,  which  was  not  corrected  when  he  responded  to  interrogatories,
that he used marijuana up through July 2020. His later self-serving statements that he
used CBDs, not marijuana, between 2014 and 2021 are not credible. I find that he used
marijuana up through July 2020.
Applicant provided numerous character letters in his SOR answer and response
to  the  FORM.  He  is  described  as  a  person  of  integrity.  He  is  dedicated,  professional,
responsive, dependable, honest, loyal, creative, productive, and reliable. He is tireless in
his work ethic. He is perpetually challenging himself to be a better person. The letters do
not  mention  if  they  are  aware  of  the  specific  allegations  in  the  SOR.  Those  providing
letters recommended that he retain his security clearance. (Item 2, AE B, C, D, E)
