In   Applicant’s   answer to   the   SOR,  he   admitted   the   allegation   in  SOR   ¶   1.c.  He
denied  the  allegations in SOR ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, and  their  cross-allegations in SOR ¶  2.a  and
3.a.  His  admission  is  incorporated in  my findings of fact.
Applicant was employed by a defense contractor from February 2018 to November
2020.  He  was  unemployed  from  November  2020  until  he  was  hired  a  non-federal
employer in July 2021. He has been offered employment by another defense contractor,
contingent on a favorable adjudication of his application for a security clearance. (GX 2
at 1; Hearing Exhibit I)
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from February 2001 to June 2017,
and  received  an  other  than  honorable  discharge.  During  his  Navy  service,  he  was
awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal, two awards of the Navy and
Marine Corps Achievement Medal, three awards of the Navy Good Conduct Medal, and
various service medals and qualification badges. (GX 5 at 4)
Applicant  married  in  August  2003,  divorced  in  April  2010,  and  remarried  in
November 2017. He has two children, ages 18 and 15, from an extramarital relationship.
He is the biological father of the older child. The younger child has the same mother but
another  father,  and  Applicant  adopted  the  younger  child  because  his  mother  was  not
taking  proper  care  of  him.  (Tr.  22)  Applicant  is  an  active  member  of  his  church  and
participates in charitable activities in his community.
Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in December 2020 and a master’s degree
in December 2022. While on active duty, he completed medical training and was certified
as  an  emergency  medical  technician.  (AX  I)  While  serving  aboard  a  Navy  ship,  he
organized a program in which he and fellow sailors participated in the Reading Enhances
All Children (REACH), reading to and mentoring orphan children, at least twice a month
when  they  were  in  port.  He  received a  volunteer service  medal for his efforts.  (Tr. 20;
Response  to  SOR  at  8)  The  medal  apparently  was  a  civilian  award,  because  it  is  not
reflected on his DD 214 (Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty).
In June 2015, while Applicant was serving as a chief petty officer (pay grade E-7)
on  a ship, he was  sexually  involved  with  a  female  sailor  (pay  grade  E-3) who  was his
subordinate. He testified that his sexual relationship with the female sailor continued for
about two years, and that it involved frequent sexual activity in numerous places aboard
the  ship.  (Tr.  32;  GX  2  at  2)  When  he  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in
November  2022,  he  told  the  investigator  that  he  became  sexually  involved  with  his
subordinate because he was lonely and did not exercise the strength to resist his sexual
urges. (GX 2, personal subject interview at 15)
In July 2016, Applicant was charged with rape and sexual assault, in violation of
Article 120, (UCMJ), making a false official statement in violation of Article 107, UCMJ,
and obstructing justice in violation of Article 134, UCMJ. (GX 4) He testified that the sexual
conduct for which he was charged with rape occurred in an office aboard the ship and
while he and the female sailor were both on duty. He maintained that it was consensual.
He testified that when the female sailor told him she was pregnant by another sailor, he
told her that he did not want to be involved in a “love triangle.” (Tr. 15-16, 34.)
The  charge  of  making  a  false  official  statement  arose  when  Applicant  was  five
minutes late for duty as officer of the deck, and he told the chief petty officer whom he
was relieving that he was late because he was performing duties on the flight deck. The
charge of obstructing justice alleged that Applicant asked the sailor by whom the female
seaman was pregnant not to report his actions, and that Applicant attempted to physically
restrain the female sailor’s other sexual partner from reporting them. In March 2017, he
was charged with an additional offense of violating a lawful general order,  i.e., a Navy
regulation prohibiting fraternization with a subordinate, in violation of Article 92, UCMJ.
(GX 5).
After a pretrial hearing, Applicant admitted his guilt of the violations of Articles 107
and  92,  and  he  requested  separation  in  lieu  of  trial  by  court-martial.2  (GX  5  at  3)  His
request  was  granted,  and  all  charges  were  withdrawn  and  dismissed.  He  received  an
other than honorable discharge in June 2017.
In November 2020, Applicant, then employed by another defense contractor, was
terminated for timecard fraud, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. The alleged fraud consisted of taking
paid time off without recording it on his timecard. This job was his first civilian job after
leaving the Navy, and he was unfamiliar with the timecard process. He explained that he
was a salaried employee rather than an hourly employee, and he was not required to log
2 The SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was accused of rape and sexual assault and was indicted by a grand
jury  for  those  charges.  There  is  no  grand  jury  in  cases  processed  under  the  UCMJ.  Instead,  there  is  a
pretrial hearing under Rule for Court-Martial 309(a) or an  investigation under Article 32, UCMJ, or both.
Unlike a grand jury, in which a defendant is not present, an accused military member is entitled to be present
during a pretrial hearing, be represented by counsel, cross-examine witnesses, and present evidence.
in and log out daily. He presented documentary evidence that he had sent his supervisor
email requests for paid time off and received email approval, but he admitted that he did
not enter his paid time off on his timecards. (Tr. 18; 47 GX 3 at 6-7) He admitted that his
pay vouchers listed paid time off used and the unused balances, and that he saw that his
paid time off was not reflected. He testified that when he asked another worker why his
paid  time  off  was  not  reflected  on  his  pay  voucher,  the  other  worker  told  him  that
sometimes it took a month or two before it was reflected on the pay voucher. (Tr. 50) He
admitted that he should have notified his personnel office that his paid time off was not
being reflected on his pay voucher. (Tr. 50) There is no evidence that he was overpaid
because of the inaccurate timecards.
