Applicant  is  42   years  old,  and   unmarried  with   no   children.    He  obtained   a   high
school   diploma   and   completed   some   college.     Applicant   is  employed   by  a   defense
contractor  as  a   Aircraft   Structural  Mechanic.     He   is  seeking   to   obtain   a   security
clearance in connection  with his  employment.
Guideline J  –  Criminal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  criminal  activity  that
creates doubt about a  person’s judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  and  calls  into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that Applicant has engaged in conduct which shows a
lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that
raise  questions  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or
sensitive information.
Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct  that  include  three  Driving  Under  the
Influence  of  Alcohol  (DUI)  convictions,  and  two  convictions  for  Possession  of  a
Controlled Substance, all occurring over an  18-year span.  Applicant admitted each of
the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR,  except  2.a.,  which  he  failed  to  answer,  and  2.b.,
which  he  denied.  Applicant  began  working  for  a  defense  contractor  in  October  2022.
He applied for a security clearance for the first time in November 2022.
Applicant started using marijuana in about 1996, at the early age of 15, while in
high  school.
In  about  May  2005,  he  was  charged  with  Possession  of  a  Controlled
Substance,  (methamphetamine)  and  Possession  of  Marijuana.  Applicant’s  car  was
pulled  over  by  police  and  during  the  search  of  his  vehicle,  they  found  marijuana  and
methamphetamine.  Applicant  claimed  the  methamphetamine  was  not  his.  He  was
(Tr.  p.  21.)  He  was  placed  in  a  diversion
convicted  of  Possession  of  Marijuana.
program  for  the  charge  of  Possession  of  a  Controlled  Substance  and  placed  on
probation for a period of five years.
In  about  June  2007,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  Under the  Influence  of
Alcohol.  Applicant testified that prior to the arrest, he consumed about a case of beer
and a bottle of liquor.  He was convicted of the offense, placed on probation for a period
of  five  years,  and  ordered  to  complete  an  18-month  alcohol  program.  Following  the
arrest,  Applicant  tried  to  stop  drinking  and  was  completely  sober  for  about  one  year.
(Tr. p. 39.)  Then, little by little he returned to heavy drinking.  (Tr. pp. 42-43.)
In  May  2008,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Possession  of  Marijuana.  Applicant
was  in  violation  of  his  five-year  probation  imposed  by  the  court  in  2005  for  his  earlier
conviction.  Applicant was convicted of this offense, and placed on probation for another
five years.
In about October 2009, Applicant was charged with Driving Under the Influence
of  Alcohol.  He  was  convicted  of  the  offense,  placed  on  house  arrest,  placed  on
probation  for  a  period  of  five  years,  and  ordered  to  complete  an  18-month  alcohol
program.  Following this arrest, Applicant stopped drinking for about a year and a half.
(Tr.  p.  44.)  When  he  started  consuming  alcohol  again,  this  time  it  was  different.  He
would  force  himself  not  to  leave  the  house  if  he  was  drinking  alcohol.  He  would  only
buy a six or twelve pack at a time if he went to the store.  This pattern has continued to
the present.  He reduced his alcohol consumption but continued to drink and at time to
excess.
In June 2018, Applicant was charged with Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol.
Applicant  explained  that  he  was  out  of  town  and  went  to  visit  a  friend  who  does  not
drink.  Applicant wanted to relax and celebrate his birthday, so he purchased a six pack
of  beer and  consumed  it.  Later  that  evening,  Applicant  went  to  the  store  to  purchase
another six pack of beer and was pulled over by police.  He was intoxicated at the time.
He was convicted of the offense, ordered to complete a DUI program, and sentenced to
10 days in jail and five years of probation.  He has recently completed probation for the
offense.  Following this arrest, he was able to remain sober for five or six months before
returning to consuming alcohol.  Now, he only drinks socially.
In response to interrogatories dated April 10, 2023, Applicant stated that he last
consumed  alcohol  in  June  2018.  This  statement  is  not  accurate  since  Applicant
returned to  drinking some five or six months following the  2018 arrest for DUI.  (Tr. p.
51.)  He deliberately failed to disclose that he consumed alcohol approximately monthly
and that he continues to consume alcohol to the present.
Applicant has not been formally diagnosed as an alcoholic, but he has seriously
contemplated  the  issue.  This  is  the  main  reason  he  tries  to  abstain  from  drinking
because  he  does  not  want  it  to  control  his  life.  He  has  not  received  inpatient  or
outpatient  treatment  for  his  alcohol  problem  but  he  has  thought  about  it.  He  has  not
received  therapy  or  counseling  for  his  drinking  problem.  He  has  not  attended  an
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meeting for about a year.
Applicant stated that he is trying to improve himself and his lifestyle.  Since 2018,
he  has  obtained  his  high  school  diploma.  He  graduated  from  an  apprenticeship
program through work, and he enrolled in community college to try to get an Associate
Degree  in  Airframe  Structures.  He has  also  attended  AA  meetings  and  church men’s
groups.
