Applicant is 26  years old,  unmarried,  and  has  a  daughter  age  four.  She  earned  her
associate’s degree  in February 2021.  She  joined the  U.S. Army  in August  2015, just shy
of her 18th  birthday.  She  left  the  Army in  June  2019  with  an  Under  Honorable Conditions
discharge. Since  August 2021, she  has been  employed  by a  defense  contractor. (Items
16 and  17.)
Under Guideline  H,  the  SOR alleged  that Applicant: (a)  used  tetrahydrocannabinol
(THC), the  active  component in marijuana, which  remains an  illegal  drug  under Federal
law,  from   approximately  May  2016   to   at   least  June   2019;   (b)  used   THC  from
approximately   May  2016   to   at  least  June   2019,  while  in  possession   of  a   security
clearance; (c)  failed  a  urinalysis test  on  June  11, 2019, testing  positive  for THC; (d) failed
a urinalysis test  on  May 28, 2019, testing  positive  for  THC;  (e)  failed  a  urinalysis test  on
May 16, 2016, testing  positive  for THC  and; (f)  received  Non-Judicial  Punishment in  about
June  2016, was found  guilty of Wrongful Use  of Marijuana-Detected  by Urinalysis,  and
was punished  by  (1) a  reduction  in rank, (2) forfeiture of  pay for two  months (suspended),
(3) extra  duty for 45  days, restriction  for 45  days, (4) referral to  the  Army Substance  Abuse
Program;  and  (5) an  oral reprimand. (Item  1.) She  admitted  those  allegations. (Item  4.)
There is nothing  in the  record that  Applicant  signed  a  non-disclosure  agreement (NDA)
and  had a  “need-to-know  (NTK) while serving in the Army.
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant: (a) falsified her December 3,
2021  SCA  by  deliberately  failing  to  disclose  the  disqualifying  information  set  forth  in
Guideline H, subparagraph 1.f. above; and (b) falsified her December 3, 2021 SCA by
deliberately  failing  to  disclose  the  disqualifying  information  set  forth  in  Guideline  H,
subparagraphs 1.a. and 1.b. above. (Item 1.) She admitted those allegations. (Item 4.)
Applicant did not disclose her marijuana use in her December 3, 2021 SCA. (Item
17.) Nor did she disclose any marijuana use in her November 21, 2014 SCA. (Item 5.)
The  record  does  not  show  any  factual  bases  that  would  support  allegations  of  drug
involvement or substance misuse before November 21, 2014.
In the FORM brief, Department Counsel amended SOR Guideline J to withdraw
paragraph  3  and  subparagraph  3.a.  Those  paragraphs  were  the  crux  of  Guideline  J.
Therefore, Guideline J is not an issue in this case.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s  suitability  for  a   security  clearance,  an
administrative   judge   must   consider   the   adjudicative   guidelines  guidelines   are   flexible
rules of law that apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the  whole-
person   concept.   An   administrative  judge   must  consider  all   available  and   reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable, in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of  the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be  questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise questions about a  person’s
ability or willingness to  with laws, rules and regulations:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both.  21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
AG  ¶  25  describes  conditions  that  could  raise  a  security  concern  and  may  be
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
(b) testing positive for an illegal drug;
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including…purchase…; and
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d alleged Applicant’s pattern of using marijuana from May
2016  to  at  least  June  2019.  The  SOR  also  alleged  three  instances  when  she  tested
positive for marijuana use, in May 2016, May 2019, and June 2019. It also alleged that
from May 2016 to June 2019, she used marijuana while possessing a security clearance.
And finally it alleged that in June 2016, she was subjected to non-judicial punishment and
found guilty of Wrongful Use of Marijuana-Detected by Urinalysis.  Her punished included
a  reduction  in  rank,  extra  duty,  and  restriction  for  45  days.  Applicant  unequivocally
admitted those allegations.
Facts admitted by an applicant in an Answer to a SOR require s no further proof
from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any
admissions [applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of
its burden of proof”); ; and  Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n
applicant’s admissions, whether  testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an
Administrative  Judge’s  findings”).  Applicant  admitted  facts  that  trigger  disqualifying
conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) through (c).
The  application  of  AG  ¶  25(d)  warrants  further  discussion  in  light  of  recent
Decisions by the Appeal Board. More specifically, the Board interpreted  “any illegal drug
use  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.”  In  ISCR  Case  No.  20-03111  at  3
(App. Bd. Aug. 10, 2022), the Appeal Board held:
Eligibility for access to classified  information and the granting of access to
classified  material  are  not  synonymous  concepts.  They  are  separate
determinations. The  issuance  of  a  security  clearance  is a  determination
for  access  to  classified  national  security
that  an  individual  is  eligible
information  up  to  a  certain  level. Security  clearance  eligibility  alone
does not  grant an  individual access to  classified  materials. In  order to
gain  access  to  specific  classified  materials,  an  individual must  have
not  only  eligibility  (i.e.,  a  security  clearance), but also must  have  signed
a  nondisclosure agreement [NDA]  and  have  a  “need  to  know” [NTK].
See  Executive  Order 13526, dated  December 29, 2009, at §  4.1.  While
an  eligibility  determination  is generally  made  at the  agency  level and  is
subject  to  various  regulatory  due  process  requirements,  an  access
determination  is  most  often  made  at  the  local  level  without  any  due
process guarantees. See also ISCR Case No. 22-01661 at 4 (App. Bd. Sep.
21, 2023 (applying the foregoing to a “sensitive position”).
The  Board’s  holding  is  that  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  is  not
enough to establish  AG ¶  25(f), “any  illegal drug  use  while  granted  access to  classified
information.”  There is nothing in the record  showing that Applicant signed a NDA and
had a NTK, or any substantially similar evidence granting access to classified information.
Therefore, AG ¶  25(f) has not been established.
The  next  inquiry  is  whether  Applicant’s  marijuana  use  has  been  mitigated,  The
following four mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26: for drug involvement and substance
abuse may potentially apply.:
(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  happened
under  such   circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely   to   recur  or  does  not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,   trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
(b)  the individual acknowledges . . . her drug involvement and substance
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem,
and has established a pattern of abstinence . . . ;
(c)  abuse  of  prescription  drugs  was  after  a  severe  or  prolonged  illness
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended;
and
(d)  satisfactory  completion  of  a  prescribed  drug  treatment  program,
including, but not limited to, rehabilitation and aftercare  requirements,
without  recurrence  of  abuse,  and  a  favorable  prognosis  by  a  duly
qualified medical professional.
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(a).  On this record, Applicant’s use
of marijuana began in May 2016. That is quite a while ago. It continued, however, at least
until she was discharged from the Army in June 2019. Her three positive drug tests suggest
that her use while in the Army was not infrequent. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply to
her marijuana use while in the Army.
I have carefully reviewed the record and compared it to the plain language of AG
¶¶ 26(b) through (d). It is clear that the record does not contain facts that support those
other three mitigating conditions.
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
In  assessing  an  allegation  of  deliberate  falsification,  I  consider  not  only  the
allegation  and  an  applicant’s  answer  but  all  relevant  circumstances.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and
(d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the  “whole-person”  concept  and  factors).  Under  Guideline  E  for
personal conduct, the concern is that “[c]onduct involving questionable judgment, lack of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified
or sensitive information.” A statement  or omission is false or dishonest when it is made
deliberately (knowingly and willfully).
In this case, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified facts by failing to disclose her
June 2016 non-judicial punishment in her December 3, 2021 SCA.  The SOR also alleged
that  she  falsified  facts  by  failing  to  disclose  in  her  December  3,  2021  SCA  her  use  of
marijuana  from  May  2016  to  June  2019  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  She
unequivocally  admitted  both  allegations.  Her  omission  of  those  relevant  facts  falls
squarely within AG ¶ 16(a), which states in pertinent part:
[D]eliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant  facts  from
any personnel security questionnaire . . . used to conduct investigations.
AG ¶ 17(a) states in pertinent part the only mitigating condition that might mitigate
that disqualifying condition:
[The]  individual  made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts  to  correct  the  omission,
concealment, or falsification before being confronted with the facts.
Applicant  tested  positive  for  marijuana  use  three  times  while  in  the  Army.  She
could have – and should have - admitted that drug use in her December 3, 2021 SCA.
But she did not.  Having reviewed the entire record, there are no facts that would support
mitigating condition AG ¶ 17(a). Nor are there any other mitigating conditions that apply
here.
Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and factors).  In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about her eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  these  reason,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  mitigated  the  security
concerns  arising  under  Guideline  H,  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse,  and
Guideline E, personal conduct.
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on  the  allegations  set forth  in  the  SOR, as
required  by section  E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3  of the  Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement):
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph 1.b:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.c –  1.f:
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, (Personal Conduct)
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  2.a  –  2.b:
Against  Applicant
Paragraph  3 (Criminal Conduct)
Subparagraph 3.a:
Withdrawn
Withdrawn
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
