Applicant admitted  the  SOR allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a through  1.d. He  denied  SOR ¶¶
1.e  and  1.f.  After a  thorough  and  careful review of the  pleadings and  exhibits submitted,
I make the following  findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old. He never married. He has a nine-year-old child. He has
worked for a federal contractor since August 2019.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  August  2021.  In
response to Section 22-Police Record, that asked if he had been arrested, summoned,
cited, or received a ticket to appear as a result of an offense by a police officer, sheriff,
marshal or any other type of law enforcement official, he responded “yes.” He disclosed
an offense that occurred in March 2018, specifically: “Driving without tags or insurance,
alcohol possession.” (Item 2)
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  in  about  January  2019  with  disorderly
conduct. In December 2018, he was arrested and charged with driving under the influence
of alcohol (DUI), transporting an open container, vehicle liability insurance required, failing
to carry/exhibit driver’s license upon demand, and unlawful acts with vehicle (registration).
In December 2018, he was arrested and charged with domestic battery. In March 2018,
he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  domestic  battery.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  these
arrests and charges on his SCA, except as noted. (Item 2)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator on October 6, 2021. He
verified his financial information and that there was nothing about his character that could
be used against him for coercion. He was interviewed again on October 16, 2021, and
was  confronted  with  his  unreported  arrests  and  activity  with  the  police.  Police  reports
corroborate the above arrests. (Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8)
During  Applicant’s  background  interview,  he  confirmed  that  in  January  2019  he
was involved in a fight with his uncle at his uncle’s home and a misdemeanor charge for
disorderly conduct was filed against him by the county attorney. He told the investigator
that he went to court but could not recall when. He said the charge was dismissed. (Items
3, 4)
Applicant admitted during this interview that in December 2018 he was arrested
for  DUI,  transporting  an  open  container,  lack  of  vehicle  liability  insurance,  failure  to
carry/exhibit driver’s license, and  unlawful acts with  a vehicle (registration).  The county
attorney filed charges against him. In his SCA, he disclosed only the insurance and open
container offenses. He told the investigator he was at a bar and consumed four shots of
alcohol. He also had a bottle of whiskey in his car. He was pulled over by the police. He
did not consent to a breathalyzer, so he was transported to a hospital where he was given
a blood test. The results were not provided, but he was then arrested, handcuffed, and
taken to the police station. He recalls going to court, but not when. He stated the charges
were  dismissed.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  should  not  have  been  driving  after
consuming alcohol. (Items 3, 5)
Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic battery in December 2018. He
was involved in a fight with his uncle which began at a bar and continued at his uncle’s
home. He could not recall when he went to court, but he agreed that he had been charged
and the charges were dismissed. (Items 3, 6)
Applicant admitted during his interview that he was arrested in March 2018 and
charged with domestic battery. This incident again involved a fight with his uncle. He went
to court but could not recall when. The charge was dismissed. (Items 3, 7)
Applicant was repeatedly arrested and charged with various offenses. He admitted
going to court. The only arrest he disclosed on his SCA was that he failed to have proper
insurance and possession of alcohol. He was also arrested at the same time with DUI,
which he did not disclose. During that incident, he was handcuffed, refused to take the
breathalyzer, had a blood draw at the hospital, and then was transported to jail.  When
confronted  with  these arrests by the  government investigator he  stated, “he  did  not list
any of these charges because he did not think he needed to.” (Item 3) He later told the
government investigator that he was not charged, and the case was dismissed. I do not
find his explanation credible for why he failed to disclose his numerous arrests. There is
substantial evidence to conclude he deliberately failed to disclose his arrest for DUI and
his other arrests. (Item 3)
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  in  August  2009  with  burglary,  theft,  and
criminal  damage  to  property.  During  his  background  interview,  he  admitted  he  and  an
accomplice went to an apartment of a friend who was in prison at the time, entered and
retrieved items that Applicant stated belonged to him. While there with his accomplice,
the police arrived, arrested them, and charged them as stated above. Applicant told the
government  investigator  that  his  friend,  who  was  in  prison,  had  borrowed  some  of  his
video  games.  He  told  the  government  investigator  that  when  he  entered  his  friend’s
apartment,  he  did  not  know  it  would  be  unlocked.  He  said  he  went  to  the  apartment
complex office to ask them to let him into the apartment, and they would not let him in.
He said he then went to the apartment, and it was unlocked so he went in to get his things.
He retrieved the video games and a PlayStation Three, which he said belonged to him.
He told the investigator that all of the charges were dismissed except one, but he could
not recall which one. He went to court and was found guilty of a charge. He was fined and
placed on probation for 24 months. He could not recall the dates of his probation. (Item
3)
The police report from the incident states:
“Suspects   went   to   Apartment  complex,   cut   a   pad   lock  off   the   door  to
Apartment #3  and  entered  into  the  apartment.  The  suspects took  several
items from  the  apartment.  Suspects were  apprehended  later in the  morning.
They confessed to the  crimes com[m]itted. (Item  8)
Applicant’s statement contradicts the police report which noted the pad lock was cut off
the door. He did not have his friend’s permission to enter the apartment. (Items 3, 8)
