Applicant is 41-year-old, married, and has a minor child and an adult stepchild. He
earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2011.  Since  April  2020  he  has  worked  for  two  federal
contractors as an engineer. He enlisted in the U.S. Army from 2003 to 2007 and then the
Army Reserve from 2007 to 2011. Applicant deployed to a war zone in about 2004 for
one  year  and  served  in  a  dangerous  part  of  that  country  as  a  part  of  the  Army’s
communications operations. He was honorably discharged from both the Army and the
Army  Reserve.  He  has  been  diagnosed  with  combat-related  post-traumatic  stress
disorder (PTSD) and has a 30 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA). He was granted a secret clearance in 2010 in connection with his military
service. His security clearance status in 2005 and before is discussed below under SOR
¶ 1.d. He applied for a security clearance in April 2020 (2020 SCA), and he submitted a
second application, the e-QIP, in March 2022. (Tr. at 14-18; GE 1 at 5, 8-9, 17-21, 28-29,
35-36; AE G.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible
for access to classified or sensitive information  because he has used illegal drugs and
had used illegal drugs in the past when he held a security clearance. In the Answer, he
admitted all the allegations under this paragraph of the original SOR with explanations.
Applicant wrote that in 2012 a physician gave him a card to permit him to purchase and
use medical marijuana under the laws of his state of residence (State 1) to help him with
his PTSD symptoms. He used marijuana a couple of times per week to relieve his anxiety
and  to  help  him  sleep.  He  claimed  that  he  stopped  using  marijuana  in  2015  when  his
PTSD symptoms eased. Applicant’s wife also received a physician’s card permitting her
to purchase and use medical marijuana to help her deal with her own medical issue of
insomnia. (Answer at 1-2; Tr. at 19-21; AE C; AE D; AE T; AE U.)
SOR  ¶  1.a.   Purchases  of  Marijuana,  June  2012  to  July  2022.  During  the  dates
alleged  in  the  SOR,  Applicant  purchased  medical  marijuana  in  State  1  through
dispensaries.  He  never  purchased  marijuana  illegally  under  the  laws  of  State  1.  He
purchased the marijuana for himself and his wife because he received a discount as a
veteran. He testified that he purchased medical marijuana for his own use until June 2015,
when he claimed that he stopped using marijuana. He continued purchasing marijuana
for his wife after June 2015 so that the purchases were less expensive with his discount.
His  wife  stopped  using  marijuana  in  July  2022,  and  Applicant  stopped  purchasing
marijuana at that time. (Answer at 1; Tr. at 22-25; GE 1 at 6-8; GE 2 at 14; GE 3 at 5-6,
16.)
SOR  ¶  1.b.   Use  of  Marijuana,  June  2012  to  about  June  2019.  In  the  Answer,
Applicant admitted using marijuana from 2012 until 2015. At the hearing, he testified that
his used marijuana from June 2012 to “about June 2015” to help him with his PTSD. He
denied any marijuana use at any subsequent time. Applicant’s wife provided a notarized
statement after the hearing confirming that Applicant’s last use of marijuana was in 2015.
He had prepared a security clearance application in April 2020 (2020 SCA), in which he
had disclosed marijuana use from June 2012  to June 2019. He testified  that the 2019
date was “a typo.” He said that the correct last date of marijuana use was in “about June
2015. He designated the month of June as an estimate because he was “pretty certain”
that he stopped using marijuana in the middle of 2015. He then testified, “So, June, 2015,
was the last time I used [marijuana].” (Answer at 2; Tr. at 19-21, 25-27; GE 2 at 14; AE
S.)
As  discussed  below  in  detail,  I  have  significant  concerns  about  Applicant’s
credibility  on  several  factual  issues.  In  this  instance,  I  find  that  Applicant’s  last  use  of
marijuana was in about June 2015, as he testified. The critical difference with respect to
this  issue  is  that  Applicant  provided  collaborating  evidence  in  the  form  of  his  wife’s
notarized statement.
SOR ¶ 1.c. Article 15, UCMJ, Wrongful Use and Possession of Marijuana in 2005.
Applicant failed a drug test conducted on  February 22, 2005, while serving in the U.S.
Army and deployed to a European country. He claimed that he used marijuana once in
December 2004 during his leave at Christmas 2004. He received non-judicial punishment
(NJP). The SOR alleged, and Applicant admitted, that his punishment for using marijuana
was a reduction in grade from E-3 to E-1, forfeiture of pay, and the imposition of extra
duty. Certain documents in the record incorrectly refer to the drug used by Applicant as
MDMA  (ecstasy)  rather  than  marijuana.  Applicant  made  the  same  mistake  during  his
background interviews because he did not understand that MDMA  and marijuana were
two  different,  unrelated  drugs.  He  testified  that  the  only  drug  he  has  ever  used  was
marijuana.  The  FBI  report  in  the  record  also  incorrectly  refers  to  MDMA  rather  than
marijuana.  The  Army  records  regarding  the  drug  test,  the  NJP,  and  the  investigative
report in the record all refer to Applicant’s positive test for marijuana and his punishment
for using marijuana. I find that all references in the record to MDMA are erroneous and
should have referred to marijuana. (Tr. at 28-29, 64; GE 3 at 5-7, 15-16; GE 4 at 1-4; GE
5 at 1-2)
SOR  ¶  1.d.  Use  of  Marijuana  in  2005  while  Granted  Access  to  Classified
Information. Prior to the 2005 incident in which Applicant was charged as alleged in SOR
¶  1.c,  above,  Applicant  had  been  granted  access  to  classified  information.  Applicant
acknowledged  at  the  hearing  that  prior  to  2005  he  had  prepared  a  security  clearance
application.  He  testified  he  was  unaware  whether  he  had  actually  been  granted  a
clearance. During cross examination, he acknowledged that during his deployment to a
war  zone  in  2004,  he  was  responsible  for  using  classified  communication  equipment,
which required a security clearance (and access to classified information, in this case, the
classified  equipment).  Applicant’s  admissions  are  sufficient  to  establish  by  substantial
evidence  the  fact  that  he  held  a  security  clearance  and  had  access  to  classified
information during his deployment. There was no evidence in the record that his clearance
was ever revoked upon his return on home leave to the United States or thereafter on his
deployment to a European country. Applicant testified that during his leave in the United
States   in  December  2004   he   used   marijuana.  He   subsequently  tested   positive   for  the
drug  in a  random  drug  test  after he  deployed  to  Europe.  (Hearing  Ex.  I;  Tr. at  23-24,  38-
40; GE 3 at 9, 11-12, 15-16.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible
for access to classified or sensitive information because he deliberately omitted in the e-
QIP his past uses and purchases of marijuana. In the Answer, Applicant admitted the two
allegations in this paragraph with explanations.
SOR ¶ ¶  2.a  and  2.b. Falsification  in  the  e-QIP  regarding  Applicant’s  Use (SOR ¶
2.a) and  Purchases  of  Marijuana  (SOR ¶  2.b)  in the  Last Seven  Years, as  alleged  in  SOR
¶¶ 1.b  and  1.a, respectively.  Section  23  of the  e-QIP  asks  whether  Applicant  has used  or
purchased  any illegal drugs in the  past seven  years. He answered  both  questions in the
negative, when  in  fact he  had  used  and  purchased  marijuana  within  seven  years of the
e-QIP, which  he  signed  and  certified  as “true,  complete, and  correct”  on  March 31, 2022.
He testified  that his last  use  of marijuana  was  in June  2015, which was less than  seven
years prior to  the  e-QIP  certification  date.  He also admitted  that  he  continued  to  purchase
marijuana  for his wife  until July 2022,  when  she  last used  medical marijuana. (Tr. at 19-
27; GE 1 at 33-34.)
Applicant claimed in his Answer that he mistakenly answered the e-QIP question
by  failing  to  disclose  that  he  used  marijuana  in  2015.  He  wrote  that  he  was  uncertain
whether his last use of marijuana was within the seven years prior to the date of the e-
QIP.  Applicant  also  claimed  in  his  August  2022  background  interview  that  he  had  not
used marijuana  since  December  2004  when  he  was  in  the  Army, as  discussed  above
under SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d. In a follow-up interview on August 3, 2022, Applicant again
denied  that  he  had  used  marijuana  since  2004.  He  insisted  that  all  of  his  marijuana
purchases were solely for his wife’s medical use. He denied having PTSD. I note that the
VA awarded Applicant a 30% disability award in a letter dated January 10, 2022, about
seven months prior to the follow-up interview. As a result of his false statements in his
interview, DOHA in its interrogatories did not ask him when he last used marijuana. The
only question asked was simply whether he had used marijuana since August 2022. (GE
1 at 33-34, 59; GE 2 at 14; GE 3 at 5, 12, 16; AE C; AE D at 1.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that “in [his] head” his last use of marijuana was
before  the  seven-year  reporting  period,  which  began  on  March  31,  2015.  This  was
inconsistent with his admission at the hearing that his last use was in about June 2015.
In  weighing  Applicant’s credibility on  the  factual issue  of why  he  omitted  his  marijuana
use  in  2015  from  the  e-QIP,  I  have  considered  his  success  in  earning  a  Bachelor  of
Science  degree  in  Networking  and  Communications  Management  and  working  in
responsible positions as an engineer for two U.S. Government contractors. Also, I have
weighed his demeanor at the hearing and his lack of credibility on several factual issues,
as discussed above and as set forth below. I find that Applicant’s testimony that he was
confused about the dates covered by the seven-year question regarding past drug use
lacked  credibility.  Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  deliberately  omitted  material
information about his use of marijuana from the e-QIP. (Tr. at 30; GE 2 at 14; AE S; AE
T.)
Applicant  admitted purchasing marijuana for his wife  from  2012 to 2022,  yet  he
also failed to disclose these actions in the e-QIP. He testified that his incorrect answer
was due to being “mixed up” about what this question and the prior question about drug
use meant. He admitted at the hearing that he should have answered this question in the
affirmative. I note again that Applicant’s education and important work experience raise
serious  questions  about  the  credibility  of  his  claim  of  being  confused  by  the  simple
language in the e-QIP, as does his demeanor at the hearing. He alternatively explained
in his background interview that he did not list his purchases of marijuana because his
purchases were legal under the laws of State 1 and the e-QIP question asks whether he
has  “been  involved  in  the  illegal  purchase  .  .  .  of  any  drug?”  Applicant’s  inconsistent
excuses  for  his  patently  incorrect  answer  to  the  e-QIP  question  further  undercuts  his
credibility  about  his  e-QIP  omission.  I  conclude  that  Applicant  intentionally  failed  to
disclose that he had purchased marijuana during the seven-year period covered by the
question. (Tr. at 31; GE 3 at 16; AE L.)
During  the  security  clearance  background  investigation,  Applicant  did  not
voluntarily admit his positive drug test and NJP in 2005. The investigator had to confront
him about the 2004-2005 incidents. Also, he has offered two inconsistent versions of the
events surrounding his marijuana use in late 2004 after his return from deployment. In his
background interview, he reported that he attended a Christmas party with high school
friends  who  were  smoking  marijuana,  which  he  mistakenly  referred  to  as  MDMA,  not
knowing the difference between the two drugs. He stated that he was offered marijuana
by  a  friend  and  smoked  it.  At  the  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  did  not  know  that  the
cigarette that  he  was given  was  really  marijuana.  He presented to a  psychologist  who
prepared a report for this case the same story about his accidental use of marijuana and
told the  psychologist that  he  “immediately discontinued  using” what he  thought  was  an
ordinary cigarette. These inconsistencies further undermine Applicant’s credibility. (Tr. at
28, 46-49, 55-58; GE 3 at 9, 11; AE Q at 2.)
Applicant’s credibility is also strained by his contention in his background interview
that the only time he used marijuana (intentionally or accidentally) in the 2004 and 2005
timeframe was at the December 2004 Christmas party while on home leave in State 1 for
two  weeks. He failed to  mention his use  of marijuana during the 2012  to 2015 period.
With respect to his 2004 use of marijuana, he advised the investigator that he returned to
his overseas deployment location  in Europe shortly thereafter. He testified that he was
drug  tested  “as  soon  as  we  got  back  from  the  two-week  break.” He  tested positive for
marijuana. According to the Army’s records, the drug test was actually administered on
February 22, 2005, about two months later. In the Army investigative records, Applicant
is reported to have advised the investigators that he consumed marijuana on February
13, 2005, while in State 1. In fact, his leave had ended several weeks before that date.
These  inconsistencies  are  significant.  Although  there  is  no  evidence  in  the  record
regarding the time period for the drug to produce a positive drug test after consumption,
it  strains  credibility  that  Applicant’s  one-time  use  of  marijuana  in  late  December  2004
would produce a positive test result for THC in late February 2005. The SOR does not
allege this inconsistency regarding  the  date of Applicant’s use  of marijuana  prior to his
drug  test.  However,  the  inconsistency  raises  an  issue  regarding  Applicant’s  general
candor and credibility. (Tr. at 28-29, 62; GE 3 at 9,11; GE 4 at 3-4.)
Mitigation  and Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant provided extensive evidence in mitigation and in support of a favorable
whole-person  assessment.  I  have  carefully  reviewed  all  of  the  evidence  and  note  the
following specific items: Applicant provided a written statement of his intent to never use
or possess an illegal drug in the future. He also provided his PTSD medical diagnosis and
his  30  percent  VA  disability  rating.  He  provided  his  DD  214  evidencing  his  honorable
discharge from the Army. The DD 214 also listed the various medals and commendations
he was awarded during his military service, copies of which were also provided. (AE A;
AE C; AE D; AE G; AE H.)
In addition, Applicant provided six character-reference letters and a notarized letter
from his wife. The letters state that he works as an engineer providing valuable expertise
with data and computer systems. In October 2022 he was promoted to a lead position.
Two Army veterans who served with Applicant in a war zone praised his work ethic and
loyalty to the United States. Applicant’s wife described her husband as “a dedicated family
man” and an “honorable, dependable U.S citizen.” (AE I; AE R; AE S.)
Applicant also submitted a Summary of Psychological Evaluation prepared by a
Board-Certified Psychologist. The psychologist concluded that despite Applicant’s history
of PTSD and use of medical marijuana in the past, his “current judgment, reliability, and
trustworthiness are not negatively affected or impaired from any psychological condition,
substance use disorder, or underlying defect.” (AE Q at 6.)
