Applicant  is  26  years  old.  He  is  not  married  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s  degree  in  Aerospace  Engineering  with  an  emphasis  in  Astronautics.  He
holds the position of Systems Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in
connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant graduated from college with his Bachelor’s degree in May 2021.  After
graduating, he obtained a job working with the military.  He applied for and was granted
a security clearance in April 2021.  He continued working for the military from August 2,
2021, to June 20, 2022.  Wanting a new working environment, he applied for and was
hired by a defense contractor in June 2022.  At that time, he applied for a higher level
clearance which was granted in July 2022.  (Tr. p. 31.)
Applicant has a ten-year history of illegal drug involvement, including the use and
purchase  of  MDMA  (ecstasy),  LSD,  and  marijuana  on  various  occasions  from  about
2012  until  at  least  2022.  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the
SOR.  Applicant  used  marijuana  daily,  almost  every  week  from  2012  until  May  2021.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  He used marijuana after applying for a security clearance, while
possessing  a  security  clearance,  and  while  working  in  a  sensitive  position.  Applicant
testified that from January 2022 to February 2023, he used marijuana four times.  (Tr. p.
29.)
Applicant explained that he started smoking marijuana during his freshman year
in high school because he got mixed up with the wrong crowd of friends.  He explained
that his  best friend  suffers from  Chrons  Disease  and  the  use  of marijuana has  helped
him with his condition.  They have used marijuana together.  Applicant testified that he
last used marijuana in February 2023.  (Tr. p. 21.)  He stated that he has now stopped
using marijuana, but that he still had friends and family that use it.  (Tr. p. 22.)  Applicant
did not report his illegal use of marijuana to his company security office.
Applicant further admitted that he has also used illegal mind-altering substances
such  as  MDMA  (ecstasy)  on  13  separate  occasions,  and  LSD  on  six  separate
occasions,  during  the  period  from  2012  until  at  least  January  2022.  (Tr.  pp.  26-27.)
The last time he used MDMA was on February 12, 2023.  (Tr. 27.)  Applicant explained
that  on  this  occasion  when  he  used  MDMA,  he  was  trying  to  enjoy  himself  with  a
previous girlfriend who suggested that he use it to help him open up to his emotions.  At
the  time,  Applicant  was  working  for  a  defense  contractor,  possessed  a  security
clearance, and held a sensitive position.  Applicant knew that the use of this drug was
illegal,  that  it  was  against  company  security  policies,  and  against  Department  of
Defense security clearance regulations.  (Tr. p. 28.)
Applicant  completed  a  second  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations
Processing  dated  April  26,  2021.  Section  23  - Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity,
Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances, asked, “In the last seven years have you
illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”  Applicant  answered,  “NO”.
(Government  Exhibit  2.)  This  was  a  false  answer.  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to
disclose his use and purchase of illegal drugs discussed above.
Applicant  completed  an  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigation  Processing
dated  July  5,  2022.  Section  23  - Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity,  Illegal  Use  of
Drugs or Controlled Substances, asked, “In the last seven years have you illegally used
any  drugs or controlled  substances?  And,  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  have
you ever illegally used or otherwise been  involved  with a drug or controlled substance
while  possessing  a  security  clearance  other  than  previously  listed?”  Applicant
answered, “NO,” to both questions.  (Government Exhibit 1.)  Applicant answered both
questions  falsely.  He  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  his  use  and  purchase  of  illegal
drugs discussed above.
Applicant stated that he lied in response to the questions on both of his security
clearance applications concerning his illegal drug involvement because he was worried
about  how  he  would  be  perceived.  He  was  afraid  to  reveal  the  truth.  Drug  use  was
something  that  he  was  not  open  with  anyone  about,  including  his  parents  and  his
grandfather.  He kept his drug use to himself, and he did not tell his family, friends, or
employers about it.  (Tr. p. 31-32.)
Applicant’s  year  end  performance  reviews  from  his  manager  for  2022,  and  his
mid-year review for 2023, reflect that Applicant has been an excellent performer.  He is
considered  to  be  a  key  team  member.  His  leads  can  rely  on  his  work  and  product
deliveries to the higher management.  He has demonstrated high ethics, reliability, and
responsibilities  in  his  leadership  skills  by  taking  ownership  of  his  tasks  immediately.
(Applicant’s Exhibits B and C.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  team  members  of  the  Applicant  attest  to  his
reliability,  dependability,  and respectful character.  He  is a  hard  worker  with  a  positive
attitude who is always willing to help others despite being busy with his own work.  He
produces  high  quality,  consistent,  and  rule-compliant  work.  He  is  well-liked  and
considered to be an excellent engineer.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
