Applicant is 28 years old.  He is married  with no children.  He has Dual Master
degrees  in  Mechanical  Engineering,  and  Engineering  Technology  and  Innovation
Management.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  He has taken additional courses relevant to his
position and holds several certifications.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  He holds the position
of  Lead  Artificial  Intelligence  Architect  with  a  defense  contractor.  He  is  seeking  to
obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Guideline E  – Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use from about June 2012 until June 2019.
He  admitted that he has  used and  purchased  marijuana and products  containing THC
on various occasions over this seven or eight year period.  While in college, during his
undergraduate  studies,  he  used  marijuana  about  once  or  twice  a  month.  After
graduating,  he  began consuming  THC  on  a weekly  basis.  His  weekly  pattern  of  THC
usage continued throughout graduate school and after graduation.  During an internship
in 2018, Applicant was still using marijuana regularly.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
In 2018, Applicant began to seriously consider pursuing a career in the defense
industry.  Realizing that he would have to qualify for a security clearance, he decided to
quit using marijuana.  He also stopped associating with his drug using friends.  In June
2019,  Applicant  ingested  a  THC  gummy  while  visiting  his  brother  in  California.
Applicant  used  the  THC  gummy  with  the  thought  that  he  was  using  it  in  a  state  that
legalized  the  use  of  marijuana  for  recreational  purposes,  and  he  was  not  violating  the
law.  Applicant  specifically  remembers  the  date  of  June  2019,  as  his  last  use  of  any
illegal  drug  because  at  this  time  of  use  he  was  spending  time  with  his  brother  in
California.  Applicant  submitted  a  photograph  of  he  and  his  brother  on  this  occasion.
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
Applicant began working for defense contractor A in June 2019.  He applied for
and obtained his first security clearance about the same time.  Applicant contends that
since being hired by defense contractor A, and being granted a security clearance, he
has  completely  abstained  from  all  illegal  drug  use  and  has  no  intentions  of  ever
returning to it.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  also  admitted  that  he  used  cocaine  on  two  separate  occasions
between 2016 and 2018.  He states that he used cocaine once in the spring of 2016,
with  some  upperclassmen  at  his  university.  He  also  used  it  once  at  the  beginning  of
2018,  while  at  a  New  Year’s  Eve  party.  He  stated  that  he  has  no  intentions  of  ever
using cocaine again.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  July  31,  2019.
(Government Exhibit 2.)  In response to questions in Section 23, concerning Illegal Use
of Drugs or Drug Activity, Illegal Use of Drugs or Controlled Substances, he was asked,
“In  the  last  seven  years  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”
Applicant  answered,  “Yes”,  but  failed  to  disclose  the  information  set  forth  above,
specifically his full use of marijuana as well as his cocaine use.  Applicant subsequently
underwent a polygraph examination and divulged all of his prior drug use.  (Applicant’s
Answer to SOR.)
On March 24, 2021, Applicant completed another security clearance application.
(Government Exhibit 1.)  In response to the same questions in his previous application
in Section 23, concerning Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, Illegal Use of Drugs or
Controlled Substances, he was again asked, “In the last seven years, have you illegally
used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”  Applicant  answered,  “Yes,”  but  failed  to
disclose the information set forth above, specifically his full use of marijuana as well as
his  cocaine  use.  Again,  he  failed  to  disclose  his  full  use  of  marijuana  as  well  as  his
cocaine use.
Applicant denied that he deliberately attempted to conceal his illegal drug use on
his security clearance applications.  He stated that he was attempting to update his e-
QIP with the information he provided during a polygraph examination when he put down
the wrong date that he last used an illegal drug.  He stated that he made an error and
accidentally  listed that July 2020,  was his last  use of  an illegal drug  when  in actuality,
his last use of any illegal drug was in June 2019.  He stated that he now realizes that his
rush through the e-QIP was not wise, as he did not check or double check his answers
before submitting them.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR)
Applicant  also  stated  that  in  2021,  when  he  completed  his  second  security
clearance application  for a  clearance upgrade,  he  thought  the  investigators would  use
the  previous  information  from  his  2019  security  clearance  investigation  to  supplement
the  current  investigation.  He  later  found  his  assumption  to  be  wrong.  Applicant  now
realizes  that  each  time  he  completes  the  application or  is interviewed  for any  purpose
during his security clearance investigation, he must give full and complete answers, and
not just a “Yes”  or “No”  answer, if the question requires more.  He now knows that he
should have disclosed all relevant information in response to all questions on his e-QIP
and be as detailed as possible.  Applicant contends that he did not deliberately attempt
to hide any material information from the Government in response to questions on either
of his security clearance applications.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR)
Applicant  has  submitted  a  signed  Statement  of  Intent  to  abstain  from  all  illegal
drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  F.)  He  has  also
undergone  a  voluntary  drug  test  to  show  his  continued  commitment  to  a  drug  free
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  I.)  Applicant  deeply  regrets  his  past  behavior  and
lifestyle.
acknowledges  that  his  past  illegal  drug  use  was  an  error  in  judgment  that  will  not  be
repeated.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
In  January  2023,  Applicant  was  hired  by  his  current  employer  as  a  Lead  Data
Scientist.  Since then, based upon his strong work ethic and excellent performance, he
has been promoted twice.  His most recent performance evaluation from his supervisor
dated  August  22,  2023,  reflects  that  Applicant  has  exceeded  all  expectation  of  his
position.  He  is  effective,  providing  technical  expertise,  and  helping  the  team  stay  on
track to meet critical milestones.  Overall he has made a significant impact in his short
time at the firm.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
Applicant’s  Manager  nominated  Applicant  for  the  “Black  Engineer  of  the  Year
Award” representing the entire company.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
Applicant’s  wife,  a  medical  student,  testified  that  she  has  been  married  to  the
Applicant since June 8, 2023.  She and her husband do not use illegal drugs of any sort
and  never  have.  Furthermore,  they  do  not  associate  with  anyone  who  uses  illegal
drugs.  She describes her husband as very ambitious, passionate about his career, and
sobriety  is  naturally  a  part  of  their  lifestyle.  She  stated  that  he  is  remorseful  for  not
being  as  thorough  as  he  could  have  been  when  he  filled  out  the  security  clearance
applications.  (Tr. pp. 29-32.)
Applicant’s  brother  testified  that  he  gave  the Applicant  the  THC  gummy  that  he
ingested in June 2019.  Applicant was visiting his brother in the state at the time.  This
was  the  same  month  he  either  started  or  was  interviewed  for  the  job  with  defense
contractor A.  (Tr. pp. 40, and 44-46.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  professional  associates,  including  former
supervisors,  and  from  family  members,  including  his  brother,  mother,  and  wife,
collectively  attest  to  Applicant’s  overall  outstanding  character.  He  is  known  for  his
trustworthiness,  integrity,  honesty,  transparency,  and  supportive  nature.  He  is  also
described as being responsible, loyal, and helpful.  He is said to be a natural leader with
excellent technical skills, who is ambitious, well liked, and respected by those who know
him.  (Applicant’s Exhibits J and K.)
