Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  December  2021.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  2019.  He  has
never married and has no children. (Items 4, 5)
In  November  2021,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  at  an  auto-
parts store because a co-worker reported in writing that Applicant brought a firearm into
the store. He is not eligible for rehire. He acknowledged that he had a firearm in a case
in  his  car  because  homeless  people  in  the  area  caused  problems  but  denied  that  he
ever brought it into the store. He claimed he was fired without being permitted to relay
his side of the story, yet he was terminated after a meeting with a representative from
the auto-parts store while another individual was on speaker phone. He opined that his
co-worker may have mistaken his diabetes kit for a firearm. (Items 4-6)
In  Applicant’s  2022  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations  Processing  (SF
86), he listed the termination, but claimed that he was not given a reason for being fired.
He  did  not  reference  the  firearm.  During  his  May  2022  security  interview  that  he
authenticated,  he  acknowledged  that  his  supervisor  told  him  that  he  was  being
terminated for bringing a firearm into the store, but he denied that he received a written
reason  for  being  terminated.  A  written  record  from  his  employer  read  that  he  was
terminated for “Policy Violation-Rules.”  In his Response to the SOR, he denied that he
had been terminated from the auto-parts store for bringing a firearm in to the store and
claimed  that  no  “written”  confirmation  was  ever  provided  to  him  regarding  his
termination. (Items 4-6)
In about April 2022, after Applicant certified the SF 86, but before his first security
interview,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  felony  menacing  with  a  deadly
weapon.  He  was  also  the  subject  of  a  protective  order  related  to  this  incident.  The
alleged  victim  reported  that,  while  their  cars  were  stopped  close  to  one  another  in  a
parking lot, she saw Applicant reach behind his car seat to retrieve something and got
out  of  his  car  with  a  black,  semi-automatic  style  handgun  by  his  side  while  staring  at
her. She and her two children were inside their car. She claimed that she was so afraid
after seeing the gun that she “blacked out” and was in fear for her life. She backed her
car up and drove away from the scene. She told police that she was 100 percent sure
that Applicant was the individual holding the handgun. When the alleged victim’s spouse
confronted  Applicant  about  the  incident,  Applicant  denied  brandishing  a  weapon,  but
commented  that  he  considered  everyone  in  the  area  a  threat.  The  alleged  victim’s
spouse did not witness Applicant holding a gun. (Items 5, 7)
Applicant claimed that the alleged victim had nearly caused an accident involving
both their vehicles and that he had gotten out of his car, stood beside it, put his hands
up, displayed his middle finger, got back in his car, and went on his way. He denied that
he brandished a firearm. He claimed that he had a firearm in a case in his car, but he
left it there. He claimed that his phone was in his hand when he got out of the car and
the alleged victim must have mistaken his phone for a firearm. When the alleged victim
provided  her  statement  to  police,  the  description  of  the  firearm  that  she  provided  was
consistent  with  the  unloaded  firearm  that  police  later  found  in  his  car  in  a  hardcase
behind  his  driver’s  seat.  The  case  containing  the  weapon  was  placed  on  top  of  other
items. Applicant matched the description that the alleged victim provided to police. She
also picked him out of a police lineup. When Applicant was arrested, he spent part of a
weekend in jail, but claimed that he was released the next business day without having
to post bail. In June 2022, these charges were dismissed because, based upon recently
obtained  evidence/witness  testimony,  there  was  no  longer  a  reasonable  likelihood  of
success at trial. In June 2022, the court vacated the protective order. (Items 5, 7)
Applicant  did  not  divulge  this  arrest  during  his  May  2022  security  interview
despite  the  investigator  asking  him  about  any  issues  involving  the  police  that  were
required to be listed. The Government did not allege this failure to disclose in the SOR.
Any  adverse  information  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  used  for  disqualification
purposes,  however  it  may  be  considered  in  assessing  an  applicant’s  credibility;  in
evaluating  an  applicant’s  evidence  of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  changed
circumstances;  in  considering  whether  the  applicant  has  demonstrated  successful
rehabilitation; and in applying the whole-person concept. (ISCR Case No. 15-07369 at 3
(App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017)).
During  a  November  2022  security  interview,  when  an  investigator  asked
Applicant  why  he  did  not  divulge  the  April  2022  arrest  during  his  May  2022  security
interview,  he  provided  several  reasons.  First,  contrary  to  the  report  of  the  May  2022
subject interview that he certified, he claimed that the first investigator did not ask about
incidents  involving  the police.  He  claimed  that  he  would have  reported  the arrest  if  he
had been asked. He also claimed that he thought the incident was outside of the scope
of  the  investigation  because  it  happened  after  he  submitted  his  SF  86.  Finally,  he
claimed that he did not report it because he did not think it affected his ability to do his
job. (Items 5, 7)
Applicant  had  two  separate  incidents  where  he  was  alleged  to  have  had
possession of a firearm where it was inappropriate for him to do so. On both occasions,
he  acknowledged  that  he  had  access  to  a  firearm  that  he  kept  in  his  car.  On  one  of
these occasions a witness corroborated the actual location from which he collected the
firearm  and  the  type  of  firearm  that  he  acknowledged  owning.  On  both  occasions,  he
used the same explanation that the people who saw the firearm must have mistaken it
for something else he had in his hand. He was less than candid about the reasons for
his  employment  termination  in  his  SF  86  and  about  his  felony  arrest  during  his  May
2022 security interview. During his November 2022 security interview, his explanations
for  not  divulging  his  felony  arrest  during  his  earlier  interview  were  either  inconsistent
with  the  evidence  or  illogical.  I  find  it  implausible  that  on  two  separate  occasions,  he
was  unfortunate  enough  to  be  seen  holding  a  firearm  to  which  he  had  ready  access.
Given these considerations, I find the evidence supports that he brought a firearm into
his workplace, and that he brandished a firearm during the April 2022 incident where he
was arrested. (Items 4-7)
Applicant  listed  his  supervisor  as  the  only  person  with  knowledge  of  his
termination. He listed one other person as having knowledge of his 2022 arrest. He has
not  told  his  current  co-workers,  his  current  supervisor,  or  his  current  security  officer
about either his 2021 termination or his 2022 arrest. (Items 4-7)
