Applicant  is  35  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  with  two  children.  He  has  a  high
school diploma.  He is employed with a defense contractor as a Security Professional.
He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.  Applicant
began working for his current employer in August 2022.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR identified one delinquent debt owed to a bank that was charged off in
the  amount  of  $19,427.  Applicant  admits  the  allegation.  Credit  Reports  of  Applicant
dated October 22, 2022; July 20, 2023; and October 2, 2023, confirm the indebtedness
listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  incurred  the  debt  when  he  financed  a  new  vehicle  in
November 2017.  He defaulted on the loan in about April 2018. The debt remains owing.
Besides
The
circumstances as to how Applicant incurred this debt are as follows:
this  debt,  Applicant  has  no  history  of
indebtedness.
financial
In  2017,  Applicant  was  close  to  finishing  the  lease  period  on  a  Dodge  Charger
and had taken it into the dealership for the sole purpose of being serviced.  At that time,
Applicant had no intentions of purchasing a car.  A few months earlier he had become a
father,  and  he  thought  that  it  might  be  nice  to  get  a  new  and  larger  vehicle  to  better
accommodate his new child, but  it was just a  thought.  On this day,  his impulses took
over.  Since  he  was  gainfully  employed,  and  had  maintained  good  credit,  he  was
encouraged  by  the  salesman  to  test  drive  several  vehicles.  After  doing  so,  he  was
convinced that he should purchase a new car.  Not long thereafter, he was approved for
a new car loan.  With no intention of buying a  car, he found himself  financing a brand
new 2018 Dodge Charger.  The vehicle cost him a total of approximately $40,724.  The
monthly  payments  were  about  $612.  At  that  time,  Applicant  was  making  $12.00  per
hour, and working 40 hours a week.  Two days later, when reality sank in, after talking
with family and friends about the purchase, and after realizing that he should not have
purchased  such  an  expensive  vehicle,  he  contacted  the  dealership  and  asked  if  he
could return it.  They told him that state law did not have a “cooling off” period and that
he was stuck with the vehicle.  They further explained that if he did not make a payment
on the car, they would repossess it from him.  About a month later, Appellant failed to
make  the  payment,  and  just  as  the  dealer said,  they  repossessed  the  car.  When  the
vehicle was repossessed it had been driven less than 1,000 miles.  The dealer told the
Applicant  that  after  the  vehicle  was  sold,  he  would  be  responsible  for  the  deficiency
owed on the loan.  The amount owed by the Applicant to the bank after the sale of the
vehicle is $19,427.
Applicant  stated  that  in  August  2021,  he  was  notified  by  the  creditor  or  their
representative  that  he  needed  to  respond  to  a  Court  Summons  concerning  the  debt
owed to the bank.  Applicant remembers responding to the Summons on-line sometime
in 2021.  He stated that since then he has heard nothing further.
Applicant  testified   that   the   decision   to   purchase   the   car   in  the   first   place   was  a
misjudgment   on   his   part.     He  could   not  afford  to   keep   up   with   the   payments.     To   this
day, Applicant has   not   made   any   payments   toward   resolving  the   debt.     He   stated   that
he  does  not have  the  money to  do  so.  In  an  attempt to  give  Applicant the  benefit of the
doubt,  with  the  exception  of this delinquent  debt,  considering  the  Applicant’s otherwise
good   financial  history,   the   record   was  left   open   to   allow  Applicant  the   opportunity   to
learn more about the  debt,   and  to  determine   what   if  anything  he  chose  to  do   about  it.
Applicant  did  contact   the   law  firm   that  is  handling   the   debt  collection.    They  have
provided   him   with   a   45-day  offer   for  a   full   and   final  settlement  of  the   account  in  the
amount   of  $15,542.04.     (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing   Exhibit  A.)     Applicant   provided   no
further information.
A  letter  of  recommendation  from  the  defense  contractor’s  Security  Site  Focal,
who works closely with  Applicant, indicates that  Applicant is dependable, professional,
and  trustworthy.  He  is  honest  and  transparent  and  displays  high  ethical  principles.
Regardless of the challenges or tight deadlines that may arise, Applicant can always be
counted on to deliver high quality results.  He is considered to be a true gem, with the
highest  level  of  integrity,  who  always  meets  or  exceeds  his  job  expectations.
Applicant’s skills and capabilities, as well as his character and dedication to the job are
described  as  exemplary.  His  attention  to  detail  and  his  commitment  to  continuous
improvement are evident in every task he undertakes.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
