Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations in his Answer. He is 45 years old. He
married  in  1999,  divorced  in  2020,  and  he  has  two  minor  children.  He  has  owned  his
home since December 2019.  He earned an associate  degree in 2006. He has worked
as  a  design  engineering  manager  for  his  current  employer  since  May  2022.  He  has
never held a security clearance. (Items 1-4)
Applicant used marijuana, with varying frequency, from approximately April 1996
to at least December 2022. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He used marijuana after completing his security
clearance  application  in  June  2022.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  He  intends  to  use  marijuana  in  the
future.  (SOR  ¶  1.c)  He  first  used  marijuana  in  April  1996,  and  he  used  marijuana
thereafter.  Since  December  2019,  he  used  marijuana  monthly  to
sporadically
sporadically,  at  home  with  friends.  It  made  him  feel  relaxed.  Initially,  his  friends
purchased the marijuana but since December 2019, he has purchased marijuana for his
own  consumption.  He  likened  his  use  of  marijuana  to  the  way  that  people  consume
alcohol socially. He indicated that his marijuana use has not had a negative impact on
him, and he would not rule out if he would continue to use marijuana. He indicated that
recreational marijuana use is legal in his state. (Answer; Items 1-2, 4)
Applicant did not disclose the information about his marijuana use during his first
background interview on August 11, 2022. He contacted the investigator and disclosed
this information during his second background interview on August 24, 2022. He stated
in his January 2023 response to interrogatories that he intended to use marijuana in the
future, and that his employer’s policy is to abstain from illegal drug use. In his Answer,
he  stated  that  his  recreational  use  of  marijuana  is  during  his  personal  time,  and  he
reiterated the possibility that he might continue using marijuana in the future. (Answer;
Items 1-2, 4)
Applicant did not disclose his drug involvement in response to section 23  of his
2022  SCA,  which inquired  about illegal use of  drugs or drug  activity.  He marked  “No,”
and did not disclose his marijuana use in response to a question that inquired whether
he had illegally used any drug or controlled substances in the last seven years, and to a
question  that  inquired  whether  he  had  been  involved  in  the  illegal  purchase,
manufacture,  cultivate,  trafficking,  production,  transfer,  shipping,  receiving,  handling  or
sale of any drug or controlled substance in the last seven years. (SOR ¶ 2.a; Items 1-3)
He  indicated  during  his  second  background  interview  that  he  did  not  disclose  his
marijuana  use  on  his  2022  SCA  because  he  did  not  feel  comfortable  disclosing  it.  He
stated in his Answer that he later regretted this false answer and corrected it. (Answer;
Item 4)
