Applicant  admitted   all   allegations  contained   in   the   SOR.   (¶¶   1.a,  1.b,  and   2.a.)
Applicant’s admissions  are accepted  as findings of  fact.  Additional findings  follow.  (SOR
response)
Applicant is 27 years old. He earned a high school equivalency diploma in 2014.
He never married, and he has one six-year-old son. In February 2022, he was hired by a
DOD contractor as a security officer. In September 2023, he left that employment to work
as  a  security  officer  for  another  DOD  contractor.  He  is  required  to  possess  a  security
clearance to perform specific job duties for his employer. (Tr. 17-18; GE 1)
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct:
In  December  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while
intoxicated (DWI). He pled guilty to driving while ability impaired by alcohol (DWAI), and
he was sentenced to complete an alcohol education program, was fined, and his driver’s
license was suspended for 90 days. (SOR ¶ 1.a) Applicant explained that on that occasion
he had consumed about five mixed drinks. He was driven to a friend’s house  where he
stayed overnight and slept on the couch. The next morning, he was driving home when
he hit a patch of ice and the car slid into the front yard of a residence. The homeowners
called  the  police.  The  police  gave  him  a  breathalyzer  test  and  his  results  registered
0.14%, which was above the legal limit, and he was arrested. (Tr. 19-21, 29-30; GE 1,
GE 2, GE 4)
In December 2021, Applicant was arrested and charged with felony DWI, driving
on shoulder, lane violation, unlicensed driver, aggravated unlicensed operator, and failure
to keep right. All charges were dismissed except for the DWI charge. He pled guilty to a
misdemeanor  charge  of  DWI,  and  he  was  required  to  undergo  a  substance  abuse
evaluation,  perform  60  hours  of  community  service,  and  pay  a  fine.  He  was  also
sentenced to three years of probation that will end in September 2025. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Both
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b were cross-alleged under Guideline J. (SOR ¶ 2.a) (Tr. 21-27; GE 1,
GE 2, GE 3)
Regarding the December 2021 incident, Applicant testified that he had consumed
approximately four glasses of wine and believed he was fully capable of driving himself
home. He was crossing over the lanes on the two-lane road and was pulled over by police.
His breathalyzer test registered 0.12%. He was not required to participate in an alcohol
treatment program, but he does have to submit to alcohol screenings when he reports to
his  probation  officer,  and  he  could  get  a  random  alcohol  screen  test  at  his  home.  His
driver’s  license  was  revoked  for  18  months.  He  has  complied  with  his  sentence
requirements, and he expects that he may be released early from probation in April 2025.
His attendance for reporting to his probation officer is perfect, and his alcohol screenings
have all been negative. He is required to remain abstinent from alcohol while serving on
probation. Applicant stated he would be willing to submit supporting documentation while
the record was held open, but he did not do so. (Tr. 21-27, 32)
Applicant testified that he has not consumed any alcohol for approximately the last
year-and-a-half.  He  stays  focused  on  work  and  stays  busy.  During  his  April  2022
background interview, he told the authorized DOD investigator that it would take four or
five  mixed  drinks  to  get  intoxicated,  and  he  would  get  intoxicated  one  or  two  times  a
month. After his second alcohol-related arrest, he changed his drinking pattern. He was
currently  drinking  once  a  month  at  home,  and  he  would  only  drink  two  alcoholic
beverages.  During  the  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  he  would  only  drink  alcohol  for
special  occasions  during  the  time  following  his  arrest  and  court  disposition,  such  as
holidays  and  birthdays.  After  he  was  placed  on  probation  in  September  2022,  he  has
maintained full sobriety. (Tr. 25-27; 31-34)
