Applicant  is  27  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s  degree.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  SW  Integration
Engineering Intern.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.  He has no military service.
Evidentiary Ruling on Personal Subject Interview
Applicant  objected  to  Government  Exhibit  6,  which  is  the  Applicant’s  personal
subject  interview  based  upon  the  fact  that  the  report  has  not  been  authenticated  by  a
Government  witness,  and  therefore  cannot  be  considered.  He  asserts  that  the
summary  mischaracterizes  and  misquotes  his  responses,  and
factual
misinformation.  Based  upon  Applicant’s  objection  which  was  sustained,  Government
Exhibit 6 is not admissible, and was not considered in this determination.
includes
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant admits the allegations with explanations set forth in the SOR under this
guideline.  He admits that he has used hallucinogenic mushrooms in March 2020, while
granted  access  to  classified  information  or while  holding  a  sensitive  position.  He also
admitted that  from  July  2015  to  May  2017, he  used marijuana  with  varying  frequency.
(Applicant’s Answer to SOR)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  when  he  used  hallucinogenic
mushrooms  in  March  2020,  it  was  a  one-time  impulsive  occurrence  where  the
substance  was  offered  to  him  by  his  friends.  He  stated  that  he  “let  his  guard  down”
through a combination of rationalizations, namely a desire to share an experience with
his friends, and a genuine curiosity.  He further stated that after he experienced it and
reflected on his actions, he realized that he had been short-sighted and immature.  He
stated that he has no intentions to ever use it again.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
At the time he used the hallucinogenic mushrooms in March 2020, Applicant was
employed  with  a  defense  contractor  and  possessed  a  security  clearance  and  held  a
sensitive position. He rationalized his use of the illegal drug with the fact that he had not
been  given a  need  to know or any other direct  access to  classified  information  at  that
point.  He also told himself that it was not as much of a liability as it could have been if
he had information that could be disclosed in a compromised state.  He realizes that he
must own up to the mistake, be truthful if asked about it, and reinforce that he will never
put himself in the position again.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant  also  stated  that  while  in college  he  used  marijuana  from  July 2015  to
May 2017.  In 2015, the first time he used it, he was 19-years-old.  From then to about
2017,  he  used  marijuana  occasionally.  On  these  occasions,  he  received  marijuana
from his friend or roommate, and normally during academic breaks.  He stated that he
never had the urge to use it more frequently.  In August 2018, Applicant first applied for
a security clearance.  He was granted a Secret security clearance in November  2018.
He  stated  that  by  the  time  he  applied  for  his  internship  in  June  2018,  with  a  defense
contractor,  he  had  not  used  marijuana  for  about  a  year,  so  he  comfortably  tested
marijuana  free.  He  stated  that  he  has  not  used  marijuana  since  2017,  and  has  no
interest in ever using it again.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
