Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  systems  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since January 2006. He received a security clearance in December 2013. (FORM Item 4)
He is a native-born U.S. citizen. In January 2000, he married a naturalized U.S. citizen
who was born in the Philippines, and they have two children, ages 16 and 12, who were
born in the United States.
Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  mother-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the
Philippines.  His  father-in-law  is  self-employed  in  an  engineering  and  trading  business.
The record does not reflect the occupation, if any, of his mother-in-law. His brother-in-law
is  a  dual  U.S.-Philippine  citizen,  residing  in  the  Philippines  and  serving  as  an  elected
official of a province, similar to a county commissioner in the United States. Applicant’s
in-laws all reside in a northern province of the Philippines. He states that his wife and her
brother  are  estranged,  but  he  provided  no  details  of  the  nature  or  reasons  for  their
estrangement.
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that he and his father-in-law do not
speak, “as it is our nature.” He and his mother-in-law “cordially greet each other” when
his wife talks with her mother. He declared that he has no meaningful contact with his in-
laws, and he has no emotional ties to them. His wife speaks with her mother weekly, her
father monthly, and her estranged brother quarterly.
The  Philippines  is  a  multi-party,  constitutional  republic  with  a  bicameral  legislature.
The United States recognized the Philippines as an independent state and established
diplomatic relations in 1946. The United States has designated the Philippines as a major
non-NATO ally, and there are close and abiding security ties between the two nations,
based on strong historical and cultural links and a shared commitment to democracy and
human rights. The Manila Declaration of 2011 reaffirmed the 1951 U.S. Philippines Mutual
Defense  Treaty  as  the  foundation  for  a  robust,  balanced,  and  responsive  security
partnership. The U.S.-Philippine Bilateral Strategic Dialogue (BSD) is an annual forum for
forward planning across the spectrum of the relationship. The most recent BSD was in
January  2023,  when  senior  Philippine  and  U.S.  foreign  affairs  and  defense  officials
convened in Manila. There is no evidence that the Philippines engages in economic or
military intelligence activity directed toward the United States.
The United States is among the Philippines’ top trading partners, and it traditionally
has been the Philippines’ largest foreign investor. The United States and the Philippines
have a bilateral trade and investment framework and a tax treaty. Philippine imports from
the  United  States  include  raw  and  semi-processed  materials  for  the  manufacture  of
semiconductors, electronics and electrical machinery, transport equipment, cereals, and
cereal preparations.
Philippine national elections  have  been generally  free  and  fair,  but  independent
observers  have  noted  widespread  vote  buying,  and  dynastic  political  families  have
monopolized elective offices at the national and local level.
The  most  significant  human  rights  problems  in  the  Philippines  are  extrajudicial
killings, enforced disappearances undertaken by security forces and vigilante groups, a
weak and overburdened criminal justice system, widespread official corruption and abuse
of power, and impunity from prosecution for human rights abuses.  Other human rights
problems  include prisoner and detainee torture  and  abuse by  security  forces,  violence
and  harassment  against  human  rights  activists  by  security  forces,  warrantless  arrests,
lengthy pretrial detentions, poor prison conditions, killings and harassment of journalists,
violence  against  women,  abuse  and  sexual  exploitation  of  children,  and  trafficking  in
persons.
More  than  four  million  Filipino-Americans  live  in  the  United  States,  and  almost
300,000 U.S. citizens reside in the Philippines, including a large number of U.S. military
veterans. Additionally, Manila is home to the only Veterans Administration regional office
outside the United States, and the American Cemetery in Manila is the largest American
military cemetery outside the United States.
Muslim separatists, communist insurgencies, and terrorist organizations are active
in  the  Philippines;  and  they  have  killed  Philippine  security  forces,  local  government
officials, and other civilians. Through joint U.S.-Philippine cooperation, the ability of these
various  groups  to  operate  in  the  Philippines  has  been  constrained  but  not  eliminated.
Gangs of kidnappers have targeted foreigners, including Filipino-Americans.
The  State Department has  issued a Level 2 travel advisory (exercise  increased
caution) for the Philippines. It has issued a Level 4 travel advisory (do not travel) for the
Sulu Archipelago and areas of Mindanao province, located in the southern Philippines,
due to the high threat of kidnapping and violent activities of terrorist and insurgent groups.
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he attached a map of the Philippines and pointed
out that his wife’s family members live in a northern province of the Philippines, and the
Level 4 travel advisory pertains only to the Sulu Archipelago and Mindanao areas, about
640 miles away from where his wife’s family members live and work. (AX A at 1, 2, 23)
The SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana on several occasions in October
2021,  while granted access  to  classified  information.  He admitted this  allegation  in his
answer to the SOR. He described his experience with marijuana as “fake happiness for
one hour,” followed by a return to reality. He explained that he was in deep grief after the
loss of both parents and was under stress from having tendered a resignation from his
employment  due  to  a  conflict  with  his  boss.  He  asked  his  wife  to  purchase  edible
marijuana for him, and she complied. He admitted using the marijuana more than once
during October 2021, “out of a silly notion of not wasting resources.” He returned to his
job  when  his  coworkers  and  a  new  boss  invited  him  back  before  his  resignation  was
accepted. In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he submitted a statement promising to
abstain from future illegal drug involvement and substance abuse, with the understanding
that failure to uphold his promise to abstain from drug involvement and substance abuse
will be grounds for revocation of his national security eligibility. (AX A at 2)
