Applicant  is  43  years  old,  and  unmarried  with  one  child.  He  has  an  Associate
degree.  He has no military service.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an AUV
Operator.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  incurred  eleven  delinquent  debts  owed  to
creditors on  accounts that  were  charged  off,  placed  for collection, or  past  due  totaling
In  his  answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  debts.  Credit
approximately  $  51,705.
reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  October  20,  2022;  and  March  27,  2023,  confirm  this
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
Applicant  stated  that  in  2016,  he  was  laid  off  from  a  job  he  had  for  seventeen
years.  He had difficulty finding stable employment until 2019.  He started working and
was laid off due to COVID.  He was unemployed for about a year.  During this time, his
bills  became  delinquent.  In  August  2019,  he  began  working  for  his  current  employer.
Since then, there have been no noted interruptions in his employment.  In April 2021, he
applied for a security clearance which was granted.  He stated that he is currently trying
to catch up with his delinquent debts now that the economy seems to be getting back to
normal.  (Government Exhibit 1.)  Applicant has provided no information to show that he
has done anything to resolve his delinquent debts.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
a.  A  delinquent  debt owed  to  a  creditor for an  account  that was  placed  for collection
in the  approximate  amount  of $4,041.  Applicant  admits  the  debt  and provided  no
documentary  evidence   to   show  that  the   debt  has  been   or  is  being   resolved.
The debt remains owing.
b.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $3,107.  Applicant admits the debt and provided no
documentary evidence to show that the debt has been or is being resolved.  The
debt remains owing.
c.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection in the approximate amount of $2,353.  Applicant admits this debt and
provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  or  is  being
resolved.  The debt remains owing.
d.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate amount  of  $1,413.  Applicant  admits the  debt  and
provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  or  is  being
resolved.  The debt remains owing.
e.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,285.  Applicant  admits  the  debt  and
provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show that  the  debt  had  been  or  is  being
resolved.  The debt remains owing.
f.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $135.  Applicant admits the debt and provided no
documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  or  is  being  resolved.
The debt remains owing.
g.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $53.  Applicant  admits  the  debt  and  provided  no
documentary evidence to show that the debt has been or is being resolved.  The
debt remains owing.
h.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  past  due  in  the
amount  of  $2,589,  with  a  total  balance  of  $19,595.  Applicant  admits  this  debt
and  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  or  is
being resolved.  The debt remains owing.
i.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  past  due  in  the
amount of $$10,848, with a total balance of $10,848.  Applicant admits the debt
and  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  or  is
being resolved.  The debt remains owing.
j.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $7,155.  Applicant  admits  the  debt  and  provided  no
documentary evidence to show that the debt had been or is being resolved.  The
debt remains owing.
k.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor  for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,720.  Applicant  admits  the  debt  and  provided  no
documentary evidence to show that the debt had been or is being resolved.  The
debt remains owing.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant completed a security clearance application dated September 20, 2022.
In  response  to  Section  26,  Financial  Record  Delinquency
(Government  Exhibit  2.)
Involving  Routine  Accounts  Other  Than  Previously  Listed:  Have  any  of  the  following
happened?  .  .  .  “In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  had  bills  or  debt  turned  over  to  a
collection agency? . . . In the past seven years, have you had any account or credit card
suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed?”  Applicant answered,
“No,”  to  both  questions,  and  failed  to  list  that  he  had  been  delinquent  on  debts  in  the
past  seven  years,  as  noted  in  Guideline  F  above.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation.
Upon  review  of  the  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  failed  to  list  any
indebtedness.  Given his significant debt, it can be presumed that he deliberately sought
to conceal this information from the Government on the application.
During Applicant’s subject interview in February 2023, the investigator confronted
him with the debt by reviewing Applicant’s credit report.  At that time, Applicant admitted
the debt.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that when
he went over the debts  with the investigator, he was told that he could make changes
on  the  security  clearance  questionnaire  if  he  chose  to.  Applicant  did  not  have  any
changes that he wanted to make.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
