In Applicant’s answer, he admitted the Guideline E allegations in the SOR, with
explanations.  In  his  written  answer  to  the  amended  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the
allegation, however, during his hearing testimony, when asked about what his response
to the amended SOR allegation was, he denied it. I take from the evidence that he was
trying  to  explain  that  he  admitted  that  he  was  accused  of  the  conduct,  but  he  denied
engaging  in  the  conduct.  That  is  the  manner  in  which  I  will  consider  this  admission
under Guideline D. As to the Guideline E admissions,  I adopt them as findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following additional findings of fact. (Tr. 11-12; HE I, IV)
Applicant  is  61  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  10  children.  He  works  in
information technology for his current employer.  He holds two bachelor’s degrees. (Tr.
6; 34; GE 1)
Under  Guideline  E,  The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  on  his
October 2021 security clearance application (SCA) when he answered “no” when asked
if in the last seven years he had been fired from a job, quit after being told he would be
fired,  or  left  a  job  by  mutual  agreement  following  allegations  of  misconduct  when  he
failed to disclose that he left his employment in May 2017 by mutual agreement after he
was accused of masturbating in his employer’s bathroom. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
The SOR also alleged that Applicant made false statements to an investigator in
February 2022, during his background interview. Those statements included: that he left
his employment in May 2017 because he secured a job elsewhere; that the reason he
left his employment in May 2017 was not related to conduct or disciplinary action;  and
that  he  left  his  employment  in  May  2017  due  to  personality  differences  with  the  new
manager. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Under  Guideline  D,  the  amended  SOR  alleged  in  May  2017,  Applicant  was
accused of masturbating in the bathroom of this employer, a church. (SOR ¶ 2.a)
From  August  2013  to  May  2017,  Applicant  worked  as  a  network engineer  for a
local church. He and his family were also members of this church. He stated that before
he was employed he had to sign a morals cause. While he did not provide the specific
language of this clause, he stated that it was very strict. His interpretation of the clause
was that an allegation of misconduct alone was sufficient to trigger the clause and end
his employment. In May 2017, he was called to a meeting of the church elder’s and told
he  had  been  accused  of  masturbating  in  the  church’s  bathroom.  He  denied  this  act
before the elders. His accuser(s) was not made known to him and he was unaware if an
investigation took place because of the allegation. If one did occur, he was not apprised
of it. Based upon the allegation, the church terminated his employment. (Tr. 23-24, 28,
36; GE 2)
Applicant  claims  that  the  terms  of  his  termination  were  that  if  he  chose  not  to
dispute the termination, he would receive several weeks of paid insurance after  he left
and  a  small  severance  payment.  Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  want  to  fight  the
termination or cause any trouble for the church. He also believed that he and the church
agreed that if either was asked about the circumstances of his leaving, they would state
that  he  left  for  another  job  rather  than  advance  the  true  reason  he  left,  i.e.,  the
masturbation allegation. (Tr. 23)
In  October  2021,  Applicant  completed  a  SCA  while  working  for  his  current
employer.  In  response  to  questions  about  his  employment  record  (Section  13C),
Applicant was asked whether he had been fired from a job, quit a job after being told he
would  be  fired,  or  if  he  left  a  job  by  mutual  agreement  following  allegations  of
misconduct.  He  answered  “no”  to  this  question.  Earlier  in  the  SCA,  in  Section  13A,
Applicant  listed  his  former  employment  with  the  church.  He  listed  two  reasons  for
leaving  this  employment.  Those  reasons  were  that  he  received  another  job  offer  and
that his contract with the church had ended. He also answered “no” under this section to
the question of whether he left this employment because he had been fired from the job,
quit the job after being told he would be fired, or if he left the job by mutual agreement
following allegations of misconduct.  Applicant admitted he answered  this way because
of  the  agreement  he  had  with  the  church  where  both  parties  would  conceal  the  true
nature of his termination. He claimed he was trying to protect the church’s reputation as
well as his. (Tr. 23-24; GE 1; SOR answer)
In  February  2022,  Applicant  was  interviewed  as  part  of  his  background
investigation.  He  was  asked  why  he  left  the  church’s  employment,  and  he  told  the
investigator  that  he  “received  a  job  elsewhere.”  He  was  then  asked  if  he  had  any
conduct  issues or disciplinary actions when he  was employed  by  the  church,  to  which
he said “no.” He was then told that the investigation revealed that he left the church by
mutual  agreement  due  to  specific  reasons.  Applicant  responded  to  this  by  stating  that
he decided to leave the church by mutual agreement because of personality differences
with his new manager. Applicant then admitted to the investigator that he left by mutual
agreement because he was accused of masturbating in the bathroom at work. Applicant
admitted that it was only after being confronted by the investigator about the true nature
of his termination and his realization that the church had not lived up to their agreement
not  to  disclose  the  true  reason  for  his  termination  that  he  disclosed  the  truth  to  the
investigator. (Tr. 24; GE 2; SOR answer)
Applicant further explained his actions during his hearing testimony as follows:
I understand  that  in  black and  white  it would  look like  I  lied  about  how I  left
[the  church], but I did answer in the  way the  church asked  me  to  and  the
way   I  assumed   the   adjudicator  [sic]  would   get  similar   responses  from
them.  They  promised   me   only  the   best  recommendations.  They,  in   fact,
gave  me  recommendations to  several other jobs that I had  on  the  list.  So  I
the
was  surprised   when
information   that  they  had   answered   differently   then   they  told   me   they
would.  (Tr. 25)
[sic]  presented   me   with
the   adjudicator
Applicant admitted the allegation that  he was accused of masturbating  in
the bathroom of the church, but he denied that he actually did the act itself.  No
other evidence was offered by the Government establishing this allegation under
Guideline D.
