In Applicant’s  answer to the SOR, he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.d and admitted
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  DOD  contractor seeking to maintain  a
security  clearance.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  January  2021.  He
previously worked for another contractor from 2015 to 2021. Prior to that he served on
active  duty  in  the  United  States  Army  from  March  11,  2008,  to  October  6,  2014.  He
deployed to Iraq from August 2009 to July 2010. He received an Honorable Discharge.
He served in the Army Reserve after separating from active duty from 2014 to February
2020. He held a security clearance in the Army. He has a high school diploma and some
college credit. He is divorced and has no children. (Tr. 15-21; Response to SOR; GE 1;
AE B; AE I)
The SOR alleges that Applicant has a history of mental health issues which raise
a security concern, to include:
1.a   In  September  2017,  Applicant  was  admitted  for  mental  health  treatment  at
[Redacted  for  Privacy]  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)  Medical  Center  for  five  days  inpatient
treatment.  He  was  diagnosed  with  major  depressive  disorder,  recurrent,  moderate;
suicidal ideation; and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), chronic. (GE 1 at 37-38; GE
2 at 8)
1.b     Applicant  received  mental  health  treatment  at  the  VA  Medical  Center  from
September  2017  to  April  2019  for  treatment  related  to  suicidal  ideation  and  major
depressive disorder. The record evidence indicates this was outpatient treatment. (GE 2
at 5, 8; GE 6; GE 7)
1.c  In December 2017, Applicant was admitted to [Redacted for Privacy] Hospital
for  three  days  for  depression  and  suicidal  ideation.  He  was  diagnosed  with  major
depressive disorder, severe, recurrent, without psychotic features. He was discharged in
good condition. (GE 1 at 38; GE 2 at 8; GE 5)
1.d   Finally, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed psychologist on June 14, 2021.
The  psychologist  determined  he  had  a  history  of  persistent  depression  and  emotional
dysregulation, which seems to worsen in response to significant psychological stressors.
There  was  concern  he  was  not  engaged  in  psychotherapy  nor  receiving  medication
management although he was open and eager to receive services. If Applicant was able
to receive consistent therapeutic support, his prognosis would be favorable. His emotional
functioning  appeared  to  be  contingent  on  the  level  of  stability  in  his  environment,  as
disruptions in attachment have precipitated his emotional and behavioral dysregulation,
leading  to  impulsive  behaviors  and  safety  concerns.  At  the  time  of  the  evaluation,  he
presented with stability in mood, with absence of clinically significant difficulties that would
interfere with his judgment, reliability and trustworthiness. However, to ensure his stability
over time, engagement in treatment is recommended. (GE 3; GE 4)
Applicant and his wife married in 2008. His deployment in 2010 was not good for
his marriage. He and his wife had poor communication.  Applicant was unfaithful to his
wife. His wife discovered he was unfaithful in April 2017. She moved out of the house in
December 2017.  The divorce was final in October 2019.  Applicant became depressed
because  of  the  break-up  of  his  marriage  and  sought  treatment  in  September  2017
because  he  was  having  suicidal  ideations.  He  made  two  unsuccessful  attempts  to  kill
himself  and  realized  he  needed  help.  He  was  inpatient  for  five  days  and  was  put  on
medication.  He  claims  he  never  received  a  formal  diagnosis,  but  admits  he  was
depressed.  The  medical  records  indicate  he  was  diagnosed  with  major  depressive
disorder, recurrent moderate; suicidal ideation; and PTSD, chronic. (Tr. 21-27; GE 2 at 5,
8; GE 6: GE 7)
Upon  his  discharge,  Applicant  attended  outpatient  treatment  through  the  VA
medical center from September 2017 to April 2019. He met with Ms. R., a therapist with
the VA. He also attended group meetings, Sex Addicts Anonymous meetings, and was
also prescribed anti-depressant and anti-anxiety medication. He attended weekly single
and group therapy. On occasion, he would attend bi-weekly. He felt the therapy was very
beneficial to him. It helped him move on from a period in his life when he felt isolated and
depressed. It also helped him deal with his divorce. The medication helped him stabilize
his mood and thoughts. (Tr. 27-29)
On December 24, 2017, Applicant was admitted to the hospital for depression and
suicidal  ideation.  He  was  diagnosed  with  major  depressive  disorder  severe,  recurrent,
without psychotic features. Applicant testified he does not remember what happened on
December 24th, other than it was a bad day. He woke up in the hospital. The episode was
described  by  medical  personnel  as  transient  global  amnesia.  The  medical  records
indicate  Applicant  came  to  the  hospital because  he  was  depressed  about  his pending
divorce from his wife. At some point before going to the hospital, he texted his wife that
he was going to hang himself. He also believes he contacted his sister but does not recall
what he told her. His sister called 911 and the police took him to the emergency room of
another hospital.  He was transported to the treating hospital via ambulance. (GE 5 at 2,
4; GE 6 at 43-49) He stayed in the hospital for three days. During his stay he spoke to a
doctor on two occasions and attended group therapy sessions. He was also prescribed
medication to stabilize him. He was discharged after three nights in good condition. Ms.
R, his therapist at the VA, was told about this incident. His treatment remained the same.
(Tr. 29-32; GE 5; GE 6 at 43-49)
Applicant’s therapy sessions at the VA taught him strategies on how to cope with
his  depression  and  anxiety  to  include  daily  exercise  and  getting  involved  in  outside
activities. He works out every day. Exercise keeps him motivated and stable. (Tr. 32-33;
AE G; AE T). He is a member of an adult baseball team. (AE R) He also started attending
church services again and participates in young adult gatherings to include barbeques.
He credits his brother and sister with providing support.  (Tr. 33-35, 39; AE F; AE S) In
2017, he did not have a good support network, he has worked on becoming more involved
and now has a good support network. He also has a new girlfriend whom he has known
since 2019 but started dating in 2023. (Tr. 37, 46; AE Q)
During his first hospitalization in September 2017, Applicant lost his right to own
firearms.  In  September 2017,  Applicant petitioned  the  court for Restoration of  Right  to
Own, Possess, Control, Receive or Purchase Firearms. Before the hearing date, he met
with  Dr G., a licensed psychologist,  at least twice.  Dr.  G. assessed  Applicant’s  mental
health  to  determine  whether  he  was  capable  of  safely  possessing  and  using  firearms.
She  prepared  a  report  which  was  submitted  to  the  court.  The  court  found  by  a
preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  Applicant  was  able  to  use  firearms  in  a  safe  and
lawful  manner  and  that  there  was  no  current  danger  to  himself  or  others.  The  court
granted Applicant’s petition on June 5, 2018. (Tr. 77; AE N)
Applicant self-reported his mental health issues on his electronic questionnaire for
investigations  processing  (e-QIP)  on  May  23,  2018.  (GE  1)  He  provided  additional
information  about  his  mental  health  issues  and  treatment  in  response  to  DOHA
Interrogatories, dated June 17, 2022. (GE 2)
Psychological Evaluations and Therapy
At the request of the DOD CAF, Applicant was evaluated by Dr. M.L., a licensed
clinical  psychologist,  on  June  14,  2021.  The  evaluation  was  conducted  on-line  since
Applicant is currently located overseas. The psychologist noted Applicant said he was in
good health and was not taking any form of medication at the time of the interview. He
was also not actively engaged in mental health services, though he reported interest in
pursuing  psychotherapy  supports.  He  stopped  going  to  therapy  in  July  2018  when  he
relocated  to  a  new  city  and  had  difficulty  accessing  services.  He  was  previously
prescribed sertraline and fluoxetine for mood, and hydroxyzine as needed for sleep. He
no longer takes medication. (GE 3; GE 4)
Applicant reported a history of sexual addiction, which began in adolescence with
pornography. He spent approximately four hours per day online. From 2011 to 2013, he
received  treatment  with  a  social  worker.  His  sex  addiction  later  escalated.  He  began
having affairs during his marriage, which ultimately led to his divorce. He reported he has
been “clean and sober” from his sexual addiction for at least three years. He credits his
meetings  with  Sex  Addicts  Anonymous  as  “a  big  part  of  his  recovery.”  He  no  longer
attends  meetings  but  has  developed  insight  surrounding  his  patterns  of  addiction  and
their association with trauma and suppression. (GE 3)
Applicant was described as “open and engaged during the clinical interview.” His
current judgment was assessed to be  clear. His narratives during the clinical interview
and documentation provided by the CAF were highly consistent. Dr. M. L. concluded the
information provided during the assessment is thought to be a valid representation of his
current functioning. (GE 3 at 8)
Applicant completed the Personal Assessment Inventory (PAI), a 344 item, self-
administered objective inventory of adult personality. Applicant’s responses did not result
in any clinically significant elevations across domains that would be suggestive of current
clinical  psychopathology.  His  results  reflected  mid-to-moderate  areas  of  difficulty  in
regard to maladaptive behavior patterns aimed at controlling anxiety. It is consistent with
what would be expected for an individual who experienced a disturbing traumatic event
that contributes to periods of distress and recurrent periods of anxiety. (GE 3 at 8)
Dr.  M.L.  concluded  Applicant  did  not  currently  meet  criteria  for  PTSD,  though
complex  trauma  is  an  important  consideration  in  his  diagnostic  presentation.  Dr.  M.L.
noted  some  indications  of  borderline  personality  traits,  but  she  would  have  to  conduct
additional  tests  to  make  a  conclusion.  His  prolonged  emotional  stability  appears  to  be
contingent on the stability of his environment and relationships which warrants concern
around his propensity for coping in response to stressors. (GE 3 at 10)
Dr.  M.L.  concluded  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  persistent  depression  and
emotional dysregulation, which seems to worsen in response to significant psychosocial
stressors.  Dr. M.L was concerned that he was not engaged in psychotherapy or receiving
any medication management, though he reported being quite open and eager to receive
services  and  has  experienced  barriers  to  accessing  consistent  care.  With  consistent
therapeutic  supports  in  place  to  be  able  to  manage  his  response  to  stressors  in  his
environment,  his  prognosis  is  favorable.  His  emotional  functioning  appears  to  be
contingent on the level of stability in his environment, as disruptions in attachment have
precipitated his emotional and behavioral dysregulation, leading to impulsive behaviors
and  safety  concerns.  Applicant  presents  with  stability  in  mood,  with  an  absence  of
clinically  significant  difficulties  that  would  interfere  with  his  judgment,  reliability,  or
trustworthiness at this time. However, to ensure  his stability  over time, engagement in
treatment is strongly recommended. (GE 3 at 10)
In May 2023, Applicant started attending online counseling sessions with Mr. C.,
Master of Science (MS), Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC). Applicant meets with
Mr. C. once a week, provided it does not interfere with his work schedule. He is working
with  Mr.  C.  on  three  goals.  First,  understanding  and  distinguishing  past  relationship
dynamics  to  develop  healthier  relationship  patterns  in  the  future.  Second,  discussing
ways  to  cope  and  manage  current  relationship  challenges  in  his  life.  Third,  identify
strategies to help through various life changes and transitions. (Tr. 39-42; AE U)
Mr.  C.  provided  a  statement  indicating  that  Applicant  continues  to  engage  in
therapy.  He  has  reviewed  and  discussed  tools  to  reduce  frequency  and  intensity  of
emotions, create daily self-care routines, ways to build/maintain healthy relationships, and
identifying  specific  needs  during  times  of  transitions  such  as  relocation,  relationship
development, and job changes. He has counseled Applicant on strategies related to self-
care  assessment,  values:  self-exploration,  meaningful
relationships,  grounding
techniques, sleep hygiene, and setting boundaries (communication techniques). (AE U)
Applicant was provided a self-care assessment, Generalized Anxiety Disorder – 7
(GAD-7).  He  measured  on  the  GAD-7  assessment  as  “no  to  minimal”  anxiety  range.
Individuals within this range demonstrate minimal to no daily anxiety symptoms that would
impact  their  daily  or  executive  functioning.  He  was  also  given  a  Patient  Health
Questionnaire-9 related to depression. He measured in the  “no to minimal”  depression
range.  This  range  would  indicate  an  individual  has  minimal  difficulties  with  elevated
moods  being  directly  related  to  situational  and/or  expected  stressors  (e.g  strained
relationships, work, society/cultural conflict.) (AE U)
Mr. C. indicated Applicant has made moderate progress since starting therapy. He
states  adjustment  disorder  with  minor  depressive  traits  would  be  most  aligned  with
Applicant’s  reported  symptoms.  He  recommends  Applicant  to  continue  to  engage  in
weekly/bi-weekly  therapy  sessions,  addressing  ongoing  reported  strain  with  stress,
difficulties  with  social/relationship  situations, and professional challenges  which  impact
mood and relate to transitions. (AE U) Applicant testified that he has a great relationship
with  Mr.  C.  He  meets  with  him  between  45  minutes  to  an  hour  each  week  if  his  work
schedule permits.  So  far, he  spent about 11  hours total in counseling  sessions  with  Mr.
C.  and  intends to  keep  seeing  him  even  when  he  transfers  to  his new job  location.  (Tr.
40-41)
On  August  28,  2023,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  Dr.  J.B.C.,  a  licensed
psychologist.  The  evaluation  was  conducted  on-line.  She  reviewed  Applicant’s
background  history  which  is  consistent  with  the  record  evidence  and  Applicant’s
testimony.  She  also  reviewed  the  2021  psychological  evaluation  of  Dr.  M.L.,  who  was
hired by the DOD to assess Applicant’s mental health situation. Dr. J.B.C. states:
As of this evaluation  in  2023, the  client does  not present with  any clinically
significant  difficulties,  maintains  a  stable  mood,  engages in  numerous self-
care techniques to  maintain proper diet,  sleep  hygiene, physical fitness and
emotional  and   spiritual  wellness.  Additionally,  he
routine
psychotherapy and  is engaged  in  a  new relationship.  He  has  gained  a  great
deal of insight  into  his own behaviors and  how those  affect  others as well
as insight into what precipitates depressive symptoms.  (AE  V)
in
is
During the clinical interview, Dr. J.B.C. noted Applicant’s judgment is adequate and
insight is good. He was cooperative and friendly and did not appear to be making efforts
at  deception.  (AE  U  at  3)  Applicant  completed  the  PAI,  a  344  item,  self-administered
objective test of personality and psychopathology. His PAI clinical profile is entirely within
normal limits. According to his self-report, Applicant reported no significant problems in
the  following  areas:  unusual  thoughts  or  peculiar  experiences;  antisocial  behavior;
problems  with  empathy;  undue  suspiciousness  or  hostility;  extreme  moodiness  and
impulsivity; unhappiness and depression; unusually elevated mood or heightened activity;
marked  anxiety;  problematic  behaviors  used  to  manage  anxiety;  and  difficulties  with
health or physical functioning. He also reported no significant problems with alcohol or
drug abuse or dependence.  (AE V at 3)
Dr.  J.B.C.  notes  there  was  an  elevation  on  the  anxiety-related  disorder  scale-
traumatic  stress.  She notes it  is a  one  scale elevation  and  not an overall pattern.  She
discussed  lingering  traumatic  stressors  with  Applicant,  specifically  some  of  the  events
that  occurred  during  his  deployment  to  Iraq  which  trouble  him  at  times.  While  not
physically  injured,  he  was  exposed  to  nearly  daily  rocket  attacks.  He  had  a  close  call
when one landed just outside the entrance to the dining hall while he was finishing lunch.
(AE V at 4)
Applicant also completed  the  SPECTRA:  Indices of Psychopathology, a  brief 96-
item   self-administered,  multiscale   measure  of  psychopathology  and   functioning.  His
score was within normal limits. (AE  V  at 4)
Dr.  J.B.C.  concludes  that  based  on  available  past  medical  and  current  data,
Applicant qualifies for a diagnosis of major depressive order, recurrent, in full remission.
She opines Applicant does not present with any conditions at this time that could pose a
significant risk to his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. He has gained a great deal
of insight into what precipitates his depressive episodes and is able to  identify themes
and  behaviors  that  would  indicate  that  he  may  be  experiencing  another  episode,
therefore, he can prevent that from happening in the future. Applicant is actively engaged
in routine psychotherapy and understands the importance of that type of support. The risk
to judgment and reliability for any future mental health problems is low. (AE V at 4)
Applicant has had no incidents since December 2017. He is still working on issues
related to his divorce, but believes he is doing well. He believes treatment has helped a
lot. (Tr. 41-42)
Matters Not Alleged in the SOR
Department  Counsel  questioned  Applicant  about  several  matters  that  were  not
alleged  in  the SOR.  Because  they  are  not alleged  in  the SOR,  these  matters are  not
considered as disqualifying conduct, though they may be considered to evaluate evidence
of extenuation, mitigation, or changed circumstances, to consider whether an applicant
has demonstrated successful rehabilitation, or as part of a whole-person analysis. ISCR
Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct 26, 2016). I will consider these unalleged matters,
accordingly.
In  2014,  while  on  active  duty,  a  new  First  Sergeant  came  to  Applicant’s  unit.
Applicant did not get along with him. The First Sergeant wrote him up for failure to obey
orders. Applicant had an agreement with the previous First Sergeant that he could leave
work early on Wednesdays to attend his bowling league. He continued to leave early on
Wednesdays. It is not clear whether he sought authorization from his new First Sergeant.
He was written up for leaving work early without prior authorization. (GE 1 at 17; GE 2 at
7)
In April 2018, Applicant was written up at his civilian job for performing an action
without a verifier present. The action required a person to take the action and another
person  to  verify  the  action.  Applicant  had  just  started  a  new  medication  and  was
experiencing side effects including drowsiness.  He performed the action on his own. He
admits his actions could have caused damage. He received a warning for this violation.
Applicant  switched  medications  and  became  more  careful  with  following  policies  and
regulations. (Tr. 49; GE 1 at 15; GE 2 at 7)
In May 2018, Applicant and three co-workers were written up and suspended from
work for not clicking  on  the  satellite  prompt  that said “enable.”  He  and  his  co-workers
read the prompt as saying “enabled.” He was suspended for three days. He is now more
careful  when  reading  satellite  prompts.  He  understands  the  importance  of  his  job  and
takes his job seriously. (Tr. 50-51; GE 2 at 8)
In December 2020, Applicant received a letter from the commander of his reserve
unit informing him that he accumulated nine or more unexcused absences in a one-year
period,  failed  to  attend  or  complete  Annual  Training,  or  failed  to  obtain  a  unit  of
assignment during a leave of absence. He was declared an unsatisfactory participant, in
other words, he had a bad year. As a result, Applicant was transferred from the Selected
Reserve  (SELRES)  to  the  Individual  Ready  Reserve  (IRR).  This  is  an  administrative
action taken against reservists who do not fulfill all of their required training days in a one-
year period. Applicant had the opportunity to appeal this action but opted to be transferred
to the IRR. (GE 8) Applicant testified that he stopped attending drills when he moved to
another city and his work schedule conflicted with drill weekends. (Tr. 52-53) I conclude
this action does not have security significance.
Whole-Person Evidence
Several  friends  and  colleagues  wrote  letters  of  support  for  Applicant.  Mr.  J.C.,
Applicant’s  current  supervisor,  has  worked  with  him  since  March  2021.  He  notes  that
Applicant  has  been  recognized  on  two  occasions  for his  outstanding  performance.  He
achieved  a  satisfactory  score  for  a  COMSEC  folder  inspection.  The  inspecting  unit
mentioned that “The [Unit] team maintains an exemplary COMSEC program.” He was a
member  of  a  two-person  team  which  successfully  implemented  a  “Milstar  Network
Cutover event”.  His efforts ensured the network event transitioned on schedule with no
impact to the mission critical communications system.  Mr. J.C. concludes by saying that
Applicant exemplifies what it means to be dedicated to the mission and takes extreme
pride in his work. He has become a valuable asset to the team in a short amount of time.
(AE A)
Dr. B. is executive director of a facility that works with males who are homeless,
suffer from mental health issues, in probation/parole, and/or struggle with drug addiction.
He has known Applicant for 30 years.  They attended the same elementary school and
high  school.  They  know  each  other’s  families.  At  one  point,  they  were  married  to  two
sisters until Applicant and his wife divorced. He is aware of many of the details of what
Applicant went through during the divorce, but he and his spouse designated him to be
one of three individuals to manage their assets and care for their three daughters should
something happen to them. They chose him because they wanted a person who would
do the right thing for their children. Applicant is honest, responsible and trustworthy. (AE
A)
The pastor of Applicant’s church has known Applicant since May 2021. He attends
Sunday services regularly. He participates in after service barbeques, and attends weekly
Bible  study  sessions  on  Wednesday  evenings  if  his  work  schedule  permits.  He  looks
forward to his spiritual growth and further involvement in the congregation. (AE E)
Applicant’s most recent performance evaluation for the period from May 2022 to
is  “Generally  Meets
April  2023,  is  favorable.  His  overall  performance  rating
Requirements.”  His was noted for maintaining his employer’s high standards of quality
assurance  and  functional area management. He  is consistently  early for all scheduled
work shifts and willing to come in on non-scheduled days if needed. He routinely asks for
things to do or items to accomplish. (AE P) His performance evaluation from May 2021
to April 2022 is equally favorable. (AE D) Applicant’s NCO Evaluation  Reports while in
the reserves met or exceeded standards.  (AE C)
Applicant’s  awards  and   decorations  while  on   active   duty  include   the   Army
Commendation   Medal;  the   Army  Achievement  Medal  (2nd   Award);  Meritorious  Unit
Commendation  Medal; Army Good  Conduct Medal (2nd  Award); National Defense  Service
Medal; Global War on  Terrorism  Service  Medal; Iraq  Campaign  Medal W/ Campaign  Star;
NonCommissioned  Officer (NCO) Professional Development Ribbon; Overseas  Service
Ribbon;   Expert  Markmanship   Badge   W/Grenade   Bar;   Expert  Markmanship  Badge   W/
Pistol Bar; Expert Markmanship Badge  W/ Rifle  Bar; and  Certificate  of Achievement.  (AE
B; AE J)
