In   Applicant’s  answers   to   the   SOR  and   the   amended   SOR,  he   admitted   all   the
allegations. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from March
1996  to  April  2019  when  he  was  involuntarily  retired  with  a  general  discharge  under
honorable conditions. He was a senior chief petty officer (pay grade E-8) when he retired.
He held a security clearance during his military service.
Applicant  was  unemployed  from  April  to  August  2019.  He  worked  for  federal
contractors from August 2019 to July 2023. The record does not reflect the circumstances
of his termination from employment in July 2023. At the time of the hearing, he had been
offered a job by another defense contractor, contingent on favorable adjudication of his
application to continue his security clearance. (Tr. 18)
Applicant married in April 2000 and has two daughters, ages 22 and 18. He and
his wife have lived separately since December 2021, but they are not legally separated.
(Tr. 14-15) He attended college from July to September 2008 but did not receive a degree.
(GX 1 at 10-11; Tr. 15-16)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant has consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to
the point of intoxication, from about May 2017 to at least January 2022. Applicant admitted
this allegation in his answer to the SOR. At the hearing, he testified that he was drinking
every night during this period and that he was “getting close” to drinking every night to the
point of intoxication. (Tr. 25).
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was under the influence of alcohol at the time of
an  incident  that  led  to  nonjudicial  punishment  for  sexual  assault  in  February  2018,  an
incident leading to a charge of assault and battery on a family member in August 2020,
and an incident leading to a charge of assault and battery on a family member in October
2021. These allegations are established by Applicant’s admissions in his answer to the
SOR.
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  for  abusive  sexual  contact  in
October  2017  and  that  the  arrest  occurred  in  the  United  States.  Although  Applicant
admitted this allegation in his answer to the SOR, I doubt that he fully understood what
he was admitting, because when he was asked at the hearing to describe what happened,
he described the sexual assault alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b, which occurred in May 2017, while
he was assigned overseas. (Tr. 19) The FBI arrest record reflects an arrest that occurred
in the United States in October 2017, but it does not list the offense that was the basis for
the arrest. (GX 3) There is no documentary evidence in the record reflecting the basis for
this arrest. I conclude that the part of SOR ¶ 2.a that alleges an arrest is established, but
the part alleging that the arrest was for abusive sexual contact is not established by his
admissions in his answer to the SOR or any evidence in the record.
SOR  ¶  2.b  alleges  that  Applicant  received  nonjudicial  punishment  in  February
2018 for sexual assault in violation of Article 120, Uniform Code of Military Justice. The
assault occurred in May 2017. Applicant and group of fellow sailors were at a party, and
Applicant was intoxicated. He came up from behind a female sailor, hugged her, touched
her breast, and asked her if she would go to bed with him. Applicant appeared before his
commanding  officer,  was  found  guilty  of  a  sexual  assault,  and  received  nonjudicial
punishment  of  a  forfeiture  of  $2,618  of  his pay.  In  March  2018,  he  was  referred  to  an
administrative separation board, which determined that he should be retained in the Navy.
Shortly after Applicant was punished, he was transferred to another command. In
March 2019, he was notified that he was required to retire. He retired in April 2019 and
received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.  (AX  A)  The  Certificate  of
Release  or  Discharge  from  Active  Duty  (DD  Form  214)  recites  that  the  reason  for
separation was “sufficient service for retirement.” (AX A) The DD Form 214 reflects that
during  his  military  service,  he  received  the  Good  Conduct  Medal  (six  awards),
Outstanding Military Volunteer Medal, the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal
(three  awards),  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps  Commendation  Medal,  two  letters  of
appreciation  and  commendation,  and  various  service  medals  and  qualification  badges
and ribbons.
Applicant testified that his marital problems began after his retirement. While on
active duty, he was deployed frequently, and it was not until he was at home for a while
that he realized that his wife and a neighbor were drinking heavily and using drugs during
the  day.  He  believed  that  they  had  been  drinking  and  using  drugs  for  a  couple  years
before his retirement. (Tr. 40)
Applicant  attributed   all  the   domestic  violence   incidents   to   his  heavy  drinking,
followed  by  arguments  with  his wife.  He  testified  that  the  incident alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.c
occurred  in  August 2020, when  he  was working  nights and   came  home  at  about  11:30
pm. He  testified  that his wife  and  her friend  had  been  “getting  wasted  all  day.” He started
drinking  and  began  arguing  with  his wife. His wife  claimed  that  he  pushed  her, and  he
claimed  that he  pushed  her away when  she  was screaming  “in  his face.” His wife  called
the police, and  they  told  him, “they got to  take  somebody,” and  he  was arrested. (Tr. 26-
27)
The domestic incident in October 2021, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, was another instance
of heavy drinking, arguing, and fighting. Applicant’s wife accused him of throwing a beer
can at her. Applicant’s daughter called the police, and they arrested Applicant for assault
and  battery on  a  family  member. (Tr.  29) At  a  court hearing  a  couple  of  months  later,
adjudication was deferred, conditioned on good behavior for two years. (Tr. 30)
Applicant testified that he stopped drinking heavily after he and his wife separated.
He testified that he now limits himself to a couple beers while watching football and no
longer drinks hard liquor. He has not received any formal counseling or treatment for his
alcohol consumption. He is not involved with Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) or any similar
organization. (Tr. 33-34, 42)
