In  Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a, 2.a, and
2.b.   (HE   3)  He  also  provided   mitigating   information.   His   admissions   are   accepted   as
findings  of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant is a 40-year-old staff electrical engineer who has worked for his current
employer, a defense contractor, for five years. (Tr. 30, 32; AE H) In 2006, he received a
bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 31; AE C) In 2008, he was awarded a master’s degree in electrical
engineering. (Tr. 31; AE C) He has been married for 14 years, and his two children are
four years old and eight years old. (Tr. 31-32) He has not served in the military. (Tr. 32)
He has held a security clearance for eight years. (Tr. 33) His resume provides a detailed
description of his professional accomplishments. (AE N)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges on at least three occasions in 2011 and 2012, Applicant stole
his mother’s or his father’s Vicodin (hydrocodone) and then used the medication. In 2011,
Applicant had two surgeries. (Tr. 43) He was prescribed hydrocodone for pain after both
surgeries. (Tr. 43) In 2011 or 2012, he took three hydrocodone pills from an old bottle in
the bathroom. (Tr. 43) The pills were prescribed for his father. (Tr. 43) He used the three
hydrocodone  pills on  three  occasions  in 2011  or 2012.  (Tr. 43) He took  the  three  pills
because he was coming off of his prescription for hydrocodone, and he believed he would
feel better. (Tr. 44) He had a valid prescription for hydrocodone on the first two occasions
in  which  he  used  his  father’s  prescription,  and  his father’s  prescription  was  at  a  lower
dosage  than  his  own  prescription.  (Tr.  44)  He  did  not  ask  for  his  father’s  permission
because he knew what he was doing was wrong, and he knew he would feel ashamed.
(Tr. 45) He rationalized that he was borrowing the pills, and then later after he took the
pills, he elected not to tell his father. He took the third pill after his prescription expired
because he was feeling a “bit sluggish” and wanted to feel better. (Tr. 46)
In  2016  and  2017,  Applicant was  prescribed  hydrocodone  after two  surgeries. (Tr.
46) He complied  with  the  terms of those  prescriptions. (Tr. 47) On  September 3,  2018,  he
completed  an  SCA,  which asked  two  questions relevant to  his Vicodin  use: (1) “Have  you
EVER  illegally  used   or  otherwise  been   illegally  involved   with   a   drug   or  controlled
substance  while possessing  a  security clearance  other than  previously listed?”; and  “In
the last seven years, have you intentionally engaged in the misuse  of prescription  drugs,
regardless of whether or not  the  drugs were   prescribed  for you  or someone  else?” He
answered,  “No,”  to   both   questions.  (GE  4   at  45)  He  failed   to   disclose   any  misuse   of
Vicodin  on this SCA. (Tr. 41)  Falsification of  his 2018 SCA was not alleged in the  SOR.
to   classified
information,  he   used
SOR ¶  1.a  alleges, and  Applicant  admitted,  in  about October  2020,  while granted
the   prescription   medication   Vicodin
access
(hydrocodone), th  at was not prescribed  to  him.  (Tr. 34)  SOR ¶  2.a alleges  and  Applicant
admitted  in about October 2020, he  stole his aunt’s Vicodin  (hydrocodone) and  then  used
the  Vicodin. (Tr. 35) In  October 2020, he went to  his aunt’s residence to water her plants
while she  was away.  (Tr. 55) He  went  to  the  bathroom  and  found  a  bottle  of  Vicodin.  He
took four Vicodin  pills out of  the  bottle. (Tr. 35) He was not thinking  about his security
clearance  when  he  used  the  Vicodin.  (Tr. 34) He was depressed  and  anxious because  of
problems in his relationships with  his spouse  and  parents,  and  due  to  isolation  during  the
pandemic. (Tr.  35, 53) He wanted  to  take  “some  kind  of mental  health  break.”  (Tr. 57) He
used   two   Vicodin  on   two  separate   days.  (Tr.  35-36,  56-57)  He  felt  more  relaxed;  his
anxiety   was   reduced;  he  felt   a   little dizzy; and  he   did   not   feel like   doing   anything   after
taking  the  Vicodin. (Tr. 56) He did  not drive  or go  to  work after taking  the  Vicodin.  (Tr. 57-
58) He was mostly teleworking  during  the  pandemic. (Tr. 57) He acknowledged  that he
made  a bad decision. (Tr. 35) He admitted what he did was wrong. (Tr. 37)
Every four or five weeks for the last three years, Applicant has met with a therapist.
(Tr.  49;  AE  R)  His  support  system  has  improved  in  the  last  three  years.  (Tr.  50)  His
relationships  with  his  spouse  and  brother  have  improved.  (Tr.  51)  On  April  3,  2023,  a
licensed social worker provided a chemical dependency assessment of Applicant. (AE A)
The social worker said:
Even though [Applicant’s] past use of pain medication is alarming and very
serious in  nature, given  he  has  not used  any opioids  in the  past 24  months,
I have  very few concerns about the  limited  scope  of medication  abuse  he
acknowledged. Having  carefully considered  the  drug  use  he  was  willing  to
admit  to  and  the  nature  by  which this substance abuse has been  revealed,
there  are  no  substance  abuse-focused  treatment  intervention  that  I feel are
essential for [Applicant’s] situation at this time.
* * *
Without any basis for a  DSM-5  alcohol or substance  use  disorder,  I have  no
treatment recommendations for [Applicant] at this time. (AE A  at 2-3)
In March 2023, Applicant told his aunt about taking her Vicodin pills. (Tr. 36-37)
She did not notice the pills were missing. (Tr. 38) She was very gracious about his theft
of her Vicodin, and she thanked him for telling her. (Tr. 38) He does not intend to use
Vicodin in the future because he believed his Vicodin use was unhealthy and contrary to
the best interests of his family and career. (Tr. 38)
Applicant  has  gone  to  counseling  and  concluded  that  his  relationship  with  his
parents  is  over.  (Tr.  39)  Applicant  and  his  spouse  disagree  with  his  parents’  political
views. (Tr. 52) His parents tend to lecture their children about why their political beliefs
are erroneous. (Tr. 52) Applicant is more mature now than he was in 2020. (Tr. 39) He
relies  on  coping  mechanisms  he  has  learned  and  on  his  faith  to  “live  every  day  with
purpose.” (Tr. 39-40)
In his August 5, 2022 SCA, Applicant said he did not misuse prescription drugs;
however,  in  the  comments  he  said  he  took  four  Vicodin  pills  from  his  aunt  while
housesitting. (GE 1) He indicated in his SCA that he did not believe this conduct raised a
security concern. (GE 1) In his response to DOHA interrogatories, he disclosed that he
took a few Vicodin pills  from  his parents in the  second half of 2011  and the  first three
months of 2012. (GE 2)
The reason Applicant answered, “No,” on his SCA was because he was in denial
about the seriousness of his misuse of Vicodin. (Tr. 41; GE 2 at 8) However, he wanted
to have a clean conscience and elected to disclose the misuse of the Vicodin on his SCA.
(Tr. 41)
On March 22, 2023, Applicant provided a statement in which he promised to “never
use or abuse non-prescribed drugs or any other drugs in the future.” (AE B) He continued,
“If  I  fail  to  adhere  to  this  statement,  I  consent  to  automatic  revocation  of  my  security
clearance.” (AE B) He does not associate with users of illegal drugs. (GE 2 at 8)
On July 21, 2023, Applicant provided a hair sample, which tested negative for the
presence  of evidence  of illegal drug  use. (AE  O) “Hair  drug  testing  can  typically detect
drug use up to 90 days in the past” starting seven to ten days after use.  (Id.)
On August 17, 2023, a psychologist evaluated Appellant’s mental health. (AE S)
The psychologist concluded that Applicant “does not present with evidence of behavioral
or  personality  patterns,  or  mental  health  conditions  that  could  reasonably  degrade  his
reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment in the context of protecting classified information
and/or working in a cleared settling.” (AE S at 8)
Applicant has not violated the terms of any prescriptions for use of drugs or used
someone else’s prescription drugs after October 2020. (Tr. 47-48) He assured he will not
violate the terms of prescription for use of drugs in the future because violating rules for
taking prescription drugs made him feel terrible, and he wants to be able to provide for
his  family  and  avoid  possible  adverse  health  effects.  (Tr.  47-49)  He  has  never  been
arrested, and  aside  from  the  SOR  allegations,  he has never used  an  illegal drug after
becoming an adult. (Tr. 59) He understands the responsibilities and obligations that come
with  holding  a  security  clearance,  and  he  considers  himself  to  be  an  honest  and
trustworthy person of high moral character. (Tr. 53-54)
Character Evidence
A  coworker,  who  has  known  Applicant  for  five  years,  described  him  as  highly
qualified,  diligent,  mission  oriented,  honest,  careful  with  classified
information,
professional, and an asset to his company. (Tr. 12-16; AE I) Applicant’s supervisor has
known Applicant for 30 months. (Tr. 23-24) He described Applicant as diligent, productive,
honest, and trustworthy. (Tr. 25-28; AE I; AE L) They recommended that Applicant retain
his security clearance. (Tr. 17, 29)
Applicant  provided  four  written  statements  from  coworkers  who  did  not  make
verbal statements on his behalf at his hearing. (AE I) The general sense of their letters is
that Applicant is professional, productive, reliable, trustworthy, and responsible. (AE I)
Applicant  received  outstanding  performance  reviews.  (AE  L)  He  completed
numerous  continuing  education  and  training  courses,  and  he  received  certificates  for
achievements and for completion of the courses. (AE F; AE K; AE P; AE Q) He received
cash awards, recognition awards, and recognition points for outstanding work on behalf
of his employer. (AE G; AE J; AE M)
