Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.  He  admitted  the  SOR
allegations in ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d.  His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36  years old.  He earned  associates degrees  in 2006  and  2013  and  a
bachelor’s  degree   in   2016.   He   married   in  2010   and   has   three   minor  children.  He   has
worked for his current  employer, a federal contractor,  since  July 2020. (Item 3)
In  January  2022,  Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF 86). Section 23 asked about prior illegal drug use or drug activity. Applicant
disclosed that he used marijuana daily from May 2001 to January 2022. In response if he
intended to use this drug or controlled substance in the future, he responded “yes.” He
provided comments as follows:
I have been smoking for a long time. I have the ability to stop smoking when
needed and can go without but I like the calming feeling in the evening after
a stressful day. It also greatly helps me sleep.
This  is  the  only  section  of  the  entire  process  I  am  worried  about.  I
understand  how  my  choice  to  smoke  will  weight  [sic]  in  as  part  of  the
decision. To be 100% honest, I would like to continue to smoke as I believe
it does not affect my integrity or patriotism. (Item 3)
Section 23 also asked if, in the past seven years, Applicant had been involved in
the illegal purchase of a drug or controlled substance. He responded that he purchased
marijuana from September 2001 to November 2021 every few months. He said his reason
for  purchasing  it  was  because,  “To  get  marijuana  to  smoke  to  help  stress  and  sleep.”
Section 23 also asked if Applicant intended to engage in this activity in the future, and he
responded, “yes.” He said, “I would like to continue smoking so I would have to continue
to purchase.” (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed that he participated in counseling as a result of his illegal use
of  drugs  or  a  controlled  substance.  He  reported  he  was  ordered  by  his  employer  to
complete an online drug course. He stated, “After a positive random test at my previous
employer,  I  had  to  take  an  online  course  about  drugs.  I  completed  the  course  and  no
further action was needed.” (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed on his SF 86 that he was arrested in 2005 for possession of
marijuana. He pleaded guilty and served a week in jail. He completed the terms of his
sentence. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant was interviewed under oath by a government investigator in March 2022.
In his response to government interrogatories in November 2022, he authenticated his
statement to the government investigator. (Item 4)
Applicant told the investigator that he began using marijuana in May 2001 and has
used it almost daily since then. He likes the way it makes him feel. From May 2001 to
2010 he used it with a friend and other random people at parties. From 2010 to the date
of  his  interview,  he  used  it  by  himself  or  with  his  wife  or  half-brother.  His  mother  also
smokes  marijuana,  and  he  uses  it  with  her.  He  does  not  use  it  with  any  others.  He
explained he uses it nightly to relax and aid with sleep. He believes it helps him sleep and
alleviates some of his asthma symptoms. (Item 4)
Applicant further disclosed that he purchases about an ounce of marijuana from
his half-brother every two months for about $200. His last purchase, at the time of the
interview, was February 2022. He explained his half-brother is not a marijuana dealer but
buys it for personal use and sells it to him. (Item 4)
Applicant  does  not  believe  he  experiences  any  specific  stressors  that  cause
tension and does not believe he suffers from any anxiety or other condition which could
be  treated  by  a  medical  professional  in  lieu  of  marijuana.  He  has not  attempted  to  try
other techniques to help him relax because marijuana is effective. He is not specifically
anxious without using marijuana but enjoys the relaxation he gets from using it. (Item 4)
Applicant explained that his prior place of employment conducted a random drug
test in February 2019, and he tested positive for marijuana use. He admitted his use when
the  positive  results  were  reported.  His  supervisor  expressed  surprise  at  the  positive
results. He took an online drug education course required by his employer because he
was worried he would be fired. He completed the course, and no further action was taken
by his employer. He has never received any drug treatment. The course he took did not
include a drug assessment, counseling, or treatment. (Item 4)
Applicant told the investigator that he does not use any other illegal drugs, except
marijuana.  He  does  not  associate  with  any  other  illegal  drug  users,  except  his  family
members.  Marijuana  use  has  not  negatively  impacted  his  work,  even  when  he  tested
positive  at  his  work.  It  does  not  impact  his  physical  or  emotional  health,  judgment,  or
reliability. He has never been diagnosed as drug dependent and has never felt dependent
on marijuana and he can stop when he wants to with no difficulties. (Item 4)
Applicant  further  reported  that  he  has  stopped  using  marijuana  on  multiple
occasions  for  approximately  three  months,  specifically  when  he  was  changing  jobs
because of  the potential he would have  to participate in a  drug  screening.  He told  the
investigator that he stopped using marijuana for seven to eight months before accepting
his current employment. Once he obtains the employment and successfully passes the
drug screen, he resumes his marijuana use. (Item 4)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  would  like  to  continue  his  marijuana  use
while holding a security clearance, as he does not use it during the day and has never
used it in the workplace. If he was required to choose, he would cease using it to obtain
a security clearance. He said his wife would also stop using it, as she only occasionally
smokes marijuana with him. He would ensure he was not in the presence of his mother
or half-brother when they used it but would continue to interact with them because of his
family relationship. (Item 4)
Applicant said that he has considered whether he should stop using marijuana due
to his age and because his children are getting older, and the potential health risks. He
said he may stop using marijuana at some point in the long-term future but  he did not
have a date or a plan to actually stop. He is aware that his use and purchase of marijuana
are illegal, but he continues use and purchase marijuana because he likes the feeling he
gets from smoking it. (Item 4)
Applicant updated his responses regarding his marijuana use and purchase in his
government interrogatories of November 2022. He was asked if he had used marijuana
since March 16, 2022. He stated he had used marijuana from that date to mid-June 2022
almost  daily.  He  then  reported  he  used  marijuana  from  September  23,  2022,  to  the
present (November 3, 2022). He disclosed that on September 23,  2022, he purchased
marijuana from a legal dispensary in another state while visiting there. He said he stopped
purchasing marijuana over the summer for three and a half months because he did not
want to make illegal purchases anymore. A question asked if he had in his possession
any marijuana? His response was that he had “some flower and a bowl in my garage.”
He confirmed that he has been with his wife, mother, and half-brother, who all continued
to smoke marijuana. (Item 4)
Applicant’s  interrogatory  responses  also  included  his  present  employer’s  drug
policy that employees shall not be under the influence or in possession of a controlled
substance while on the job or on company property. He also disclosed he was drug tested
by his current employer as a new hire. He said he was not informed as to the results of
the test. (Item 4)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  said  he  stopped  smoking  marijuana  in
November 2022. He disputed that he had access to classified information. He stated at
that time a decision had not been made about his security clearance eligibility. If he had
been granted a clearance, he would have stopped smoking immediately. He stated he
had stopped smoking for four months and did not plan to continue to use marijuana in the
future. He further stated he made marijuana purchases over the years and the last was
in  September  2022  from  a  legal  dispensary.  He  said  he  did  not  intend  to  purchase
marijuana in the future. (Item 2)
Marijuana was illegal in the state where Applicant lived and purchased it. In the
November 2023 election, the state voted to make it legal for recreational use beginning
in 2024. ([State] Revised Code Section 3780)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  he  denied  having  access  to  classified
information. He stated he has been open and honest about his past marijuana use. He
said that during his interview process he expressed that he would stop smoking marijuana
as  a  condition  of  his  security  clearance  decision.  He  stated  that  he  stopped  using
marijuana in November 2022. He stated, “The combination of this process and my kids
getting  older  has  brought  much-needed  awareness  to  my  use.  Also,  not  smoking  for
several months has made me  realize  I  don’t need  it.” He  further stated, “I feel my past
use will not affect the future of my ability to handle secure information or my allegiance to
my country.” (AE A)
