Applicant is a  39-year-old employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  served  on  active
duty   in  the   U.S.   military  from   2003   until  he   was   discharged   with   a   general   under
honorable  conditions  discharge   in   2009.  He   has  worked   for  his  current  employer  or  a
predecessor   company   on   the   same   contract   since   2009.   He   seeks   to   retain   a   security
clearance,  which   he   has  held   since   he   served   in  the   military.   He  is  a   high   school
graduate.  He  has never married. He has one  child.  (Transcript  (Tr.)  at 22-23, 27-28, 46-
47; GE 1)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct.  He  was  arrested  in  1999,  when  he
was about 14 years old, and charged with felony burglary, graffiti, and criminal mischief.
He  and  some  friends  broke  into  an  elementary  school,  stole  several  items,  and  spray
painted  a  building.  In  2000,  when  he  was  about  15,  he  was  charged  with  terroristic
threat  and  deadly  conduct.  He  shot  a  mail  truck  with  a  BB  gun.  He  was  placed  on
probation. (Tr. at 23-26; GE 6)
Applicant submitted a security clearance application in December 2002 when he
was going through the enlistment process.  He did not report his  criminal conduct as a
juvenile because his recruiter told him it was not required. (Tr. at 12, 26-27; GE 9)
Applicant  had   alcohol-related   disciplinary  problems  in  the   military.  In   January
2005, he  drove  to the front gate of a  military installation  while drunk. He was arrested  for
driving   under  the   influence   (DUI).  He  admitted   that  he   was  intoxicated,   and   his  blood
alcohol   concentration   (BAC)   was  about  .2%.  He   pleaded   guilty  in   front   of  a   federal
magistrate   and   was  sentenced
in  an   alcohol
education/treatment program  as directed, and  a  $25  special  assessment.  (Tr. at 13,  28-
32; Applicant’s response to  amended  SOR; GE 6)
to   probation,   participation
Drinking  was  prohibited  while  Applicant  was  deployed  to  Bahrain  in  2008.  In
August 2008, he drank with some other servicemembers and got into an altercation. He
was required to attend a two-week outpatient substance abuse program. (Tr. at 13-14,
31-33; Applicant’s response to amended SOR)
Applicant  had  another  alcohol-related  incident  in  December  2008.  He  was
drinking  and  got  in  a  fight  outside  a  bar.  He  was  discharged  with  a  general  under
honorable conditions discharge as an alcohol rehabilitation failure. (Tr. at 14-15, 33-35;
Applicant’s response to amended SOR)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  December  2014  and  charged  with  driving  while
intoxicated  (DWI).  He  admitted  that  he  was  drinking  and  “doing  donuts”  on  the  beach
when his truck got stuck in the sand. He refused a breathalyzer test. He was accepted
into a pretrial diversion program in August 2016. The charge  was dismissed in August
2017  following  the  completion  of  the  pretrial  diversion  program.  (Tr.  at  16,  21,  36-38;
Applicant’s response to amended SOR; GE 7)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
October  2015.  (GE  5)  He  did  not  report  any  of  his  criminal  charges  under  any  of  the
questions, including questions that asked:
In the  past seven (7) years  have  you  been  arrested  by any police  officer,
sheriff, marshal or any other type  of law enforcement official?
In  the   past  seven  (7)  years   have   you   been   charged,  convicted,  or
sentenced of a crime in any court?
Are you currently on trial or awaiting trial on criminal charges?
Have   you   ever   been   charged   with   any  felony  offense?   (Include   those
under the  Uniform  Code  of Military  Justice  and  non-military/civilian  felony
offenses)  and
Have you  ever been charged with  an  offense involving  alcohol or  drugs?
Applicant testified  that  he  did not  intentionally  provide  false information  on  the  SF
86.  He   stated   that   he   put  “no”   to   every  question   under  the   assumption   that  the
government  already knew everything  about him. (Tr. at  15-16)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  January  2021.  The  police  report  indicates  that  three
men  reported  that  they  worked  in  a market in  an  area  where burglaries  had occurred.
An individual later identified as Applicant pulled his vehicle into the back of the market.
They were suspicious and followed him home after he left. They went up to him after he
pulled  into  his  driveway.  They  described  Applicant  as  belligerent  and  yelling,  and  he
then  pulled  out  a  shotgun  and  loaded  it.  One  of  the men  reported  that  Applicant  said,
“I’ve  got  something  for  you,”  and  pointed  the  shotgun  at  him.  Applicant  then  fired  the
shotgun at the man’s vehicle, damaging a tire with the birdshot. Another man stated that
Applicant  pointed  the  shotgun  at  him,  kicked  him,  and  struck  his  truck’s  tail  lamp  with
the shotgun, damaging the vehicle. (GE 2)
Applicant  was  charged  with  three  felony  counts  of  aggravated  assault  with  a
deadly weapon. He was required to wear an ankle monitor. In June 2021, an indictment
was  filed;  Applicant’s  attorney  entered  an  appearance;  a  $40,000  bond  was  set;  and
Applicant had an arraignment hearing. He was admitted into the state’s veterans court
program  in  September  2022  and  received  a  pretrial  diversion  program  for  24  months.
He  handwrote  a  non-judicial  confession  as  follows:  “Got  chased  to  my  house  by  3  or
more individuals – I was intoxicated and when things [calmed] down, they walked away
and I shot their truck with my shotgun because I was upset.” (Tr. at 18; GE 2-4)
Terms  of  the  pretrial  diversion  program  include  that  Applicant  report  to  a
supervision officer at least once a month; not commit any crime; not travel out of state;
abstain  from  alcohol  and  illegal  drugs;  undergo  screening  and  evaluation  and  any
alcohol  or  drug  rehabilitation  program  ordered  by  the  probation  department;  complete
an  anger  management  program;  submit  to  a  random  urinalysis;  perform  180  hours  of
community service; observe a curfew from 9:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.; grant permission for
any probation or pretrial services officer to enter his dwelling at any time to search the
premises; and pay $850 as a veterans treatment court fee. If he successfully completes
the program, the charges will be dismissed. (Tr. at 18, 44-45; GE 2)
Applicant’s  current  version   of  the   January  2021   events  differs  from   the   three
men’s  statements   and   from   his  own  non-judicial  confession.  On   March   20,  2023.  he
wrote  in his response to  DoD  interrogatories:
On   1/12/21   I   went duck  hunting   for the   majority  of  the  day and   then   to   a
restaurant to  have  dinner. After dinner I drove  to  a  fish  market  and  marina
to  visit a  friend  who  had  a  houseboat at the  back of  the  small  property. At
this point I  was unaware that the  property had  been  burglarize[d]  recently.
I  drove   my   truck  to   the   back  of  the   property  where  the   houseboat  is
located,  I   realized   the   person   I   was   there   to   see   was  not   at   the   boat.   At
this  point  it  was   dark  out,   I  turned   my   truck   around   to   leave   and   drove
back the way  I came.
Upon   getting   back  to   the   parking   lot   three   men   came   out  of  the   building
and   continued   to   walk  towards  my  truck  in an   aggressive  manner   yelling
as I  was leaving  the  property.  I could  see  the  men  get in  their  trucks and
start to follow me  as  I drove  away.  I  started  to  speed up  as  they got  closer,
the  situation  turned  into  an  aggressive and  fast chase, I  started  to  fear for
my safety.
They  continue[d]   to   chase   me   back  to   my   house   and   to   my  driveway
where I  exited my  vehicle and  went  inside  my  garage  with my shotgun  that
I had  in my truck from  duck hunting. Two  trucks pulled  up  to  my driveway
and  house,  one  of the  men  got  out [and] walked  up  my driveway and  into
my  garage   in   an   aggressive  and   threatening   manner.  At  that  point  I  was
afraid  for  my  life   and   my  family  inside   the   house.  I  loaded   the   shotgun
pointing   it  at  the   man   in  my  garage,  yelled   at  the   man   to   get  out   of  my
garage  and  off  my property. He turned  around  and  walked  back down my
driveway as I  follow[ed]  from  a  distance. At this point I was  yelling  at the
men   to   leave,  I   was   scared,   the   circumstances   had   my  adrenaline
pumping  giving me shakes.
That  is  when   the   gun   that  was  pointed   down   misfired   and   hit  one   of  the
truck[’]s  wheels  a   few   feet  away   at   the   end   of   my  driveway.   One   of   the
other  men  got out of another truck  [and] chased  me  back to  my house, I
felt  threatened   and   kicked   at   the   man   yelling   at   him   to   leave.  I  hit  the
taillight with  the  butt  of  the  shotgun  and  broke  the  taillight.  The  men  drove
away in  their  trucks  and  shortly  after  the  police  arrived.  (I  have  broken  one
long   paragraph   down   into   four   shorter  paragraphs   for   ease   of   reading.)
(GE 4)
Applicant’s  testimony  was  not  completely  consistent  with  his  above  statement.
He stated that he went duck hunting earlier in the day and had some drinks, but he was
not  intoxicated  during  the  incident.  He  stated  that  he  was  duck  hunting  for  10  to  12
hours  and  had  “[n]o  more  than  maybe  one  [drink]  per  hour.”  He  stated  the  shotgun
discharged accidentally when one of the men started fighting with him. He admitted that
he  hit  one  of  the men’s  truck  with  the  butt  of  his shotgun, and  he  “maybe  punched  or
kicked  one  of  the  other  guys.”  He  stated  that  he  wrote  in  the  non-judicial  confession
“what the lawyer told [him] to write down.” (Tr. at 16-18, 38-43)
The DoD learned of the 2021 arrest through the Continuous Evaluation Program.
On  February  5,  2021, the  DoD  reported  the  arrest  in  the  Defense  Information  System
for  Security  (DISS)  and  requested  an  incident  report  on  the  arrest,  with  supporting
documentation. (GE 8)
Applicant  submitted an  SF 86  in July 2021.  (GE 1)  He did not report any of his
criminal charges under any of the questions, including questions that asked:
In the past seven (7) years have you been arrested by any police officer,
sheriff, marshal or any other type of law enforcement official?
In  the  past  seven  (7)  years  have  you  been  charged,  convicted,  or
sentenced of a crime in any court?
Are you currently on trial or awaiting trial on criminal charges?
Have  you  ever  been  charged  with  any  felony  offense?  (Include  those
under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and non-military/civilian felony
offenses)
Have  you  ever  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  firearms  or
explosives? and
Have you ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs?
Applicant denied that he intentionally provided false information on the SF 86. He
stated his attorney told  him that he did not have to report the 2021  arrest because he
had  not  been  charged  or  convicted.  He  did  not  have  a  good  explanation  for  why  he
failed  to  divulge  the  arrest.  Additionally,  he  had  not  been  convicted,  but  he  had  been
charged  and  an  arraignment  hearing  was  held  in  June  2021,  the  month  before  he
submitted the SF 86. He stated that he forgot about the older  charges; he thought the
government already knew about the information; and the 2014 DUI had been dismissed
and it was past the seven-year reporting period. (Tr. at 18-22)
I did not find Applicant credible. I find the police report of the 2021 arrest to be far
more reliable than Applicant’s recent versions of the events. His recent descriptions of
the  January  2021  events  are  not  logical;  there  are  inconsistencies  between  his
response  to  interrogatories  and  his testimony;  and  his  response  to  interrogatories  and
testimony are both inconsistent with his non-judicial confession  (three distinct versions
of how the shotgun was fired). I also find that he intentionally provided false information
about  the  incident  in  his  response  to  interrogatories  when  he  stated  the  shotgun
“misfired.” I further find he intentionally provided false information on the 2015 and 2021
SF 86s (discussed further in the analysis).
Applicant submitted letters attesting to his excellent job performance and strong
moral character. He is praised for his attention to detail, leadership, respect for others,
work ethic, and trustworthiness,  He is described as  “a family-oriented person  who has
always presented himself with levelheadedness and grace.” (AE A-C)
