In Applicant’s  answer to the SOR, he admitted the single allegation in the SOR.
His admission is incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a  32-year-old scientific  technician, employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since   May  2020.   He  received  a   bachelor’s degree   in  June   2014, a   master’s  degree   in
August  2019, and  a   doctorate   in  May  2021,   all   from   the   same  university  in  the   United
States.  He  is employed  as  the director  of  experimental testing at the  university  where  he
received  his education. He has never married  and  has no children.
In  Applicant’s  SCA  (FORM  Item  3),  he  reported  that  he  had  never  previously
undergone a background investigation or applied for a security clearance. He disclosed
eight foreign nationals with whom he has continuing contact, including a Russian national
who was his academic advisor for his doctoral education. He explained that there were
many foreign nationals in graduate school, and that he listed in his SCA only those with
whom he was in contact for extended periods or who are currently active friends.
Applicant stated that his advisor for part of his doctoral work was a Russian citizen.
He  continues  to  work  with  his  former  advisor  on  a  regular  basis,  because  his  current
employer collaborates on  research projects with  his former advisor’s research group  at
the  university where Applicant  received  his doctorate. He  stated  that his relationship  with
his former advisor is professional and  personal. He explained, “He  is a  mentor which  is
more  than just professional.”
Applicant  also  explained  that  his former advisor “has  always been  a  researcher
and  some  of  that  may  have  been  involved  or  affiliated  with  [the]  Russian/Soviet
government or defense since he spent his whole life in Russia until roughly 2013.” (FORM
Item 3 at 33-35) His former advisor’s biography reflects that he  received a doctorate  in
1990 and a senior doctorate in 2006 from Russian institutions. He worked in educational
institutions  in  Russia  and  was  a  department  head  at  one  of  the  institutions.  He  is
concurrently a professor at a Russian university. (FORM Item 4; FORM Item 5)
Applicant was the co-author of a few papers that his former advisor presented at
international  conferences.  (FORM  Item  41)  His  former  advisor  told  him  that  he  could
obtain a post-doctorate position for him at a European university, because he had spent
most of his career in Europe and had connections. (FORM Item 3 at 40)
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in April 2022, he told
the investigator that he believed his mentor was a dual U.S.-Russian citizen, but he was
not sure. He also believed that his former advisor had worked on projects with the U.S.
Air Force while he was in Russia, but he was unfamiliar with the details. (FORM Item 6 at
2-3)
The  Russian  Federation  has  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system
dominated by President Putin. The bicameral federal assembly consists of a directedly-
elected  lower house  and  an  appointed  upper house,  both of  which lack  independence
from the executive. The 2018 presidential election and the 2021 lower house elections
were marked by accusations of government interference and manipulation of the electoral
process,  including  the  exclusion  of  meaningful  opposition  candidates.  The  Russian
government uses arbitrary designations, criminal convictions, and administrative barriers
to  disqualify  potential  opposition  candidates,  ensuring  that  no  independent  voices  can
participate in government processes.
In response to the 2014 Russian violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial
integrity,  the  United  States  suspended  the  Bilateral  Presidential  Commission,  a  body
jointly founded in 2009 by the United States and Russian to promote cooperation between
the two countries. Russia has attempted to position itself as a competitor to the United
States  by  undermining  norms  within  the  existing  international  system,  aiming  to
undermine core institutions of the West, such as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
(NATO) and the European Union, and to weaken faith in the democratic and free-market
system.
Russia is one of the top three most aggressive and capable collectors of economic
information and technological intelligence from U.S. sources. Russia provides military and
missile  technologies  to  countries  of  security  concern,  including  China,  Iran,  Syria,  and
Venezuela. Russian military programs continue to be driven by the perception that the
United  States  and  NATO  are  its  principal  strategic  challenges  and  greatest  potential
threat.
Russia  uses  cyber  operations  as  an  instrument  of  intelligence  collection,  using
sophisticated  and  large-scale  hacking  to  collect  sensitive  information,  influence  the
political  process  in  the  United  States,  and  undermine  Euro-Atlantic  unity.  Russia  also
uses  commercial  and  academic  enterprises  that  interact  with  the  West,  recruitment  of
Russian immigrants with advanced technical skills, and penetration of public and private
enterprises to obtain sensitive technical information. The areas of highest interest include
alternative  energy,  biotechnology,  defense  technology,  environmental  protection,  high-
end  manufacturing,  and  information  and  communications  technology.  Russian  agents
have been involved in intrusions and hacking affecting U.S. citizens, corporate entities,
international organizations, and political organizations in the United States.
Relations  between   the   United   States  and   Russia   have   deteriorated   significantly
since  Russia’s invasion  of Ukraine.  The  United  States  has  imposed  sanctions on  senior
members  of  the   Russian   government  and   has  imposed   restrictions  on   the   Russian
financial system  and  its defense, aerospace, maritime,  and other strategic sections of its
government.  The   U.S.   Department  of  State   has  issued   a   Level  4   Travel  Advisory  for
Russian   (“do   not  travel”)   because   of  the   invasion   of  Ukraine   and   the   potential  for
harassment of U.S. citizens, including dual U.S. Russian nationals.
In   February   2022,   the   Office   of  the   Director  of   National   Intelligence   (ODNI)
reported   that  Russia   presents  one   of  the   most  serious  foreign   influence   threats  to   the
United   States,  using   its  intelligence   services,  proxies,  and   other  influence   tools  to
undermine  U.S. global  standing, amplify discord inside  the  United  States, and  influence
U.S. voters and  decision  making. Russia  has conducted  influence  operations against U.S.
elections for decades, including as recently as the  2020  presidential election.
ODNI  also  reported  that  Russia  considers  cyber  disruptions  as  a  foreign  policy
lever to shape other countries’ decisions, as well as a deterrence and military tool. Russia
uses commercial and academic enterprises that interact with the West, recruits Russian
immigrants with advanced technical skills, and attempts to penetrate public and private
enterprises.
Russia’s human rights record is uneven, and in some areas it is poor. The judiciary
is not independent and is subject to manipulation by political authorities. Abuses include
attacks  on  journalists,  physical  abuse  by  law  enforcement  officers,  harsh  prison
conditions, arbitrary detention, politically motivated imprisonment, electronic surveillance
without judicial permission, warrantless searches of residences and other premises, and
widespread corruption in the executive, legislative, and judicial branches.
