In Applicant’s SOR  response, he denied SOR allegation ¶ 1.a, and he admitted
SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b and 2.a. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Additional findings follow. (SOR response)
Applicant is a 29-year-old electrical hardware engineer who has worked for a DOD
contractor  since June 2017.  He acknowledged that  he  was drug tested before he  was
offered a position with his employer. He is unmarried and does not have any children. He
graduated with his bachelor’s degree in 2017. In approximately June 2023, he enrolled in
a graduate degree program. Applicant has held a DOD security clearance since February
2018. (Tr. 13-15, 22-23; GE 1)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse and Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying  frequency  from about
July  2017  to  about  October  2022,  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  He
intends to continue using marijuana in the future. Applicant admitted in his SOR response
that he used marijuana during the specified period but denied that he ever stated he had
a clear intention to use marijuana in the future.
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  Applicant  purchased  marijuana  on  various  occasions  from
approximately July 2012 to January 2017. Applicant admitted this information in his SOR
response  but  clarified  that  he  purchased  marijuana  less  than  10  times  during  his  five
years in college. Both SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b were cross-alleged under Guideline E. (SOR
¶ 2.a)
In  June  2017,  Applicant  completed  an  SCA  and  disclosed  that  he  had  used
marijuana  recreationally  from  July  2012  through  January  2017.  He  listed  too  that  he
planned to smoke marijuana for recreation in the future, but only if it became legal and
acceptable to do so. He did not plan to use marijuana while employed by the government
and while it remained unacceptable by law. (GE 2)
Applicant participated in a background interview in November 2017, with a DOD
authorized investigator during the course of his security clearance investigation. Applicant
discussed his use and purchase of marijuana from 2012 through 2017. He stated that he
will not use illegal drugs in the future because he did not want to jeopardize his security
clearance  and  employment  with  a  DOD  contractor.  He  was  issued  a  DOD  security
clearance in February 2018. In October 2022, he reviewed the investigator’s report and
confirmed the recounted information was true and accurate. (GE 3; Tr. 14, 18-19)
In August 2021, Applicant completed another SCA, and he disclosed that he had
used marijuana randomly for recreation from July 2012 through August 2020. He listed:
I do plan to randomly smoke marijuana for recreation in the future, only if it
becomes legal and acceptable to do so. I do not plan to partake in marijuana
use while unacceptable by law. (GE 1)
In October 2021, Applicant participated in another background interview. The DOD
authorized investigator asked him what his future intentions were for smoking marijuana
which is illegal under federal law. Applicant stated that he does not plan to use marijuana
in  the  future,  but  he  might  if  he  feels  like  smoking  it  in  the  moment.  He  has  smoked
marijuana recreationally and casually. He could not state with certainty what he may or
may not do in the future. He enjoys creating music and being involved in musical projects
where marijuana is usually involved, and he usually partakes in this type of environment.
In  October  2022,  Applicant  reviewed  the  investigator’s  report  and  confirmed  the
recounted information was true and accurate. (GE 3; Tr. 14, 19-20)
DOHA sent Applicant interrogatories about his illegal drug involvement. In October
2022, Applicant responded to the interrogatories, and he listed that from January 2002
through October 2022, he had used marijuana on approximately four or five occasions.
During the October 2023 hearing, Applicant stated that he last used marijuana in October
2022, and he does not intend to use marijuana in the future. (GE 4; Tr. 15-18)
Applicant testified during the hearing that he has matured over the past few years
by focusing more on his education and career. He does not intend to use marijuana in the
future. He admitted that he is still involved in the music scene and is frequently around
colleagues who use marijuana. Although he may not be able to avoid marijuana in that
environment, he has made his boundaries clear to his colleagues and he does not intend
to participate in the use of marijuana. (Tr. 20-22)
Applicant  admitted  that  his  employer  provided  annual  security  briefings,  but  he
could not recall specifically if there was any information provided about illegal drug use.
He acknowledged that he had learned from the training that if he were ever arrested for
violating the law, for example, he would need to report that adverse information to the
facility security officer (FSO). When asked if he had ever reported his use of marijuana to
the FSO after he received a security clearance in February 2018, he said he had not. He
denied ever participating in a substance abuse counseling program. (Tr. 23- 25)
During the hearing, the following relevant information was addressed:
ADMIN. JUDGE BENSON: Okay. Sir, in your subject interview in November
2017, you said you would not use marijuana in the future because you did
not want to jeopardize your security clearance or your job. But you used it
after 2017, you used it every year up until October 2022, is that correct?
APPLICANT: Yes, based on what I reported there, yes. And what I reported
is true.
ADMIN. JUDGE BENSON: So, every time you used it after that statement
you made, you knew it was wrong, correct?
APPLICANT: Yeah, after that statement, yeah, I have to take accountability
for any use that happened whether I initiated it or not. (Tr. 25)
