In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  sole  Guideline  J  allegation,
(SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  noted  that  the  case  remained  pending  in  court.  He  denied  the  four
debts  alleged  under  Guideline  F  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d)  noting  that  they  had  all  been  paid.
His  admission  is  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and the record evidence submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is  47  years  old.  He earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in 2017.  He has worked
as an  instructor with  a defense  contractor  on  a  military base  since  February 2019,  and
he has had  several  prior jobs in the  defense  industry. After eight years on  active  duty in
the  Marine  Corps  (1994-2002), he  served  in  the  National Guard and  Reserve  from  2003
until July 2016, when  he  retired  as a  staff  sergeant  (E-6). He deployed  to  Iraq  in  2004-
2005   and   again  in   2009-2010. He  worked  as  a  police  officer   from   2014-2017.   His  first
marriage   ended   in   divorce   (1999-2004).   He  remarried   in  2009.  They  have   two   young
children.   (GE  2;  Tr.  12   36-40,  61-62)   He  has  held  a   clearance   since   his  time   in  the
military,  and  was  most  recently  granted  a  clearance  in  2015,  without  any  security
violations. (Tr. 12, 85-86)
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  concerns  four  delinquent  debts,  totaling  $11,790.
The  debts  are  established  by  an  April  2021  credit  report.  (GE  4)  (SOR  ¶  2)  Applicant
denied all of the debts, and said they had been paid. (Answer; Tr. 43)
Applicant provided an e-mail about his attempts to contact his creditors. (AE A).
He attached photographs of letters from two of the creditors (AE B, AE C) along with his
credit  score  as  of  June  2023.  (AE  D)  I  was  unable  to  print  a  “clean  copy”  of  these
exhibits for the case file, but they are part of the record in e-mail form, and they can be
reviewed on appeal if needed.
SOR ¶ 2.a ($7,283) is a charged-off consumer credit account. Applicant e-mailed
a photo of a letter from the creditor, documenting that the account was paid and settled
in December 2021.  The  account number on the letter is the same account number for
this debt in GE 4. (AE A) This was a personal loan. It was the first debt he addressed
after ending his contract with a debt consolidation firm, discussed below. He settled the
debt for 35% of what he owed, and he paid it off. (Tr. 52-55)
SOR ¶ 2.b ($1,640) is a charged-off credit card account with a department store.
Applicant  e-mailed  a  photo  of  a  letter  from  the  creditor,  documenting  that  the  account
was paid and settled in July 2021. (AE B; Tr. 55)
SOR ¶ 2.c ($1,171) is a charged-off credit card account with a bank. SOR ¶ 2.d
($1,696)  is a  charged-off  credit  card  account with  a  bank.  Applicant  said  he  paid  both
debts in 2021 but was not able to document it. (Tr. 32-33; 55-57)
When   asked   how he   got   into   debt,  Applicant   explained   that  he   wanted   to   get   a
better handle  on  his finances and  cut  down  on  high  interest  rates.  He learned  about a
debt  consolidation  program  through  an  acquaintance. He signed  up  for the  program  in
January  2020. The monthly fee  was $700  a  month. Applicant had  seven  or eight debts
in the  program. He  was told  to  stop  paying  on  his debts so  the  service  could  negotiate
settlements.   This  led   to   a   significant  drop   in   his  credit  score,  from   about  700   to   about
500. The  company  also  kept  27%  of any negotiated  settlement  amount.  He  believes he
got  bad   advice,   and   he   thinks  he   got   scammed.   Applicant   was   not   happy   with   the
program’s  progress,   so   he   paid   all   of  the   SOR  debts  himself   by  the   end   of  2021,   well
before  he  got the  SOR.  His credit score has improved  to  682  as of June  2023. He  said
he  pulls his credit  score  “daily”  through  a  credit monitoring  service.  (GE  2; Tr. 31-35, 44-
57, 63; AE D)
Applicant’s  finances are  now in good  condition. He has no  charged-off debts or
debts in collection and his expenses are current. He used money from his 401(k) plan to
pay  some  of  his  debts.  Taxes  were  taken  out  when  he  withdrew  the  money.  He  has
several thousand dollars in savings and checking accounts. (Tr. 57-59)
Applicant  earns  an  $80,000  annual  salary.  He  also  has  a  100%  service-
connected  disability  and  receives  $4,500  a  month  in  disability  compensation  from  the
VA.  He  no  longer  works  at  his  friend’s  nightclub.  (Tr.  39-43)  His  wife  is  a  registered
nurse. She works full time and earns $65 an hour. (Tr. 60)
Applicant was given the opportunity to submit post-hearing documents, such as
an  updated  credit  report,  but  did  not  do  so.  The  April  2021  credit  report  (GE  4)  is  the
only one in the record.
In  February  2020,  Applicant  was  working  as  a  security  manager  (bouncer)  at  a
friend’s nightclub. (GE 2 at 2) He disclosed on his SCA that one evening that month, he
had a physical altercation with an “unruly patron,” D, who refused to leave the premises.
He said that D “took an aggressive stance attempting to fight me and I went hands on
causing  him  to  have  a  hard  landing  on  a  take  down.”  D  “is  now  said  to  be  paralyzed
from the neck down.” Applicant was later charged with aggravated battery. He said he
believes this is because of the nature of the injuries, and because Applicant used to be
a police officer. (GE 1 at 31-33)
Applicant  provided  further  detail  in  his  background  interview.  (GE  2)  He  said  D
had been arrested and banned from the premises by police two months beforehand for
fighting. (GE 1, GE 2) On the night in question Applicant was on duty at about 4 am. He
was  told  by  another  security  guard,  W,  that  D  was  on  the  premises.  They  agreed  to
leave him alone and let the police deal with him in the parking lot once he left. (GE 2)
About  15  minutes  later,  another  security  guard,  C,  was  in  an  argument  with  a
female patron, and was trying to get her to leave. The female patron was married to D,
but Applicant was not aware of this. D was in the corner with several other patrons. D
challenged  Applicant  with  an  “aggressive  position”  towards  him.  Applicant  was  aware
that D had assaulted other security officers. (GE 2)
Another  security  guard,  B,  grabbed  D’s  arm  and  said,  “Hey,  man,  let’s  get  you
out of here.” D then swung his arm at B and hit his arm away. Applicant then punched D
and D fell down. When D got up, he put his hands into fists, so Applicant put him into an
arm  hold.  D  fell  down  and  hit  his  head  and  was  knocked  unconscious.  Applicant
dragged D out into the parking lot where police could render him assistance. (GE 2)
Applicant was questioned by police at the scene and the next day. He was told
he did nothing wrong. Days later he was told to come to the police station and explain
what happened and he did so. He was then arrested and detained in county jail for four
weeks  until  he  could  post  bond.  Applicant  believes  D’s  family  made  complaints  to  the
police about Applicant getting special treatment as a former police officer. (GE 2)
Applicant  believes  that  D  and  his  family  are  accusing  Applicant  of  being  the
aggressor,  that  D  was  trying  to  leave,  that  Applicant  attacked  D unprovoked,  rammed
his  head  into  the  bar,  and  stomped  and  kicked  him.  Applicant  said  that  the  family  is
claiming that D is now a quadriplegic as a result. They have filed suit against him and
the  club,  claiming  several  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  medical  expenses,  damages,
and lost wages. (GE 2)
Applicant said he was acting in self-defense. He said he has used the arm hold
numerous  times  before  in  prior  law  enforcement  positions  and  no  one  has  fallen  as  a
result.  He  said  in  his  interview  that  information  available  to  him  is  that  D  is  a  known
gang member, he has been jailed numerous times for gun, drug, and assault charges,
and has a violent history of fighting security guards and police officers. He also believes
D’s  alcohol  level  was  “two  times  over  the  legal  limit”  on  the  night  in  question.  (GE  2)
These assertions are uncorroborated.
A police report narrative from that evening indicates that D and his wife got into
an  altercation  with  club  security  after  D’s  wife  had  an  argument  with  another  female
patron. D approached security in an aggressive manner. Security asked D and his wife
to leave, but his wife did not want to. Security then grabbed D’s arm to escort him out. D
swatted  the  officer’s  hand  away.  “Security  took  that  as  an  act  of  aggression  and
preemptively  struck  [D]  before  he  could  strike”  the  officer.  D  had  consumed  alcoholic
beverages prior to this incident. (GE 3)
D  attempted  to  snatch  his  arm  away  from  security  “to  escape  while  being
escorted. At that time, an arm bar take down was used to subdue [D] where he landed
headfirst  onto  the  establishment[‘s]  floor.”  Surveillance  footage  showed  that  D  “had
gone limp upon contact with the floor. Security then [dragged D towards the door, where
he was placed outside.” He was placed in a chair and an ambulance was called. “There
was  visible  swelling  and  bleeding  on  [D’s]  forehead  and  lips.”  While  waiting  for  the
ambulance,  D’s  wife  could  be  heard  screaming  and  cursing.  An  ambulance  took  D  to
the hospital. (GE 3)
D was  arrested and  charged  with  disorderly conduct.  The  report  lists  D and his
wife  as  “Suspects.”  A  female  patron  is  listed  as  “victim”  and  Applicant  is  listed  as
“Other.”  The report  states, “[t]his is the second  time  that deputies know of  that [D  and
his wife] have caused an incident” with the security staff at this club. In a prior incident,
D  was  arrested  for  disorderly  conduct  at  the  same  establishment.  The  police  report
noted  that  Applicant  was  6  feet  tall  and  weighed  230  pounds.  D  was  listed  as  5  feet,
seven inches tall, and weighed 140 pounds. (GE 3) The security officer(s) involved are
not identified in GE 3.
Applicant  was  later  arrested  and  charged  with  aggravated  battery.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)
Other  than  GE  3,  there  is  no  police  report,  indictment  record,  or  other  documentary
evidence  providing  details  of  the  incident  relating  to  Applicant  as  a  suspect,  charged
individual, or defendant.
Applicant’s  criminal  defense  attorney  made  certain  representations  about  the
current  status  of  the  case  and  about  its  procedural  history.  He  said  that  the  case
remains pending. He has asked for a dismissal. He essentially asserted that it is difficult
in the current political climate to avoid criminal charges when a former police officer (like
Applicant)  is involved. The case  was  passed  to  several  prosecuting  attorneys  before an
indictment was brought in  September 2022  but there is no  pending  court date. (Tr. 64-
68, 75-76)
The  attorney  confirmed  that  the  alleged  victim  has  brought  a  civil  suit  against
Applicant.  There  are  multiple  witnesses  to,  and  videotapes  of,  the  incident.  (None  of
them  are  in  evidence  here).  He  believes  that  police  officers  who  are  familiar  with  the
incident  (on  scene  or  having  viewed  the  videos)  would  regard  Applicant’s  actions  as
“textbook.”  The  other  party  has  a  prior  record.  The  attorney  believes  he  has  a  strong
case. He expressed doubt as to the severity of the alleged victim’s injuries. (Tr. 68-70)
Applicant  confirmed  he  is  being  sued,  along with  the  county,  the  nightclub,  and
the  property  owner.  He  was  not  working  as  an  off-duty  police  officer  at  the  time.  He
believes  he  was  charged  because,  since  he  was  a  former  county  police  officer,  the
department did not want to be seen showing favoritism towards him. (Tr. 70-72)
Applicant  affirmed  what  he  said  previously about  the  incident,  both  on  his  SCA
and in his background interview. He was in a working capacity, and said, “I did my job.”
He  does  not  believe  it  should  have  gone  this  far and  turned  into  criminal  charges.  He
believes the victim was banned from the property two months prior and chose to return.
Applicant said his only intent “was to get him out the door, not to injure him. So it was a
freak accident. He went down wrong and landed the way he did.” (Tr. 80-81) Applicant
denied committing the crime as alleged and as charged. (Tr. 82)
Applicant  had  an  alcohol-related  driving  offense  in  the  mid-1990s.  He  said  he
was found not guilty. He was charged with domestic violence in about 2000 but he said
the case was dismissed. (Tr. 83-84)
Applicant  attested  to  his  long  service  in  the  military,  with  a  clearance.  He  has
taken many  security  courses.  (Tr.  31) He  wants  to  keep  his  clearance and his career,
and he wants to protect his assets and his reputation. (Tr. 85, 93-94)
