Applicant is a 56-year-old married man with four adult children. He and his wife have
been married for 26 years. A previous marriage ended in divorce. Applicant has a high
school diploma and has taken some college courses. (AE G; Tr. 11) He is a veteran of both
the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Army. Applicant served in the Navy from 1987 to 1991. (AE B)
He was discharged honorably. In 1998, Applicant enlisted in the Army and served until
2015, when he retired honorably. (AE A) While in the Army, he completed three tours of
duty in combat zones. (Tr. 22) He has held a security clearance since 1988. (Tr. 21)
Through Applicant’s Army career, he developed subject-matter expertise in the field
of ordnance, storage, and security. (AE F at 3) Since February 2021, he has been working
for his current employer as a security officer. (GE 1 at 12)
Applicant has a history of misconduct of a sexual nature. In 1999, he was cited for
solicitation  of  a  prostitute.  (Answer  at  1)  Applicant  testified  that  he  had  no  intention  of
soliciting a prostitute that evening. Rather, while he was sitting at a traffic light on the way
home one evening in a part of town where prostitutes congregated, he saw a woman get
out of a sports car. (AE T at 4) He suspected the woman was an undercover police officer
because she was well dressed and looked “much different than the other typical ladies of
the night would [look] in that area.” He explained further that, because he was taking a
course in criminology at the time, he wanted to speak to the supposed undercover officer to
see firsthand how undercover sting operations are conducted, in the event he ever needed
to write a paper on the subject. (Tr. 26; GE 2 at 14) Subsequently, he asked the woman
where she took her johns, and she nodded her head in the direction of a nearby hotel. (GE
2 at 15) Applicant then drove his car towards the hotel and parked at an adjacent parking
lot, whereupon multiple police officers pulled beside him in unmarked vehicles and issued
him a citation for soliciting prostitution. (Tr. 28) Subsequently, Applicant paid a fine.
Shortly  after  the  episode,  Applicant  told  his  wife  the  same  explanation  of  the
circumstances surrounding the issuance of the citation, to which he testified. She did not
find this explanation credible. (Tr. 48)
Beginning in 2017, Applicant attended swingers’ parties every four to five months. At
the hearing, he testified that he stopped attending them in 2020, whereas, during a subject
interview, he told the investigator that the last swingers’ party he attended was in February
2022, ten months after the initiation of the security clearance investigation. (GE 2 at 11)
Often while at these parties, he had sexual intercourse with strangers. (Tr. 31-32) His wife
was unaware that he was attending these parties. When he went, he would tell her that he
was going to work. (Tr. 31)
At  one  of  the  parties,  a  woman  with  whom  Applicant  had  sexual  intercourse,
photographed him wearing no clothing except for a pair of panties. (AE T at 3) In March
2021, while at work, Applicant checked his personal email and discovered that the woman
he met at the swingers’ party emailed him the picture. (Tr. 15) Applicant tried to delete it,
but accidently saved it onto his office’s work drive. (Tr. 15; GE 2 at 5) Because Applicant is
not  computer  literate,  he  was  unable  to  delete  it.  Consequently,  he  asked  a  female
coworker  for  help.  He  did  not  ask  a  male  coworker  for  help  because  he  was  too
embarrassed. (GE 2 at 12) Before his coworker helped him, he warned her that she might
find the photograph offensive. (Tr. 15) She then went into the work drive and deleted the
picture. (Tr. 16)
Shortly thereafter, the woman who helped Applicant delete the inappropriate picture
filed  a  sexual  harassment  complaint  with  their  employer.  The  next  day,  Applicant’s
employer  fired  him  for  violating  company  policy.  (GE  2  at  6;  GE  3)  According  to  the
termination letter, Applicant’s employer also reviewed the contents of Applicant’s computer
after the coworker’s complaint and discovered several “obscene and offensive” files. (GE 3)
While  on  the  job,  Applicant  watched  pornography  on  his  telework  laptop
approximately 15 to 20 times. (GE 2 at 6, 13; Tr. 38) He knew that it was against company
policy to download pornography onto his work computer, but he did not think that watching
pornography on his work computer while connected to his home internet carrier posed a
problem. (Tr. 17, 39) At the time Applicant was fired, he was the company’s facility security
officer. (GE 1 at 13)
Applicant has not watched pornography since May 2020, and he has not attended a
swingers’ party since February 2022. (Tr. 19, 35; GE 2 at 11) He is ashamed of the pain
that  he  caused  his  wife  and  understands  that  “love  is  more  powerful  than  any  kind  of
fantasy.” (Tr. 24)
In late 2022, Applicant told his wife about his swingers’ party attendance. (AE F at 4;
Tr. 33) According to Applicant’s wife, he feels shame and remorse for his behavior, has
grown as a person, “and is working hard to develop the skills needed to avoid making such
poor choices again.” (AE F at 4) Moreover, he is a man of tremendous character who has
supported her through her fight with cancer, given a homeless man the shoes off his feet,
and covered shifts for coworkers in crisis without advance notice. (AE F at 4)
One of Applicant’s current supervisors provided a character reference. He is aware
of  Applicant’s  past misconduct  and  stated  that  it  “play[s]  no  difference  on  his  role  and
position at his workplace” because of the stellar judgment he demonstrates on the job. (AE
F at 2)
In July 2023, Applicant voluntarily underwent a psychological evaluation to ascertain
whether his behavior, as described above, was indicative of any underlying psychological
disorder.  (AE  T)  After interviewing  Applicant  and  conducting  psychological  testing,  the
psychologist concluded that “Applicant’s behaviors of concern . . . were the function of poor
choices made over the course of his life rather than because of any malicious intent or
sexual deviance.” (AE T at 6) Moreover, he concluded that the risk Applicant will engage in
any such behavior in the future is low. (AE T at 6)
