In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to all allegations in the SOR.
Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  employee  of  a  DOD  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance. This is his first time applying for a security clearance. He has been employed
with  his  current  employer,  Employer  A,  since  September  2021.  He  also  interned  for
Employer A while in college from June 2020 to December 2020. He earned a bachelor’s
degree in May 2021. He is single and has no children. (GE 1, Tr. 15-17; AE F)
(Note: The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names
of  witnesses,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The
cited sources contain more specific information.)
Personal Conduct
Under the  Personal Conduct security concern, the  SOR  alleges Applicant’s offer
of employment  was  rescinded  from  Employer B  because  he  failed  a  drug  test.  (SOR  ¶
1.a)  Applicant  admits  this  allegation.   In   May   2021,  Applicant  received   a   job   offer  from
Employer  B.  His  employment  was  contingent  upon   Employer   B’s  pre-employment
screening  to  include  drug  testing.  Applicant  passed  his  first drug  test,  which  he  provided
in May  2021.   Due  to an  administrative  error, he  was required  to take  a  second drug  test
in  June   2021.   Applicant   used   marijuana   between   the   first   and   second   drug   test.   He
failed   the   second   drug   test.   On   August  4,  2021,  Employer  B   rescinded   the   offer  of
employment  because  he  failed  to  successfully pass the  drug  screen. (Tr. 20-21,  39-41;
GE  3)
The  SOR  also  alleged  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  during  a  February  28,
2022, interview with an authorized investigator for the United States Office of Personnel
Management,  by  answering  “No”  when  asked  about  whether  he  used  illegal  drugs
within the last seven years. He denied any illegal drug use, even though he had failed a
drug  test  in  2021,  and  smoked  marijuana  on  a  regular  basis  while  in  college.  He  lied
because he thought he would lose another job if he admitted that he used illegal drugs.
He wanted to protect his job. (SOR ¶ 1.b: Tr. 24-25; GE 2 at 7)
As  stated  above,  the  SOR  also  alleged  Applicant  deliberately  falsified  material
facts on a security clearance application, dated  June 2, 2021, when he answered  “No”
in  response  to  “Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  and  Drug  Activity  –  Illegal  Use  of
Drugs or Controlled Substances – “In the last seven years, have you illegally used any
drugs  or  controlled  substances?  Use  of  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  includes
injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise consuming any
drug  or  controlled  substance.”  Applicant  failed  to  list  his  marijuana  use  from  2018  to
May 2021. (SOR ¶ 1.c: Tr. 31-32; GE 1 at 32-33)
After Employer B rescinded Applicant’s job offer, he re-applied for a position with
Employer A.  Employer A offered him a position which he accepted. He completed the
e-QIP  in  June  2021,  and  he  passed  a  drug  test  in  August  2021.  He  started  work  at
Employer A in September 2021. (Tr. 17, 20-23; GE 1; GE 3)
Applicant  started  using  marijuana  in  high  school.  He  began  using  marijuana
almost  every day  starting  his  sophomore  year  in  college.  He  no  longer socializes  with
the  people  he  used  marijuana  with  while  in  college.  None  of  his  personal  friends  use
marijuana.  He  took and  passed  two drug  tests  in  October 2022  and  July  2023.  (AE  C
and AE I) The last time he used marijuana was in May 2021. He has no intention to use
marijuana in the future. On October 17, 2022, Applicant signed an affidavit declaring his
intent to refrain from illegal drug use and acknowledging any future use of illegal drugs
will result in the revocation of his security clearance. (Tr. 25 – 29; AE B; AE C; AE I)
The use of marijuana is legal in the state where Applicant resides. Applicant was
aware  that  it  remained  illegal  under  federal  law.  He  also  admitted  that  he  deliberately
failed  to  disclose  his  illegal  marijuana  use  on  his  June  2021  security  clearance
application  because  he  wanted  to  hide  it.  He  admits  his  decision  to  hide  his  illegal
marijuana  use  because  he  was  selfish.  Based  on  his  testimony,  Department  Counsel
motioned to amend the SOR in accordance with paragraph ¶ E3.1.1.17 of the Directive
as discussed in the Procedural Section above. (SOR ¶ 1.c: GE 1 at 31-32; Tr. 30-32)
Drug  Involvement
Under the drug involvement security concern, the SOR alleged Applicant failed a
urinalysis  test  in  or  about  August  2021.  (SOR  ¶  1.a:  Gov  3)  Applicant  admits  this
allegation.  However,  it  is  likely  Applicant  submitted  his  urine  sample  in  May  or  June
2021. He was notified by Employer B that their employment offer was rescinded in early
August 2021.
On  August  12,  2023,  Dr.  E.,  Ph.D.,  ABPP,  a  board-certified  psychologist
evaluated Applicant. The purpose of the evaluation was to determine whether Applicant
had  a  substance  use  condition,  personality  patterns,  or  behavioral  propensities  that
could  negatively  impact  his  reliability,  trustworthiness  or  judgment.  Applicant  provided
the information about the issues with his security clearance to Dr. E. Upon reviewing the
documents,  interviewing  Applicant,  and  conducting  several  tests,  Dr.  E.  concluded
Applicant does not exhibit signs or symptoms of a substance use disorder at the present
time, and it is unlikely he has ever met criteria for such a condition in the past. He notes
that  while  Applicant’s  marijuana  use  in  college  was  unhealthy  and  ill-advised,  it  is  not
unusual  for  college  students  to  use  marijuana.  Studies  have  shown  up  to  44%  of
college-aged adults use marijuana. He notes Applicant last used marijuana in 2021, and
he  has  no  desire  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  also  notes  that  the  risk  for  future
marijuana  use  by  Applicant  is  extremely  low.  Applicant’s  prognosis  for  continued
psychological wellness is excellent. (AE L)
On  September  5,  2023,  Applicant  provided  another  urinalysis  sample.  His
sample tested negative for illegal drugs to include marijuana.  (AE M)
Whole-Person Factors
Applicant  submitted  several  character  letters.  Mr.  T.,  his  former  supervisor
recommends  him  for  a  security  clearance.  He  describes  Applicant  as  a  highly
professional, trustworthy individual. He supervised him for over one and half years. He
observed Applicant being respectful and mindful of security policies and restrictions. He
has always trusted Applicant and has had no reason to doubt or question him. He finds
him  worthy  of  having  his  security  clearance  reinstated  so  that  he  can  continue  in  his
promising career. (AE H; AE J)
Ms. B. has known Applicant for 21 years. She describes him as a person of high
moral  character,  consistently  demonstrating  trustworthiness,  honesty,  and  respect.  He
has  constantly demonstrated  “unwavering  loyalty,  kindness and  support”  to  her family.
(AE J)
Ms. L. has known Applicant since he was 13 years old. He lived across the street
from her. She is aware he failed a drug test and lied on a security clearance application.
While  she  understands  dishonesty  and  drug  use  would  be  a  serious  concern  in  the
granting of security clearances, she states that Applicant learned from his mistakes. He
takes his career very seriously and regrets his actions. She states he was never a “ pot
head” and believed he would not have any trouble leaving his marijuana use in the past.
Through the years, he has helped her do things such as moving heavy furniture in her
apartment.  She  has  seen  him  make  mistakes,  but  he  takes  responsibility  and  learns
from his mistakes. She says, “He is smart, and he is a good man, with good values, and
a good head on his shoulders.” She is comfortable with him having a security clearance.
(AE J)
Two other co-workers provided letters on Applicant’s behalf. They both describe
his  excellent  work  ethic  and  integrity.  They  have  no  doubt  that  he  is  committed  to
upholding the security of the country. (AE J) His fellow employees at Employer A think
highly of him.
Applicant has received several spot awards recognizing his positive contributions
to  Employer  A.  He  was  recognized  for  his  collaboration  and  accountability.  (AE  E)  In
July 2023, he received an Achievement Award for his excellent duty performance. (AE
N)
