Applicant  is  51  years old.  He  earned  an  associate  degree  (May  2012)  and  has
some credits towards a bachelor’s degree. He is married (since 1998) and has three adult
children. He reported five periods of unemployment from September 2012 to August 2022
ranging from two to ten months. He was unemployed from May 2018 (when his contract
ended) until November 2018. His most recent period of unemployment was from August
2022 (when his contract ended) to October 2022. Both contracts that ended were for full-
time employment. Since October 2022, he has worked full time for a defense contractor.
He has never before held a national security clearance. (Item 3.)
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  28  delinquent  accounts
totaling $88,998. Sixteen of those accounts are for federal student loans totaling $67,373.
Eleven  are  consumer  accounts  totaling  $19,125.  One  is  a  $2,500  delinquent  federal
income  tax  account  for  tax  year  2020.  (Item  1.)  He  admitted  all  28  SOR  accounts.
(Answer.) The student loans and consumer accounts are reported  to be in collections.
(Item 4.)
Applicant  admitted  the  16  federal  student  loan  allegations,  with  the  following
qualification: “[Y]es I do owe student loans, however payments were/are on hold by the
current administration due to the pandemic. I am not in default and will pay what is needed
to be current so that I CAN continue my education and complete my bachelor’s degree.”
(Answer.)
On  numerous  occasions,  President  Joseph  R.  Biden,  Jr.,  and  his  predecessor
ordered  automatic  administrative  forbearances  of  federal  student  loan  payments  (a
“pause”)  from March 13, 2020 to September 1, 2023, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Borrowers’ first payments after the pause were due to start in October 2023. Borrowers
will receive bills with the payment amount and the due date. I have taken administrative
notice of the history and current status of the federal student loan program. There is no
evidence
it.
(https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19).
such  a  bill  and
that  Applicant
received
to  pay
failed
Applicant admitted the 11 consumer loan accounts and the federal income tax
delinquency. (Answer.) He pleaded generally that he intended to pay “once he is in a
long-term Permanent position,” or that he was unable to pay due to a lay-off, insufficient
income, or some combination thereof. (Answer ¶¶ 1.a, e, s, t – z.) He provided no
details or documents supporting his claims (personal finances or contacts with
creditors). In his background investigation, he reiterated that he plans to pay these
debts but has made no arrangements or agreements to do so. (Item 5.)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose
that his federal student loans and consumer loans were in collection or delinquent. (SOR.)
Applicant did not respond to this allegation. It is, therefore, deemed a denial. He disclosed
his delinquent income tax debt in his SCA.
Section 26 of Applicant’s SCA asked in pertinent part: “In the past seven (7) years,
you had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency? [and] In the past seven [7], you
had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as
agreed?  (Item 3.) He answered “No” to both questions and did not disclose the status of
his student loans or his consumer loans. (Item 3.) He did, however, discuss those loans
in his background investigation, where he stated: [He was] not aware [he] needed to list
non-delinquent student loan payments. As to his consumer loans, he stated that: [He was
not] aware [he] needed to list debts more than seven years old. (Item 5.)
Law and Policies
It  is well-established  law that  no  one  has a  right to  a  security clearance. As  noted
by the  Supreme  Court in  Department  of the  Navy v. Egan, “the  clearly consistent standard
indicates  that  security clearance  determinations should  err,  if they  must,  on  the   side  of
denials.”  Department of Navy v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528  (1988) (“it should  be  obvious
that  no  one  has  a  ‘right’ to  a  security clearance”); Duane  v. Department of Defense,  275
F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no right to a security clearance).
Under Egan, Executive Order 10865, and the Directive, any doubt about whether
an applicant should be allowed access to classified information will be resolved in favor
of protecting national security. A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an
applicant  to  be  granted  a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-
secret  information.  An  unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)
revokes any existing security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information
at any level Directive, ¶ 3.2.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.  ISCR  Case  No.  02-18663  (App.  Bd.  Mar.  23,  2004).  The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that have been controverted. An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute,
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that have been admitted or proven. In addition, an
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.
Directive, ¶ E3.1.14; Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
In  Egan,  the  Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a
preponderance of evidence. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.The Appeal Board has followed the
Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the  substantial-
evidence standard. ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties.
The overall concern is:
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and   meet  financial
judgment,   or
obligations  may
unwillingness   to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of   which   can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect classified  or sensitive information.  AG ¶ 18.
indicate   poor  self-control,
lack  of
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of  value.  It
encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  important
qualities.  A  person  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be  irresponsible,
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions or factors:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶  19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations; and
AG ¶  19(f)  failure . . . to pay annual Federal . . . income tax as required.
I also considered the following mitigating- conditions or factors:
AG  ¶   20(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
occurred  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur and does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment;
AG ¶  20(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶  20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
Applicant’s admissions  and  the  Government’s  credit report supports  a  conclusion
that  Applicant  has had  a  problematic financial history.  Facts  admitted  by  an  applicant in
an  answer to  a  SOR require  no  further  proof by the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No. 94-1159
at 4  (App. Bd. Dec. 4,  1995) (“any admissions [applicant]  made  to  the  SOR allegations .
. . relieve  Department Counsel of its  burden of proof”); ISCR  Case No. 94-0569  at 4  and
n.1  (App. Bd. Mar. 30,  1995) (“[a]n  applicant’s  admissions, whether testimonial or written,
can   provide   a   legal  basis  for  an   Administrative   Judge’s  findings”).  The   record  raises
security concerns under disqualifying factors AG ¶¶  19(a),  19(c), and  19(f).
The next inquiry is whether any potentially mitigating conditions apply. Applicant’s
delinquent consumer debts are numerous and persist to this day. They are recurring. AG
¶ 20(a) does not apply.
I also considered AG ¶ 20(b) as a mitigating condition. Applicant alluded generally
to his lack of a permanent position, layoffs, or insufficient income as causes of his financial
problems.  Although  he  provided  no  concrete  details,  those  factors  could  be  “largely
beyond” his control as contemplated by AG ¶ 20(b). Thus, the first requirement of AG ¶
20(b) is satisfied.
That does not, however, end the inquiry. Applicant must have “acted responsibly”
under  the  adverse  conditions  he  confronted.  Here,  Applicant’s  conduct  amounted  to
nothing more than stating his intent to pay in the future.  He showed no solid efforts to
address  debts  under  his  adverse  circumstances.  What  is  required  is  that  an  applicant
have a reasonable plan to pay off his debts and has taken some steps towards execution
of that plan. Mere promises to pay are insufficient. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 09-08462
at 3 (App. Bd. May 3, 2011). AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply.
I have considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 20(g). Applicant admittedly has made
no plan or arrangement with the federal tax authority to address his delinquent  income
taxes. Therefore, AG ¶ 20(g) does not apply.
Applicant’s  federal  student  loans  were  in  an  automatic  state  of  administrative
forbearance from March 13, 2020 to September 1, 2023. His loans were deferred and not
deemed  to  be  in  default  during  that  time.  I  find  in  favor  of  Applicant  as  to  his  federal
student loans, notwithstanding that they were reported in collections in November 2022.
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
In assessing an allegation of deliberate falsification, I consider applicant’s answer
and  all  relevant  circumstances.  AG  ¶¶  2(d)(1)-(9)  and  2(f)(1)-(6)  (explaining  the  whole
person concept). Under Guideline E for personal conduct, the concern is that “[c]onduct
involving  questionable  judgment,  lack of candor, dishonesty,  or unwillingness to  comply
with   rules  and   regulations   can   raise   questions   about   an
individual’s  reliability,
trustworthiness,  and   ability  classified   or  sensitive  information.”  A   statement  is  false  or
dishonest  when  it  is made  deliberately (knowingly and  willfully). An  omission  of relevant
and   material  information   is  not  deliberate   if,   for  example,  the   person   genuinely  forgot
about it, inadvertently overlooked  it, misunderstood  the  question, reasonably did not know
the information, or genuinely thought the information did not need to  be reported.
The evidence shows that Applicant did not disclose his federal student loans on
his  SCA.  In  his  background  investigations,  he  explained  that  he  was  “not  aware  [he]
needed to list non-delinquent student loan payments.” Given the evolving history of the
current student loan program, that was a reasonable and honest answer. I do not find that
he deliberately omitted listing his student loans in his SCA.
The SOR also alleged that Applicant deliberately omitted his delinquent consumer
loans from his SCA. He did not disclose those debts in his SCA. Parsed in more detail,
the SCA asked: (1) Were any bills or debts turned over to a collection agency; and (2)
Was any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as
agreed? His Answer failed to respond to this allegation, so it was deemed a denial.  In his
background investigation, he denied  by saying: “[He  was not] aware [he] needed  to  list
debts more than seven years old.”
Applicant’s state of mind (deliberately) was, therefore, controverted. That the only
credit report noted that  the consumer loans were  in collections is not evidence that  he
knew those accounts were in that status and were so reported or knew they had not been
paid when he completed his SCA. Nor is his failure to disclose them in his SCA evidence
of a deliberate state of mind in omitting them. In short, the Government has not carried
its  burden.  Guideine  E  security  concerns  are  not  established.  I  do  not  find  that  he
deliberately omitted listing his consumer loans in his SCA.
Whole-Person Concept
Under  the   whole-person   concept,   the   administrative  judge   must   evaluate   an
applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s
conduct and  all relevant circumstances.
Under  AG  ¶  2(c),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  in  light  of  all  the  facts  and  circumstances
surrounding this case. I have incorporated my comments under Guideline F and Guideline
E in my whole-person analysis.
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  those  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  mitigated  the  security
concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations. Security concerns arising
under Guideline E, personal conduct, are not established.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.b-1.e,1.g-1q,1.s:
(Student Loans)
For Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a,  1.f, 1.r, 1.t-1.aa:
(Consumer Loans)
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.bb.:
(Taxes)
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline E
FOR APPLICANT
Subparagraph  2.a.
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant Applicant access to classified information.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
