In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denies  all  allegations  in  the  SOR  with
explanations as mentioned below.
Applicant  is  a  23-year-old  employee  of  a  DOD  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance. This is his first time applying for a security clearance. He has been employed
with  his  current  employer  full-time  since  graduating  from  high  school  in  2019.  In  high
school,  he  interned  during  summers  for  his employer.  He  initially  worked  at  a  location
where  a  security  clearance  is  not  required.  He  transferred  to  a  new  duty  position  and
location  which  requires  a  security  clearance.  He  has  some  college  credits,  but  no
degree. He is single and has no children. (GE 1, Tr.9, 14-17)
(Note: The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names
of  witnesses,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The
cited sources contain more specific information.)
The SOR alleges Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from January
2017  to  September  2022.  (SOR  ¶  1.a:  GE  1;  GE  2)  The  SOR  also  alleges  Applicant
intends to continue using marijuana. (SOR ¶ 1.b: GE 1 at 22; GE 2 at 7)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denies  the  allegation  under  SOR  ¶  1.a
because he did not start using marijuana until 2019. He obtained a medical marijuana
card  on  January  25,  2000.  It  expired  on  August  22,  2022.  (AE  A)  He  used  medical
marijuana for anxiety. He suffers from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) related to
an  incident  that  happened  when  he  was  a  child.  He  would  use  marijuana  while  alone
about three evenings a week if he could not sleep. (Tr. 23; GE 1, GE 2 at 7)
On his March 3, 2022 security clearance application, in response to  section 23-
Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, “In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used
any drugs or controlled substances?,” Applicant listed he used marijuana from January
2017  to  March  2022.  He  indicated  his  use  was  related  to  a  “medical  card.”  Applicant
also mentioned that when he was 19, he was pulled over and the police discovered 3.5
grams  of  marijuana  in  his  car.  (GE  1  at  21-22)  During  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified
that  he  put  the  incorrect  date  of  when  he  began  using  marijuana  on  his  security
clearance application. It was his first time applying for a security clearance and he made
mistakes  on  the  security  clearance  application.  He  had  a  difficult  time  completing  the
application and no one was very helpful while he was completing it. He actually began
using marijuana in 2019. (Tr. 20-21)
In May 2019, Applicant and his friend were driving to a concert. The police pulled
them over.  The police searched his car and discovered 3.5 grams of marijuana in the
car. The police confiscated the marijuana and issued Applicant a ticket. He resolved the
ticket  as  soon  as  he  could.  He  denies  that  he  ingested  marijuana  before  the  police
pulled him over. (Tr. 27-28)
A follow-up question under section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity on
his  March  2022  security  clearance  application  asked  “Provide  explanation  of  why  you
intend or do not intend to use this drug or controlled substance in the future?” Applicant
answered, “Medical card.”  During an interview with the investigator who conducted his
security  clearance  background  investigation  on  March  28,  2022,  Applicant  told  the
investigator  that  he  possessed  a  medical  marijuana  card  and  that  he  used  medical
marijuana  to  treat  his  anxiety  and  PTSD.  He  also  mentioned  that  he  intended  to  use
medical marijuana in the future. (Gov 2 at 7)
Applicant believed that there was no security issue with using medical marijuana.
He  did  not  understand  that  although  his  marijuana  use  was  legal  under  state  law,  it
remained  illegal  under  federal  law.  He  was  not  made  aware  of  this  until  his  family
members,  (especially  his  grandfather)  told  him  that  marijuana  use  remained  an  issue
when  applying  for  a  security  clearance.  He  now  understands  that  marijuana  remains
illegal under federal law. He stopped using marijuana about a month before his medical
marijuana card expired (July 2022) because he felt he did not need it anymore. He did
not reapply for a medical marijuana card when it expired in August 2022.  He now deals
with  his  anxiety  by  running  and  fishing.  He  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the
future. He submitted a statement indicating he will abstain from all drug involvement and
substance  misuse.  He  acknowledged  any  future  involvement  or  misuse  may  result  in
the revocation of his security clearance. (Tr. 23-31; AE B)
Whole-Person  Factors
Mr. J.P. wrote a letter on Applicant’s behalf. He has known him for 11 years. He
describes him as hard-working. He is interested in cars and machinery. He likes to know
how things work.  Mr. J.P. says Applicant is capable and has the work ethic to make him
successful. (AE C at 1)
Mrs.  T.  B.  has  been  Applicant’s  step-grandmother  since  2019.  She  has  known
him  since 2017. She  is  aware  Applicant used  marijuana and had a  medical  card.  She
thought  it  was  a  poor  decision  on  his  part  and  marijuana  use  had  no  place  when
working  for  a  defense  contractor.  In  the  summer  2022,  he  assured  her  that  he  had
stopped  using  marijuana.  She  has  observed  a  change  in  his  judgment,  clarity,  and
presence  since  that  time.  She  has  talked  with  Applicant  about  his  future  and  he  is
committed to following rules and regulations.
Applicant occasionally takes his younger siblings on outings and drives them to
after  school  activities.  Mrs  T.B.  describes  him  as  trustworthy  and  responsible  for  the
safety of the children while in his care. Mrs. T.B. is writing a Letter of Recommendation
for  Applicant  because  he  has  “successfully  overcome  obstacles”  and  “demonstrated
good choices and judgment for well over a year.” (AE C at 2)
