Under  Guideline  H, the  SOR  alleged that  between  May  2017 and  at  least  June
2023,  Applicant  used  marijuana  “multiple  times  a  week”  (SOR  1.a);  that  between
December 2017 and at least April 2023, he used hallucinogenic mushrooms (SOR 1.b);
that  he  used  LSD once  in  2020  (SOR  1.c); and  that he  intends  to continue  his use of
marijuana  and  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  (SOR  1.d).  In  addition  to  admitting  each  of
those allegations, he provided the following statement:
[M]y use of recreational drugs on my personal time in no way reflects upon
my trustworthiness as a keeper of national secrets. I do not plan to change
my lifestyle because that would be absurd, and directly contradictory to the
first  sentence  of  this  statement.  If  the  DOD  wants  a  dog  who  has  no
personal principles, they can find one elsewhere. (FORM, Items 1 and 2)
In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by Applicant’s admissions, and based on my
review of the information presented in the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked as a software engineer since June 2016. In his e-QIP, he disclosed the drug use
listed  in  the  SOR.  Specifically,  he  disclosed  he  was  a  regular  (sometimes  daily)  and
ongoing user of marijuana, both by smoking and in edible form. He also disclosed he had
used LSD on one occasion in 2020, but that he would not use it again because he did not
have  a  good  experience  with  that  drug.  Finally,  he  disclosed  that  he  had  used
hallucinogenic,  or  “magic,”  mushrooms  in  2017  and  2018.  During  his  personal  subject
interview (PSI) with a government investigator in January 2023, and in a June 9, 2023,
response  to  interrogatories  propounded  by  DOHA  Department  Counsel,  he  confirmed
and updated the information about his drug use provided in his e-QIP. Notably, he told
the  investigator  that  he  had  purchased  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  just  before  he
submitted his e-QIP and that he had used them between then and the date of his PSI.
(FORM, Items 3 and 4)
The drugs in question –  marijuana containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), LSD,
and hallucinogenic “magic” mushrooms – are or contain federally controlled substances,
the unauthorized possession and use of which are  criminal violations of the Controlled
Substances  Act,  21  U.S.C.  §  801  et  seq.  During  his  PSI,  he  acknowledged  his
understanding that use of marijuana is still a violation of federal criminal law. Nonetheless,
he affirmed his intention to continue using marijuana and magic mushrooms. In response
to Department Counsel’s interrogatories, he stated he intends to continue using marijuana
and  hallucinogenic mushrooms because  they are “integral to  [his] artistic process.” He
has not provided any details regarding what that process might entail. He also relies on
the fact that use and possession of marijuana are generally legal in the state where he
lives. (FORM, Items 2 – 4)
Guidance issued by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (OASD) in
February  2013,  which  was  updated  by  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI)  in
December  2021,  makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the
various states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the  current National
Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this
issue, Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of location or even medical justification in
his state of residence, was illegal. Further, federal workplaces prohibit illegal drug use by
civilian federal employees and by persons employed for work on federal contracts.
