Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation. His admission is incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. He graduated from college in 2019. He is not married
and has no children. He began working for his present employer, a federal contractor, in
November 2021. (Item 4)
In  December  2021,  Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  Non-sensitive
Position (SF 85). Section 14 asked if in the last year he had used, possessed, supplied,
or manufactured illegal drugs in the past year. He responded “No.” The section advised,
“Neither your truthful response nor information derived from your response will be used
as evidence against you in any subsequent criminal proceeding.” (Item 5)
In May 2022, Applicant completed a Questionnaire for National Security Position
(SF 86). Under Section 23-Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, it states with reference
to  this  section  that  neither  your  truthful  responses  nor  information  derived  from  your
responses to this section will be used as evidence against you in a subsequent criminal
proceeding. (Item 4)
Section 23 asked if in the last seven years Applicant had illegally used drugs. He
responded “No.” In the section titled: “Additional comments” there were none. He certified
that  his  responses  in  the  SF  86  were  true,  complete,  and  correct  to  the  best  of  his
knowledge  and  belief and  were  made  in  good  faith.  He  further  affirmed  that  making  a
knowing and willful false statement was punishable under federal law. He affirmed that
he understood that  intentionally  withholding, misrepresenting, or falsifying, or including
classified information may have a negative effect on his security clearance, employment
prospects, or job status, up to and including denial or revocation of a security clearance,
or removal and debarment from Federal service.
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator under oath in July 2022.
When asked if he had used any illegal drugs in the past seven years, he admitted using
marijuana in 2015 and again in 2019. When questioned as to why he did not disclose his
drug use, he explained he was worried about what would happen if he listed his marijuana
use. He said he did not know what would happen with his employment if he answered the
question honestly, so he lied.
Applicant  completed  government  interrogatories  in  March  2023.  In  them,  he
affirmed the accuracy of July 2022 background interview and said the reason he did not
disclose  his  marijuana  use  because:  “This  was  my  first  government  job,  and  I  was
scared/unsure what would happen.” (Item 6)
In Applicant’s April 2023 answer to the SOR, he stated he wanted to explain his
conduct.  He  said  he  was  nervous  about  the  security  process  and  had  no  idea  how  it
worked, especially being a new employee for a big company. He stated,
I was scared  of what would happen  if I put “yes”  on  the  e-quip  for having
done   any   drugs   since   I  didn’t  know  if  I   was  going   to   be   rejected
automatically, arrested, fired, taken  out of the  building  by people in suits, or
have  a  stain on  my  record. One  that I  have  spent  my  entire  life  building. I
also didn’t want to  be  painted  with  the  same  broad  stroke  brush  as someone
who  does  all  kinds of drugs constantly  or sells them.  That isn’t  me,  never
has, and never will.”
I  received   advice  from   a   peer  suggesting   that  I  could  answer  “no”  and
explain   in  more   detail  during   the   interview.  While   this  seemed   like   a
reasonable approach  at the  time, and  I did go  into  that detail  in my interview,
I now realize that it was not the best course of action. (Item  2)
Applicant  further  explained  in  his  SOR  answer  that  he  recently  learned  that  his
company has people that help employees through the security process. He believed he
got terrible advice and should have answered the question with a “yes.” He stated, “I wish
I had known that during the time, but I was so new at the company and was overwhelmed
by all of the paperwork.” (Item 2)
In his SOR answer, Applicant stated that he is committed to upholding the highest
standards  of  integrity  and  honesty  in  his  work  and  he  understands  the  importance  of
maintaining  a  spotless  record  in  order  to  hold  a  position  of  trust.  He  recognizes  the
seriousness of the clearance process and the importance of complete transparency and
honesty. (Item 2)
