Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that in August 2020, Applicant was charged
in State A with felony malicious wounding, felony use of a firearm in the commission of a
felony, misdemeanor brandishing of a firearm, and misdemeanor assault and battery on
a family member. Further, it was alleged that in March 2022, he was arrested in State B
and extradited to State A, where he pleaded guilty to the two misdemeanor charges and
was sentenced to 12 months in jail with 10 months suspended (SOR 1.a).
Also under Guideline  J, the  SOR alleged  that  Applicant was  incarcerated  in  State
C between  December 2007  and  November 2009  for multiple burglary offenses (SOR 1.b);
that  in  November  2002,  he   was  arrested   in  State   C  and   charged   with   burglary  and   a
parole  violation  (SOR 1.c); that in  November 2001, he  was  arrested  and  charged  in  State
C with  felony  burglary,  resisting  and  officer,  and  simple  battery  (SOR 1.d);  that in  February
2001,  he   was  arrested   and   charged   in  State   C  with   felony   forcible   rape,   to   which   he
pleaded  guilty and  served  six months in jail (SOR 1.e); and  that between  1989  and  2000,
he   was  arrested   and   charged   on   multiple   occasions   with   various  crimes,  including
burglary, theft, and  forgery (SOR 1.f).  In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant admitted  each
of these allegations and  provided  a  lengthy explanation of the  events addressed  in  SOR
1.a.  (FORM, Items 1  and 3)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant intentionally made false official
statements to a government investigator during a November 21, 2022, personal subject
interview (PSI) regarding the events addressed in SOR 1.a (SOR 2.a). He admitted this
allegation  with  an  explanation,  a  plain  reading  of  which  indicates  he  reaffirms  his
statement to the investigator. Accordingly, I have interpreted his response as a denial of
the requisite intent to falsify. (FORM, Items 1 and 3)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges that Applicant owes $15,754 for 11 delinquent
or past-due debts. (SOR 3.a –  3.k) In response, he admitted each of those allegations
and claimed he has paid the debts at SOR 3.a and 3.k, and that he is resolving the debts
at SOR 3.d and 3.g. (FORM, Items 1 and 3)
In  addition  to  the   facts   established  by  Applicant’s admissions,   and  based  on  my
review of the information  presented in the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  53  years  old.  He  is  being  sponsored  for  a  clearance  by  a  defense
contractor in State B, where he has lived since October 2021. He was born in State C in
1970.  State  and  federal  criminal  records  obtained  during  Applicant’s  background
investigation show that since early 1989, when he was 18 years old, he has been arrested
and  charged  more  than  30  times  with  various  criminal  offenses,  including  burglary,
assault, use of a weapon in the commission of a felony, forgery, trespassing, and forcible
rape. It further appears that he has been incarcerated for criminal offenses for periods
ranging from two months to  almost two years. The  Government’s information  supports
the allegations of multiple criminal charges presented in SOR 1.a – 1.f. (FORM, Items 1,
3, 5 – 9)
Applicant’s most recent arrest arose from his conduct in August 2020 in State A.
He assaulted his former girlfriend by hitting her in the head with a handgun. He did so
after becoming angry when she told him she was seeing someone else, even though they
had parted ways eight months earlier. A photo included in the police report compiled on
the night of that incident shows the victim with blood on her face and shirt. A responding
police  officer  observed  that  there  was  a  gash  in  the  victim’s  head  that  would  require
medical treatment and that the victim appeared concussed. Applicant had left the scene
before police arrived and was subsequently determined to be a fugitive. He was arrested
in State B in March 2022 and extradited to State A where the two felony charges listed in
SOR  1.a  were  entered  as  nolle  prosequi,  and  he  pleaded  guilty  to  the  misdemeanor
charges. All but two months of a 12-month jail sentence were suspended. (FORM, Items
4 – 7, 9, and 10)
When Applicant listed the August 2020 incident in his e-QIP, he stated only that
he was charged with simple assault and battery, and that he was released after he was
arrested. He further stated that the victim initiated the incident and that he was arrested
“because  she  was  a  female  and  she  started  it.”  During  his  PSI  with  a  government
investigator, Applicant discussed this event and characterized it as a “cat fight” in which
the  victim  started  slapping  him,  so  he  slapped  her  back.  He  claimed  that  he  only
accidentally  scratched  her  in  the  process  and  may  have  drawn  a  little  blood.  In  his
response to SOR 1.a, he repeated this version of events. (FORM, Items 3 – 5)
The  Government’s  information  and  Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  support  the
allegations under Guideline F. Applicant did not list any adverse financial information as
required by e-QIP Section 26 (Financial Record). Nonetheless, he admits the allegations
that  he  owes  the  debts  listed  in  SOR  3.a  –  3.k.  In  his  PSI,  he  stated  that  he  started
experiencing financial difficulties in about July 2020 after a contract he was on ended. In
response to the SOR, he claimed he had paid the debt at SOR 3.a. Information included
with his response to DOHA interrogatories coupled with a recent credit report provided by
Department Counsel supports his claim of payment. However, he also claimed to have
paid the debt at SOR 3.k and that he was resolving SOR 3.d and 3.g. He did not provide
information that supports those claims or that indicates the current state of his personal
finances. (FORM, Items 3, 5, 11 – 13)
