Applicant is a 29-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  never  married  but  has  cohabited  with  his  fiancé  since  June  2018.
(Items  3-4)  He  has  two  biological  children  and  two  stepchildren.  (Items  3-4)  Applicant
reported  no  high  school  class  work  or  earned  degrees  or  diplomas.  He  did  not  report
any military service. (Item 3)
Since  June  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer  as  a
technical  order  librarian.  (GE  1)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other  employers  in  various
jobs.  Applicant  reported  brief  periods  of  unemployment  between  August  2017  and
January  2018  and  cited  work-related  disputes  with  his  supervisor  over  submitted
paperwork  as the  assigned  reasons  for his involuntary  termination from  a  senior living
home in 2017. (Item 4) Applicant has never held a security clearance. (Item 3)
Applicant’s finances
Records document that Applicant did not file his federal and state A income tax
returns, as required, for tax years 2017 through 2021. (Items 2-5) While he did not file
State B income tax returns for tax years 2019-2021, State B reportedly does not have
state income tax-filing requirements for the years in issue. And, without a state income
tax, state tax returns would not be required of State B residents.
Applicant attributed his federal and State A tax-filing lapses to his lack of federal
and  state  tax  forms  for  tax  years  2017-2021  and  time  conflicts  with  scheduling
appointments with a “live agent.” (Item 3)
Pressed further by an agent of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in an
ensuing  November  2022  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  about  his  tax-filing  lapses,
Applicant  told  the  investigator  only that  he  was  unable  to  file  his  federal and  state  tax
returns for tax years 2017-2021 with his Turbo tax app. (Item 4)
Applicant  added  that  he  owed  the  IRS  approximately  $11,000  in  back  taxes.
(Item 4) Whether he ever filed federal and State A tax returns and paid any taxes owed
for  the  specified  years  in  question  is  not  documented  by  Applicant  and  cannot  be
credited to him without verification.
Besides  his  tax-filing  lapses,  Applicant  accumulated  three  delinquent  accounts
exceeding $1,500. (Items 3-5) The individual amounts of the debts are relatively small
(none exceeding $680), and most of them, according to Applicant, have been removed
from  his  credit  report.  (Items  3-5).  Still,  Applicant,  to  date,  has  not  addressed  them  in
any tangible way.
Afforded an opportunity to supplement the FORM with updates about the status
of his federal and state tax return filing status and payments and delinquent consumer
accounts,  Applicant  did  not  provide  any  additional evidence  or information.  Nor did he
provide  any  evidence  of  payment  plans  with  any  of  his  creditors.  Neither  budgets  nor
financial  statements  covering  Applicant’s  income  sources  and  expense  allocations
were  furnished.
Applicant’s use of illegal drugs
From about June 2013 to March 2022, Applicant used marijuana, typically “once
a  week  to  almost  twice  a  week.”  (Item  3)  In  his  November  2022  PSI,  he  trimmed  his
marijuana use to 20 to 25 times over the same eight-year timeframe (typically two hits at
a time in the company of his brother).
In his PSI, Applicant assured he has not used marijuana since March 2022 and
has no intention of using  the substance in the future. (Item, 4) Applicant’s inconsistent
accounts  of  his  marijuana  use  leave  considerable  doubts  about  the  extent  of  his
marijuana use and whether he at risk of resumption in the foreseeable future.
