Applicant is 35 years old, has never married, and has no children. Since January
2017, he has taken college courses but has not earned a degree. Since April 2022, he
has served full-time as an intern for a defense contractor. (Item 4.)
Under Guideline  H, the  SOR alleged  that Applicant:  (a)  from  about January 2010
until  at   least   August   2020   used   hallucinogenic  mushrooms  with   varying   frequency;  (b)
from  about  January  2004 until at least  July 2020 used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency;
(c)  from  about January 2017  until at least  January 2019  used  amphetamines with  varying
frequency;   (d)   from  about   January 2011  until   at   least   January 2018   used   cocaine   with
varying   frequency;  (e)  from   about  January  2017   until  at  least  April  2017   used
heroin/opium  with  varying  frequency; (f)  from  about January 2015  until at least January
2016   used   prescription   medication   Adderall   that  was  not  prescribed   for  him;  (g)  from
about January 2009  until about  January 2020  purchased  marijuana  on  various  occasions;
(h) in about January 2017  purchased  cocaine;  (i)  from  about January 2017   until about
April  2017   purchased   heroin/opium   on   various  occasions;  and   (j)  in   about  September
2013  was charged  with  Narcotic Equipment-Possession-of-Drug-Paraphernalia. (Item  1.)
He  admitted   those   allegations  with   no   explanations.  ((Item   3.)  The   2013   charge   of
possession  of drug  paraphernalia  resulted  in  a  guilty finding  (a misdemeanor)  and  fine.
(Item  4.)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (a)  in  about  2018  was
terminated from his employment for testing positive for illegal drugs; and (b) in about 2010
or 2011 during a drug test administrated by his employer, fraudulently submitted someone
else’s  urine  in  place  of  his  own.  (Item  1.)  He  admitted  those  allegations  with  no
explanations. (Item 3.)
The following are salient excerpts from Applicant’s personal subject interview (PSI)
(Item 5 at 4-6):
Applicant used marijuana from about January 2004 to July 2020. He used it daily
from a pipe or a bong. He denied any adverse effects or that he became addicted to it.
His  usage  was  within  his  budget  and  cost  between  $20  to  $40  per  week.  In  about
February 2020, he decided to stop using for health and overall wellness reasons. He has
no plans to ever return to using marijuana.
Applicant  used  mushrooms  from  about  January  2010  to  August  2020.  He  used
infrequently,  probably  twice,  and  did  not  have  favorable  experiences.  He  did  not  get
addicted to the drug.
Applicant used cocaine from about January 2011 to January 2018 socially fewer
than five times. He did not get addicted to the drug and has no intention of using it in the
future.
Applicant used heroin and opium from about January 2017 to April 2017. He did
get addicted to heroin and was using it several times per day. It was costing him $1,000
to $1,500 per day. When he realized what was happening to him, he quit using the drug
“cold  turkey.”  It  was  causing  him  financial  stress,  and  that  was  one  of  the  reasons  he
stopped using the drug.
Applicant  used  Adderall  from  about  January  2017  to  January  2019.  He  had  a
prescription for about a month during that period (duration not stated) and knew its effects.
After that, he had a friend who had a prescription and who gave him some on perhaps
five occasions.
Applicant described himself as a free spirit when younger and was not afraid  to
experiment with illegal drugs. He was also curious about the effects of those drugs. He
has since realized the danger of that attitude. He has decided that illegal substances will
not help him have a brighter future and has made a conscious decision to stop all uses
of illegal drugs. He has not had any treatment or cessation programs but stopped all uses
on his own. He is adamantly against the use of any illegal drugs at this point in his life
and has no intentions of using in the future.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. The guidelines are flexible
rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the whole-
person  concept.  An  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available  and  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant  or proven  by Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be  questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise questions about a  person’s
ability or willingness to  with laws, rules and regulations:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
Marijuana,  hallucinogenic  mushrooms,  amphetamines,  cocaine,  heroin,  non-
prescribed  drugs,  heroin,  and  opium  are  “controlled  substances” listed  on  Schedules I
through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. § 812 (c).
AG  ¶  25  describes  conditions  that  could  raise  a  security  concern  and  may  be
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition); and
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance, including…purchase.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i alleged Applicant’s years of a pattern of using (for heroin
and  marijuana  also  purchasing)  the  federally  controlled  drugs  listed  above.  He
unequivocally admitted those allegations.
Facts admitted by an applicant in an Answer to a SOR require s no further proof
from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any
admissions [applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of
its burden of proof”); and Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n
applicant’s  admissions, whether testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an
Administrative  Judge’s  findings”).  Applicant  admitted  facts  that  trigger  disqualifying
conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) through (c).
The  next  inquiry is whether Applicant’s  illegal drug use has been mitigated, The
following three mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 26: for drug involvement and substance
abuse may potentially apply:
(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  happened
under  such   circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely   to   recur  or  does  not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,   trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
(b)  the  individual acknowledges  .  .  .  his drug  involvement and  substance
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem,
and has established a pattern of abstinence . . . ; and
(c)  abuse  of  prescription  drugs  was  after  a  severe  or  prolonged  illness
during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended.
I considered mitigating condition  AG ¶  26(a). Applicant’s  illegal use of a host of
drugs began in 2004 (marijuana). Although that is quite a while ago, it not only continued,
it  ultimately  branched  out  to  his  illegal  use  of  five  other  drugs.  That  train  of  usage  only
ended when for health and wellness reasons he decided to stop on his own in February
2020. Even so, the record shows that he continued to use marijuana until July 2020. His
2013 charge and conviction of possession of drug paraphernalia was just another episode
in what would continue to be a history of drug use. His decades of illegal drug use is not
mitigated under AG ¶ 26(a).
I considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(b). During the clearance investigation,
Applicant was completely forthright in detailing his long history of illegal drug use, thereby
satisfying the initial element of this mitigating condition. What is lacking, however, is any
evidence of his actions to overcome his problem, other than his word that he decided in
2020 (February or July) to cease illegal drug usage. This mitigating condition also requires
an applicant to show “a  pattern of abstinence.” After nearly 20 years of illegal drug use,
three years of abstinence is hardly a sufficient pattern of abstinence. His illegal drug use is
not mitigated under AG ¶ 26(b).
I considered mitigating condition AG ¶ 26(c). The record shows only that Applicant
had, for a time, a prescription for Adderall. After that expired, he accepted the drug from a
friend who had a prescription for that medication. Applicant’s misuse of that medication is
not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(c).
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
Under Guideline  E  for personal conduct,  the  concern is that “[c]onduct  involving
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules
and regulations can raise questions about an individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, and
ability  to  protect  classified  or sensitive  information.”  AG  ¶  15.  More  specifically,  AG ¶
16(c) provides the following disqualifying condition:
credible  adverse  information  in  several  adjudicative  issue  areas
that is not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other
single guideline, but which, when considered as a whole, supports
judgment,
a  whole-person  assessment  of  questionable
untrustworthiness,  unreliability,  lack  of  candor,  unwillingness  to
comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  or  other  characteristics
indicating that the individual may not properly safeguard classified
or sensitive information.
In this case, the SOR made two allegations under Guideline E. The first was that
in 2010 or 2011 during a drug test administrated by his employer, Applicant fraudulently
submitted someone else’s urine in place of his own. The second was that in about 2018
he was terminated from his employment for testing positive for illegal drugs. He admitted
those allegations. His admitted conduct triggers disqualifying condition AG ¶ 16(c).
I  have  reviewed  the  entire  record  and  the  seven  mitigating  conditions  in  AG  ¶¶
17(a) through (g). There are no facts that would support any of those mitigating conditions.
Whole-Person Concept
The ultimate determination of whether to grant eligibility for a security clearance
must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful  consideration  of  the
guidelines  and  the  whole-person  concept.  AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)  (explaining  the
“whole-person” concept and factors).  In my analysis above, I considered the potentially
disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the
facts and circumstances surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance.  For  these  reasons,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  mitigated  the  security
concerns  arising  under  Guideline  H,  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse,  and
Guideline E, personal conduct.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement):
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.i:
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, (Personal Conduct)
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a  –  2.b:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
____________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
