Applicant is a 27-year-old man with a high school education. He served in the U.S.
Army National Guard from 2014 to 2020. During his stint in the National Guard, he was
deployed in a combat zone overseas for six months between December 2016 and June
2017. (Item 4 at 2) His discharge was honorable.(Item 3 at 11) He has been working for a
defense contractor as a computer specialist since 2018.
Applicant is highly respected on the job. An intern who met and worked with him in
2022 considers him a role model with a superior work ethic and a keen attention to detail.
(Item 2 at 3) Per a coworker, Applicant has incredible leadership and trustworthiness skills.
(Item 2 at 4)
Between January 2020 and April 2020, Applicant used marijuana twice. The first
time, he smoked it in a bong pipe, shared with friends, and the second time, he ingested it
in edible form.(Item 4 at 4) Applicant had a security clearance when he used marijuana.
Before using the marijuana, he had spoken with other people with security clearances who
used marijuana and they advised him that it was not a big deal. (Item 4 at 5) Applicant’s
marijuana use occurred while granted access to classified information. (Item 2 at 1)
Applicant attributes peer pressure for his decision to smoke marijuana. Specifically,
his then-roommate pressured him constantly to use it. (Item 2 at 1) Applicant has not used
marijuana since the April 2020 episode. In December 2022, he moved out of the apartment
that he shared with the marijuana-smoking roommate and executed an affidavit expressing
his intent never to use marijuana again. (Item 2 at 2)
Applicant falsified a  security clearance application, completed in 2021, when he
failed to disclose his marijuana use and the fact that he used marijuana while possessing a
security clearance. (Item 2 at 1) In his SOR answer, he contends that he did not disclose
the marijuana use on his application because he did not remember the instances when he
used  it.  (Item  1  at  2)  During  an  investigative  interview  in  January  2022,  he  told  the
investigative  agent  that  he  did  not  disclose  the  marijuana  on  the  security  clearance
application because he thought he was only required to disclose hard drugs like heroin or
cocaine. (Item 4 at 4)
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security, emphasizing
