Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since about October 2016. His employer has promoted him twice.
He earned a high school diploma in 2001. He has been married since 2010. He has four
children, ages 22, 20, 12, and 10. He has held a security clearance since August 2017.
(Tr. 20-21, 41-42; GE 1, 2)
In  about  March  2004,  when  Applicant  was  20  years  old,  he  was  arrested  and
charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  in  State  A  after  drinking  too  much  at  a
friend’s  house  and  deciding  to  drive  back  to  his  father’s  house.  He  was  arrested  after
police pulled him over for weaving and crossing the center line on the road. He failed a
field  sobriety  test.  He  also  had  a  warrant  for  his  arrest  for  not  having  a  valid  vehicle
inspection.  Police  took  him  to  a  detention  center  where  they  administered  him  a
breathalyzer  test  and  the  result  indicated  that  he  had  a  0.108  percent  blood  alcohol
content  (BAC).  He  pleaded  nolo  contendere  to  the  charge.  He  was  sentenced  to  18
months of community supervision, had to attend an alcohol awareness course, and his
license  was  suspended  for  a  year.  He  reported  this  arrest  on  his  2021  Electronic
Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (SF 86). (Tr. 17-18, 21-28; Answer; GE 1,
2, 4)
After his 2004 DWI arrest, Applicant contacted the DMV in State A to  determine
the  requirements  to  have  the  restrictions  removed  from  his  driver’s  license.  His
understanding  of  the  information  that  the  DMV  provided  him  was  that  he  had  to  pay
fees. After he paid those fees, he thought he was permitted to drive. However, in 2005,
police pulled him over for driving with an invalid license. He had only removed two of the
three suspensions that had been placed on his driver’s license. As a result, he spent a
day  in  jail  and  had  his  period  of  community  service  extended.  However,  he  soon
thereafter completed  all the  requirements of  the  sentence  from his 2004  DUI  and  was
able to have his driver’s license fully reinstated. (Tr. 25-28; Answer; GE 1, 2, 4)
From 2005 until April 2021, Applicant did not engage in any disqualifying conduct
with  alcohol,  nor  did  he  engage  in  criminal  conduct.  However,  in  April  2021,  he  was
arrested in State A and charged with DWI, second offense, after he was involved in a
minor, single-vehicle accident. He had five beers at a golf driving range and decided to
try  to  drive  home  despite  having  had  too  much  to  drink.  While  testifying,  he  clarified
without being asked that the beers he drank were not normal size beers but were “large”
beers.  While  driving,  he  took  his  eyes  off  the  road  to  check  driving  directions  on  his
phone,  hit  a  curb,  and  hit  his  head  against  the  steering  wheel,  dazing  himself.  Police
arrived at the scene and took him to the hospital where he consented to a blood draw.
He does not recall his BAC percentage, but knows it was over the .08 legal limit.  After
treatment at the hospital, he spent a night in jail. (Tr. 17-18, 28, 33-36; Answer; GE 1-3;
AE A)
While Applicant was awaiting trial, at his attorney’s suggestion, he attended and
completed  a  32-hour  alcohol  repeat-offender  program  and  a  Mother’s  Against  Drunk
Driving (MADD) victim-impact panel. As he had completed these courses, and given the
17-year  period  between  his  alcohol-related  charges,  the  judge  convicted  him  of  the
reduced  charge  of  first-offender  DWI.  He  was  placed  on  probation  until  August  2024
and his license was suspended for a year. He reported this arrest on his SF 86 and told
his employer and FSO about it. (Tr. 35-37, 47-48; Answer; GE 1-3; AE A)
Applicant suffered significant childhood trauma. In early 2021, when his own son
reached the age where Applicant began suffering said trauma, he began to experience
renewed  mental  anguish  from  it.  He  did  not  know  how  to  deal  with  his  feelings  and
internalized them. He and his wife began having marital problems, and he engaged in
the conduct that resulted  in his  April 2021 arrest  during this time. He  claimed that this
arrest  was  a  wakeup  call  to  get  help  for  himself  and  his  marriage.  In  May  2021,  he
began psychotherapy that he has continued up to the date of the hearing. His counselor
holds  a  master’s  degree  in  counseling  education  and  is  a  licensed  professional
counselor.  She  opined  that  he  has  been  learning  healthy  coping  skills  and  has  been
receptive and cooperative during the therapy process. She does not believe that he has
a  substance-use  disorder.  Applicant  plans  to  continue  with  this  treatment.  (Tr.  18-19,
29-39, 43-47; Answer; GE 1, 2; AE A)
After  his  2021  arrest,  Applicant  and  his  wife  have  attended  marital  counseling
and  his  marriage  is  in  a  much  better  place.  Prior  to  his  arrest,  he  had  not  shared  his
childhood trauma with his wife, but he has since. He has discussed it with her and with
his  family.  He  feels much  better  after  attending  psychotherapy  and  has  learned  better
coping  mechanisms.  He  also  attends  church-organized  group  self-improvement
sessions for his betterment three times per week. While he has not been diagnosed with
a substance-use disorder, he has abstained from alcohol since the day of his April 2021
arrest. He plans to continue his abstinence. He claims that he does not need alcohol to
enjoy himself and it has  only brought him trouble. (Tr. 18-19, 37-48; Answer; GE 1, 2;
AE A)
One of Applicant’s colleagues, a supervisor, and a friend have written character-
reference  letters  advocating  that  he  be  awarded  a  security  clearance.  They  have  also
attested to his good character, trustworthiness, and reliability. (AE B)
