In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted using marijuana, but she denied
the allegation in part, denying that her prior legal use of medical marijuana “is any way
indicative of [her] ability to serve the national interest  in trustworthiness and  reliability.”
Her partial admission is incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 29-year-old cybersecurity penetration tester employed by a defense
contractor since January 2022. She received an associate degree in September 2015, a
bachelor’s degree in August 2017, and  a master’s degree in August 2021. She married
in September 2017. She has never held a security clearance.
Applicant disclosed her marijuana use in her SCA. She disclosed that she used it
experimentally  once  in  2013,  abstained  until  2019,  used  it  both  recreationally  and
medically about seven times from 2019 to August 2021, and had abstained from about
August 2021 until April 2022. She stated that she intended to use it in the future, especially
in  legal  jurisdictions  permissible  by  ongoing  progressive  federal  and  state  cannabis
legislation  and  regulations.”  She  explained,  “When  the  controlled  substance  is  not
abused, there are numerous medical benefits for [her] dietary conditions . . . as well as
occasional stress-relief alternative benefits.”
When  Applicant was interviewed  by a  security  investigator in May 2022, she  stated
that she  did  not plan  to  continue  her marijuana  use  unless it becomes “federally legal”
and   she   received   a   medical  prescription   for  health   reasons.  (FORM   Item   5   at   5)  In
response   to   DOHA  interrogatories  on   May  4,  2023,  she   declined   to   provide   a   signed
statement  of  intent   to   abstain   from   all   drug   involvement  and   substance   misuse   and   to
acknowledge  that any future involvement or misuse  is grounds for revocation  of national
security eligibility.  (FORM  Item  5  at 11)  In  her response  to  the  FORM, she  submitted  a
copy of her state-issued  medical marijuana  card and  asked  for a  waiver, based  on  her
recent diagnosis of exocrine  pancreatic insufficiency and  fibromyalgia, and  promising  that
her use of cannabis would be strictly medical and not recreational. (AX A)
