Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged that Applicant used marijuana between May
2017 and April 2022 (SOR 1.a); and that he used marijuana after being granted a security
clearance in approximately March 2007 (SOR 1.b). (FORM, Item 1)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  made  false
statements of relevant and material facts to the government by failing to disclose his illegal
drug  use  as  required  by  e-QIPs  he  submitted  in  September  2006  (SOR  2.a)  and  in
January 2017 (SOR 2.b). Additionally, it was alleged he made false statements of relevant
and  material  facts  to  the  government  by  failing  to  disclose  his  illegal  drug  use  while
possessing a security clearance as required by his January 2017 e-QIP (SOR 2.c). The
SOR also cross-alleged as disqualifying personal conduct the illegal drug use addressed
in SOR 1.a and 1.b (SOR 2.d). (FORM, Item 1)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  with
explanations. A review of his response to the allegations of intentional false statements,
he  also expressly denied  that he  “intended  to  make  false claims or falsify documents.”
(FORM, Item 2) Accordingly, I have interpreted his response as a denial of SOR 2.a, 2.b,
and 2.c. As such, those allegations presented controverted issues of fact and the burden
of  proof  for  those  facts  remained  with  the  Government.  (See  Directive  at  E3.1.14)  In
addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions to the remaining allegations,
and based on my review of the information presented in the FORM and AE A, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor  located  in  State  A,
where he has lived since September 2005. He has worked for that employer since August
2006. He graduated from high school in 2001 and received a college degree in May 2005.
He and his wife have been together since about 2003 and married in 2013. They have
two children under ten years old. (FORM, Item 3)
Applicant has held at least a secret-level security clearance for his entire tenure
with his current employer. He submitted an e-QIP in September 2006 to obtain eligibility
for a security clearance when he was first hired. He submitted another e-QIP in January
2017 to renew his eligibility. The e-QIP he submitted in March 2022 appears to have been
intended  to  qualify  him  for  a  top  secret-level  clearance.  In  response  to  the  FORM,
Applicant indicated he no longer requires eligibility at the top-secret level. (FORM, Items
3 – 5, 7; AE A).
Applicant first used marijuana in high school. He used it once in May 2001 and did
not  use  it  again  until  2009.  In  2009,  his  then  girlfriend  and  future  wife  was  receiving
chemotherapy as part of her cancer treatment. At the time, it was legal in State A to use
marijuana with a medical prescription, which she was given to help her tolerate the effects
of her cancer treatments. Applicant started using some of her medical marijuana with her
to help him cope with the stress of their situation. It was still illegal in State A for him to
do so at that time. (FORM, Items 2, 3 and 6; AE A)
In  November  2016,  State  A  legalized  the  personal  possession  and  use  of
marijuana  for  persons  over  21  years  of  age.  Subsequently,  Applicant  began  using
marijuana a few times monthly to alleviate back pain and other aches and pains he was
experiencing. (FORM, Items 2, 3 and 6; AE A)
On  April 21  and  May 11, 2022, Applicant completed  personal subject interviews
(PSI) with  a  government investigator as part of his current background  investigation. In
his April PSI,  he  affirmed  his intent  to  continue  using  marijuana  because  it  is legal in  State
A.  In   his  May   PSI,  he   was   confronted   with   the   fact   that   the   use   and   possession   of
marijuana  are still  illegal under  federal law, and  that as  a  federal  contractor  he  is required
to  follow federal law.  He  claimed  that  he  had  not been  made  aware  by his company of the
need  to  follow  federal laws regarding  marijuana  but stated  he  would  seek advice from  his
employer. (FORM, Item 6)
I take  administrative  notice  of  the  fact  that the  psychoactive  ingredient of  marijuana
is  tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  a   federally  controlled   substance,  the   unauthorized
possession  and  use  of  which  are  criminal violations  of  the  Controlled  Substances  Act,  21
U.S.C. §  802  et seq.  During  his May  PSI, he  acknowledged  his understanding  that  use  of
marijuana  is still  a  violation  of federal criminal law. Guidance  issued  by the  Office  of the
Assistant  Secretary  of   Defense   (OASD)   in  February  2013,  which   was  updated   by  the
Director of National Intelligence  (DNI) in December 2021, makes clear that changes  in
the   laws  pertaining   to   marijuana   by  the   various  states,  territories,   and   the   District  of
Columbia   do   not   alter   the   current  National  Security  Adjudicative   Guidelines.  Because
federal  law supersedes state  laws on  this issue, Applicant’s use  of marijuana, regardless
of  location   or  even   medical  justification   in  his  state   of  residence,  was  illegal.  Further,
federal workplaces prohibit illegal drug  use  by  civilian  federal employees and  by persons
employed for work on federal contracts.
Applicant has not used marijuana since April 2022. In his response to being asked
through DOHA interrogatories why he stopped, he stated:
I realized  I  was  making  a  mistake  and  that  federal  laws need  to  be  held  in
higher regard than  my  local state  laws.  I chose  to  find  another  method  for
pain relief that follows all  federal laws. My career is important to  me,  and  I
do   not  want  to   do   anything   to   jeopardize   that,   especially  not  when   other
means of pain relief are readily available. (FORM, Item 6)
When  Applicant  was  hired  by  his  employer  in  2006,  he  was  administered  a
urinalysis drug test, which he presumably passed. Thereafter, he submitted an e-QIP to
obtain  a  secret-level  security  clearance.  He  did  not  disclose  in  that  application,  as
required by questions in e-QIP Section 24 (Your Use of Illegal Drugs and Drug Activity),
that  he  had  used  marijuana  in  high  school.  He  subsequently  received  a  security
clearance. (FORM, Items 5 and 7)
Applicant’s  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  was  renewed  in  2017
based, in part, on the information he submitted in a second e-QIP on January 11, 2017.
In that e-QIP, he again did not disclose his use of marijuana as required by questions in
Section  23  (Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity).  By  this  time,  he  had  been  using
marijuana with his wife since 2009 and once it became legal in late 2016, he was using it
several times a month. It was not until he submitted his most recent e-QIP in March 2022,
that  he  responded  “yes”  to  Section  23  questions,  thereby  disclosing  that  he  used
marijuana as discussed herein, above. (FORM, Items 3 – 5)
In response to the SOR, Applicant stated he “was a young kid who made a stupid
mistake”  in  omitting  his  drug  use  from  the  first  e-QIP.  He  also  stated  that  he  made
mistakes by completing the form too quickly. As to his second e-QIP, he stated he did not
think he needed to change any of the pre-populated information from his first e-QIP and
that he probably rushed his completion of that form as well. However,  in his second e-
QIP, he took enough time to provide new information about his passport, his residences,
personal  references,  his  marital  status,  foreign  travel,  and  his  prior  background
investigation. In response to the FORM, he admitted that he was “scared of what might
happen if [he] told the truth” when  he  submitted  his first e-QIP, and that he wishes he
“had been strong enough to be honest.” As to his second e-QIP, he avers he “failed to do
[his] due diligence 10 years later.” (FORM, Items 2, 4 and 5; AE A)
In response to the FORM, Applicant also provided a signed statement stating he
intends to abstain from all illegal drug use in the future, and with the understanding that
any future use could result in the loss of his security clearance. He further described his
efforts (e.g., yoga, exercise, dietary changes) at alternative pain and stress relief. His wife
provided a statement to the effect that she believes Applicant is “100% honest,” and she
corroborated the lifestyle changes he has made. (AE A)
