Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.b and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c with explanations.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 43 years old. After graduating high school in 1998 he attended some
college but did not receive a degree. He has been self-employed since 2003. He is being
sponsored by a defense contractor for his security clearance. (Item 3 at 8-13, 22.)
SOR ¶  1.a: An account placed for collection in the amount of $58,620. Applicant
denies the debt. He states in his Answer that he did lease property from the creditor and
that during the COVID pandemic he did relinquish property to the creditor “free and clear
with no debt owed to them.” He did not offer any documentary evidence in corroboration
or  support  of  his  Answer.  When  he  was  confronted  with  the  debt  during  his  security
clearance interview in September 2022,  he  acknowledged  it was  a warehouse  he  had
leased but stated he did not have an outstanding balance when he completed his lease
and was unaware of any outstanding balance. He did not reference the COVID  pandemic
during the interview. His July 2022 credit report lists the debt as placed for collection, with
the date assigned as October 2021, and a balance of $55,546. The debt is not listed on
his May 2023 credit report. (Item 4 at 3; Item 5; Item 6 at 2.)
SOR ¶  1.b: An auto  loan  placed  for collection  in the  amount of $9,566. Applicant
admits  the   debt.   He  states  in  his  Answer  he   was  informed   it  was  charged   off   and
processed  and  “could  not  be  re-opened.”  During  his security clearance  interview he  told
the  investigator  that the  debt  arose  from  a  truck he  purchased  for  work. When  it  broke
down in  2022,  he  stopped  making  payments.  (Item  6  at 3.) The  debt is reflected  in  Item
5.  He did offer to the investigator a letter showing he had paid in full an account with this
creditor. However, there  is no  amount listed  and  the  account  numbers do  not match.  (Item
4   at  3.)   Another  account  listed   with   this  creditor  does  reflect  it  was  closed   with   no
outstanding financial obligations. (Item  4 at 4.)
SOR ¶  1.c: A medical account placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$1,131. Applicant denies the debt. He states in his Answer the debt should have been
covered  by  insurance.  The  debt  arose  from  an  accident  and  the  company  never
completed the coverage. He stated he was unaware the account existed. He did not offer
any documentary evidence in corroboration or support of his claim that the debt was or
should be covered by insurance.  The most recent record evidence, a May 2023 credit
report,  shows no action.  The first delinquency  was  listed  as December 2018  and both
credit reports show the debt assigned in May 2019. (Item 5 at 2; Item 6 at 3.)
Applicant listed one delinquent account not alleged on  the SOR in his SCA. He
discussed this deb and also why he withdrew his Chapter 13 bankruptcy filing with the
investigator. He attributed his financial difficulties to a work slowdown due to the COVID
pandemic. (Item 3 at 24; Item 4 at 2; Item 6 at 2.)
