Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  has  never married  and  has  no  children.  (GE  1;  Tr.  79)  She  earned  a
high  school  diploma  in  June  2002.  Between  August  2002  and  August  2004,  she
attended college classes. She completed additional college classwork between January
2016  and  August  2016  without  earning  a  degree  or  diploma.  Applicant  earned  an
associate’s  degree  in  May  2019  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  fine  arts  with  honors  in
December  2021.  (GE  1;  Tr.  78-79)  Currently,  she  is  exploring  options  of  returning  to
college to pursue a master’s degree in leadership. (GE 1 and AE K; Tr. 38-40) Applicant
reported  no  military  service.  Since  August  2022,  she  has  worked  for  her  current
employer  as  an  aircraft  maintenance  mechanic.  (GE  1)  She  reported  unemployment
between  October  2021  and  August  2022.  (GE  1)  Applicant  has  never  held  a  security
clearance.
Applicant’s  criminal history
In  December  2007,  Applicant  forced  a  realtor  at  gunpoint  in  her  state  of
residence  to  withdraw  money  from  her  business  bank  account.  (GEs  2  and  4)  At  the
time,  she  was  living  in  the  home  she  purchased  sometime  in  2007  with  the  aid  of
supplied  financial  information  from  her  parents.  (GE  4;  Tr.  42,  45)  From  the  outset,
Applicant struggled with making her monthly mortgage payments and was working three
jobs  as  a  server  and  receptionist  to  make  ends  meet.  (GE  4)  Stressed  and  unable  to
find help from her mortgage company or other sources (even, reaching out to potential
roommates), Applicant panicked and turned to exploring illegal alternatives.
Posing as a foreign person looking to purchase a new home, Applicant enlisted a
realtor in December 2007 to take her through a listed home for sale. (GE 4) While in the
home,  Applicant  pulled  out  a  toy  gun  and  told  the  realtor  “that  she  was  going  to  die.”
(GE  4)  According  to  Applicant  and  supporting  investigation  records,  the  realtor  initially
struggled  with  Applicant  before  relenting  and  accompanying  Applicant  to  the  realtor’s
bank. (GE 4) Once inside the bank, the realtor (within sight of Applicant) instructed the
teller  to  release  $8,000  from  the  realtor’s  bank  account,  to  which  the  teller  complied.
(GE 4) With the $8,000 of the realtor’s withdrawn bank funds in hand, Applicant drove
home. (GE 4)
Claiming  she  was  too  overcome  with  financial  stress  over her  mortgage-related
struggles  to  recall  the  details  of  the  banking  incident  and  timely  report  them,  she
“carried  on  with  life”  until  she  was  identified  by  federal  investigators  as  the  assailant.
(GE 4) Once identified, Applicant claims to have become horrified at what she had done
and feigned disbelief of the incident. (GEs 1 and 4; Tr. 43-45, 49, and 67) Considering
all of the facts and circumstances surrounding her reported preparations and execution
of  the  incident,  Applicant’s  claims  of  surprise  and  anguish  are  more  reconcilable  with
calculated  memory  suppression  than  spontaneous  inability  to  recall  the  motivational
details  that  prompted  her  kidnapping  actions.  Without  documented  evidence  of
cognitive-related  memory  breakdown  associated  with  her  actions,  her  claims  can  be
afforded little substantive weight.
In April 2008 (four months after her kidnapping offense), Applicant was charged
with kidnapping under the Hobbs Act (federal kidnapping statute) and interference with
commerce  by  threat  or  violence.  (GEs  1-4)  Court  records  confirm  that  she  was
evaluated by a court-appointed mental health professional before being determined by
the court to be mentally competent to stand trial. (GE 2)
In  December  2009,  Applicant  entered  into  a  plea  agreement  with  federal
prosecutors.  (GE  2)  Because  the  terms  of  her  plea  agreement  remained  sealed,  they
are  not  available  for  external  review.  (GE  2).  Accepting  the  terms  of  Applicant’s  guilty
plea in April 2010, the court-imposed sentence as follows:  eight years in federal prison,
followed  by  five  years  of  supervised  release,  and  ordered  payment  of  $29,281  in
restitution.  (GEs  1-4;  Tr.  41)  The  court’s  docket  text  confirmed  the  entry  of  judgment
against  Applicant  with  the  incorporated  sentence  in  May  2010  (revised  in  July  2012).
(GE 2) Court records document mental health treatment while incarcerated. (GE 2) As a
part  of  her  supervised  release  conditions,  Applicant,  inter  alia,  was  directed  to
participate  and  successfully  complete  substance  abuse  and  mental  health  treatment
programs. (GEs 2 and 4)
Applicant  reported  no  court-ordered  mental  health  counseling  in  the  electronic
questionnaires for investigations processing (e-QIP) she completed in August 2022 (GE
1), despite claiming a mental health breakdown associated with her kidnapping incident
and her acknowledged post-release order to consult a mental health professional. Court
records do not reflect any raised mental health issues preparatory to her guilty plea and
ensuing  sentencing.  From  her  produced  training  materials,  Applicant  appears  to  have
taken  full  advantage  of  prison-offered  training  courses  designed  to  help  her  achieve
success  with  her  life  and  documented  a  number  of  certificates  of  completed  courses
while in incarceration. (AE L; Tr. 43-45)
For  good  behavior,  Applicant  was  granted  early  release  from  prison  in
September 2016, after five and one-half years of imprisonment. (Tr. 41, 49-50) While on
supervised probation, Applicant resided in a halfway house, where she enjoyed ingress
and egress privileges. (Tr. 44, 53) She expressed remorse for her actions and currently
attends  regular  Catholic  church  services  to  help  her  atone  for  her  prior  mistakes  and
actions.  (Tr. 39-40) And,  she  is credited  with  satisfying  the  court-ordered  $29,281  fine
imposed on her. (GE 4)
Complaining  of  depression  following  her release  from  prison, Applicant accepted
a  U.S.  probation   office  referral   to   a   licensed   mental  health   consulting   service  in  2016.
(AE  I;  Tr.  54-55)  Among  her  post-hearing  submissions, Applicant provided  a CV of  the
professional  counselor  she   consulted   with
federal
incarceration. (AEs  I and  M)  This credentialed  licensed  family therapist is credited  with
earning a  master’s degree  in clinical psychology  and  specializing  in family mental health
issues.  (AE   M).  She   is  of  record  in  providing   mental  health   counseling   services  to
Applicant   following   her  U.S.  probation   referral  acceptance.   (AE   I)  The   therapist’s
individualized   treatment  plan   covered   mental  health   issues,  relapse   prevention,
community  integration,  and   learning   skills  to   manage   symptoms   unique   to   people
diagnosed   with   mental  health   disorders.  (AE   I)  Applicant’s  therapist  described
Applicant’s  individual sessions and  credited  her with  a   willingness  to  explore past mal-
adaptive  coping  strategies. (AEs I and M)
following   her  release
from
Applicant  was  credited  by  her  mental  health  provider  with  successfully
completing her treatment  program  in 2018, with  both  good support  from her treatment
team  and  a  positive  prognosis  for  employing  her  learning  skills  in  rebuilding  and
repairing her relationships at home and in her community. (AE I) Applicant’s treatment
protocol did not include any assessment of her mental state of mind associated with her
charged kidnapping incident. Applicant’s rehabilitation efforts draw reinforcements from
her recent initiatives to finance a home and explore future educational opportunities with
her  educational  coaching  specialist.  (AE  K)  Her  efforts  are  ongoing  and  still  in  the
development stage.
Endorsements
Applicant  is   well-regarded   by  friends   and   colleagues   (AEs   A-H)   Her  supervisor
credited  Applicant with being  a  highly trusted  technician  and  a  “tremendous  asset  to  our
team,”   who  is  currently  serving   as  a   team   lead.  (AE   A)  Friends   of  Applicant   for  many
years  highlighted  her   caring,  polite,   and   her   trusted   relationships  with   them   and   her
church,  as well as the  community volunteer  relationships she  shares with  them.  (AEs B-
H)   All   of   her  character   references   credited   her  with   a  strong   work   ethic,  willingness   to
help others in need, and  commitments to  making  the  life  changes  needed  to  turn  her life
around.  (AEs  B-H)   And,  all  of   her   character  references   (save   for   two)  were   aware   of
Applicant’s criminal history. (Tr. 71-72)
