In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  charged  under
Guideline  B  concerning  his  family  members  in  Bangladesh,  and  he  denied  all  of  the
allegations cited under Guidelines F and E. After a thorough and careful review of the
pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  40  years old.  He  was  born  in Bangladesh.  In 2006  he obtained his
bachelor’s degree from a university in that country, and in June 2006, he married his wife.
In 2007, he moved to the United States, and in 2013, his wife and their older son moved
to the U.S. He has two sons, ages 9 and 14, and his youngest son has been diagnosed
with autism. His youngest son requires a special diet and expensive medication that is
not covered by insurance. In 2012, Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen. When
the COVID-19 pandemic hit the U.S. in March 2020, Applicant was unable to work and
received unemployment until 2021. Since 2022 he has been employed by a government
contractor as a testing engineer. His current salary is $97,000. His wife does not work.
This is Applicant’s first application for a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 39-48; GE 1; SOR
response)
Financial  Considerations
Applicant  began  to  experience  financial  difficulties  after  their  second  baby  was
born in 2014. His wife was unemployed, and he relied on several credit cards to pay their
monthly  household  expenses.  In  2016,  their  younger  son  was  diagnosed  with  severe
autism. At that time, they spent a significant amount of money for his treatment. Applicant
made  minimum  payments  on  the  credit  cards,  the  outstanding  balances  accumulated,
and in 2019, he was no longer able to make the minimum payments and the accounts
became past due.
Applicant testified that he hired a consumer debt resolution company (A) in 2019,
but  he  only  included  a  portion  of  his  delinquent  accounts  in  the  resolution  plan.  He
provided  some  bank  statements  that  showed  he  made  monthly  payments  of  $907  in
October and November 2019, March 2020, May through December 2020, and in June,
July, October, and November 2022. It appears he completed the program in May 2023.
There  is  no  information  showing  which  delinquent  creditors  were  included  in  this
agreement,  and  which  accounts  were  settled  or  satisfied  while  he  was  enrolled  in  the
program.  During  the  hearing,  I  offered  Applicant  the  opportunity  to  provide  more
information on this matter while the record was held open. He did not submit additional
documentation. (AE E, AE F; Tr. 50-55)
The SOR was issued in February 2023. Applicant provided documentation that in
March  2023,  he  entered  into  a  repayment  agreement  with  another  consumer  debt
resolution company (B). In this agreement he was to begin making monthly payments of
$325  in  March  2023,  with  his  last  payment  scheduled  for  February  2026.  There  is  no
supporting documentation to show what delinquent debts were included in the program
or whether Applicant made any of these payments. (AE D)
Two months later, in May 2023, Applicant joined debt resolution company (C) to
obtain debt settlements from his remaining delinquent creditors alleged in (SOR ¶ 1.a), a
department  store  account  in  the  amount  of  $8,203;  (SOR  ¶¶  1.d  and  1.i),  credit  card
accounts with the same creditor  in the amounts of $3,799 and $825, respectively; and
(SOR ¶ 1.e), for a bank credit card referred for collection in the amount of $3,442, for a
combined total of $16,269. He was to make monthly payments of $300 beginning in May
2023  for  an  estimated  42  months.  Based  on  the  current  credit  report  obtained  in
November 2023, it does not appear Applicant made the monthly payments per the terms
of the agreement since several of the delinquent account balances remained unchanged
after the SOR was issued in February 2023.  Only one debt alleged in  SOR ¶ 1.d was
reduced by $59. He did not provide supporting documentation while the record was held
open  to  provide  verification  of  monthly  payments.  These  delinquent  accounts  remain
unresolved. (AE B, GE 3, GE 4)
The November 2023 credit report showed that the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b,
1.g, and 1.h (unpaid credit cards and another department store account with a combined
total of $10,212), had been settled for less than the full balance. These debts are resolved.
The remaining delinquent accounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.f, (a collection account
and a retail merchant account totaling $6,000), did not appear on the current credit report.
Although there is no documentation in the record to show that these debts were resolved,
I have credited Applicant with the resolution of these debts based on his testimony and
assurances  that  these  debts  were  included  in  the  first  consumer  debt  resolution
company’s agreement he hired in 2019. (GE 4; Tr. 75)
Personal Conduct
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in June 2022, and he
certified with his signature that all of his responses were truthful and accurate. In response
to Section 26 – Financial Record: Delinquency Involving Routine Accounts: In the
past seven (7) years, [have you] defaulted on any type of loan; had bills or debts turned
over to a collection agency; … been over 120 days delinquent on any debt not previously
entered”;  Applicant  answered  “No.”  He  deliberately  falsified  this  information  when  he
failed to disclose his delinquent debts from the past seven years, as required. (SOR ¶
2.a.)  In  his  SOR  response  and  during  the  hearing,  he  stated  that  because  he  had
arranged to pay his delinquent debts through a consumer debt resolution company,  he
thought his denial on the SCA was appropriate. He said he did not fully understand the
question  and  had  no  intention  of  omitting  his  delinquent  financial  obligations.  (SOR
response; Tr. 55-60)
Department Counsel questioned Applicant about his background interview with an
authorized DOD investigator in August 2022. Applicant had verified with the investigator
that all of the information he provided in his SCA was accurate. When the investigator
confronted him about a charged-off debt with a department store in the amount of $8,203,
Applicant  had  disagreed  with  the  information  and  stated  that  he  was  unaware  of  the
account. (Tr. 57-59)
The following relevant information was developed during the hearing:
Department Counsel: …at the  time  of the  interview you  knew you  had  this
[department store] credit card that was delinquent; right?
Applicant:  Yes.
Department  Counsel:  So,  why  did  you  tell  the  investigator  that  you
disagreed and that you were not aware of the account?
Applicant: Again,   sir, I’m  so  foolish   that I write, not   write  this time   true. I
was thinking  that company take  care  of  my  credit cards.  So,  was telling  me,
like, everything they will take care of. I don’t have to worry about anything.
Department Counsel: … So, one of the big things we care about in these
security  clearance  hearings  is  truthfulness.  And  it  looks  like  that  you
purposely lied to the investigator. Did you lie to the investigator?
Applicant: On  that one  I can  say yes, I lied on  that.  Now I understand, sir.
But for this lying, I just  begging  you, ma’am, like  please  pardon  me  about
like  please  pardon  me  about that.  I agree  with  you, like,  I  was  lying  that time
because of my misunderstanding, too.  (Tr.  59-60)
Admin.  Judge:  All right. So, in regard to Guideline E, you said you admitted
that you lied about your finances; correct?
Applicant:  Yes.
Admin.   Judge:   Okay.  Did   you   lie   when   you   filled   out  your  security
clearance  application?  You  knew you  were  supposed  to  list that,  but you
didn’t; correct?
Applicant:  Yes.
Admin.  Judge:  Okay. And then when you met with the investigator during
your  background  interview,  when  she  confronted  you  with  all  these
delinquent debts you lied to her about your debt situation; correct?
Applicant: Yes. (Tr. 80-81)
On the basis of this testimony, I find that Applicant admitted that he deliberately
failed to disclose his debts on his SCA. Although not alleged in the SOR, Applicant also
admitted lying to the investigator during his background interview about his debts.
Foreign Influence
SOR ¶ 3.a stated that Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident of  Bangladesh.
Applicant  testified  that  his  father  passed  away  in  February  2023.  This  allegation  is
resolved in favor of Applicant. (Tr. 60-61; SOR response)
Applicant’s  brother  and  three  sisters  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Bangladesh.
(SOR ¶ 3.b) Applicant stated that his brother is 55 years old and is employed as a sales
manager in food supplies. He has never been affiliated with the Bangladesh military or
government. Applicant speaks with his brother every week through Facebook Messenger.
He last saw his brother in person in 2019 on a trip to Bangladesh. At one point Applicant
gave his brother approximately $500 after he requested the funds to repair their father’s
home. (Tr. 61-65, 72-73)
Applicant’s oldest sister is a housewife. She is not affiliated  with the Bangladesh
military or government. He rarely communicates with her and the last time he saw all of
his sisters in person was when he traveled to Bangladesh in 2019. His middle sister and
younger  sister  are  employed  as  teachers  for  primary  schools.  Teaching  positions  are
affiliated  with  the  Bangladesh  government  because  the  schools  are  managed  by  the
government.  The  last  time  he  communicated  with  these  sisters  was  approximately  six
months ago. His siblings have never been threatened by any Bangladesh authorities and
they live in safe locations. (Tr. 65-70)
The SOR alleges that his mother-in-law is a citizen of Bangladesh. (SOR ¶ 3.c)
Applicant stated that his mother-in-law is a green card holder and lives with his family in
the U.S. about six months out of the year. She returns to Bangladesh to reside for the
remaining six months. (Tr. 70-71)
Applicant currently rents a home now, but he hopes to buy a home in the U.S. in
the near future. He has a 401(k) retirement fund with his current employer worth about
$10,500. He does not have any assets in Bangladesh. (Tr. 73-75)
Administrative Notice
Bangladesh obtained its independence from Pakistan in 1971 and pursuant to its
constitution of 1972, it became a parliamentary democracy. Relations with Bangladesh
and  the  United  States  are  excellent,  and  Bangladesh  has  become  a  valuable  United
States  ally  in  the  Global  War  on  Terrorism.  However,  its  human  rights  record  has
worsened  over  the  years.  Incidents  causing  injury  and  death  derived  from  hate-based
communal protests and political differences occurred, with some violent extremist group
involvement. Some of the security forces have been accused of conducting extra-judicial
killings,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  and  other  human  rights  violations.  The  United
States  Department  of  State  advises  United  States  citizens  to  exercise  caution  in
Bangladesh due to crime, terrorism, and kidnappings. (AN 1)
