Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1997 and a master’s
degree in 2010. He married in 2008 and has no children. He began work for a federal
contractor in September 2022. (Item 4)
In September 2022, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA).
In response to Section 23 about any illegal drug use in the last seven years, he responded
that he possessed a medical marijuana card issued to him by his state. He stated that he
periodically consumes “1/8 ML of CBD oil which contains the cannabinoid THC. The dose
of CBD/THC is less than 5 mg.” He takes this dose three to five times a week at bedtime.
He takes it for ailments related to his disability. He obtains the drug from a dispensary in
his  state.  He  stated  that  he  answered  “yes”  to  the  question  about  illegally  purchasing
drugs  because  he  believed  purchasing  Tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC)  from  a  state
dispensary is still considered illegal under federal law. He is aware that his use of THC is
legal  under  his  state’s  law  but  is  illegal  under  federal  law.  He  renewed  his  medical
marijuana card in May 2022. He indicated on his SCA that he intended to use this drug in
the future as prescribed by his doctor. (Item 4)
In  October  2022,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He
disclosed to the investigator that he was prescribed medical marijuana by his doctor. His
appointments were online, and he will have annual appointments. His last appointment
was May 2022. He planned to continue to purchase and use medical marijuana. He used
it at home and around his spouse. He used it to help control anxiety and to help him sleep.
He has not participated in drug counseling or drug treatment. He has not been diagnosed
for drug abuse or dependency. He did not use any other illegal drugs to include the misuse
of prescription drugs. He did not associate with individuals who use drugs illegally. His
spouse and friends were aware he uses medical marijuana. His did not believe his use of
medical marijuana has contributed to any personal, financial, criminal, legal, security or
disciplinary  issues.  He  had  not  used  any  other  illegal  drugs  other  than  the  medical
marijuana.  He  planned  to  continue  to  use  medical  marijuana  until  another  course  of
treatment is prescribed. (Item 5)
In Applicant’s SOR answer, he admitted his use and purchase of THC with varying
degrees  from  May  2021  to  the  present  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b).  He  reaffirmed  that  he
intended to continue  using  CBD oil that  contains  THC that he  was prescribed  until his
doctor recommends another course of treatment (SOR ¶ 1.c). Applicant did not respond
to the FORM, so no new information was provided.1
