Applicant  is  a  58-year-old  electronics  mechanic  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  September  2013.  He  seeks  to  retain  his  Secret  security  clearance
which is a requirement of his continued employment. He stated that he has continuously
held  a  clearance  since  he  was  17  years  old  when  he  enlisted  the  U.S.  Air  Force,
discussed below. (Tr. 13-15) When asked what his company’s response would be if he
lost his clearance, he stated “I don’t know. Find yourself a good space under the bridge,
I guess.” (Tr. 49)
Applicant  graduated from high  school in June  1983.  He served in the  Air Force
from September 1983 to April 1991 as a navigational aids equipment specialist and was
honorably  discharged  as  a  sergeant  (pay  grade  E-4).  (Tr.  16-18;  GE  1)  He  has  been
employed by various defense contractors until the present since his discharge from the
Air Force. (Tr. 18;  GE 1) He married in  March  1985 and has been  separated  from his
wife  since  March  1994.  Applicant  described  the  current  status  with  his  wife  as
“reasonable.”  He  has  three  adult  children.  (Tr.  19-21;  GE  1)  His  wife  is  a  disabled
veteran  and  two  of  his  adult  children  live  with  and  care  for  her.  Applicant  does  not
provide support for his wife. (Tr. 21-22)
Alcohol Consumption/Psychological Conditions
The  SOR  allegations under  these  concerns are  established  by  Applicant’s  April
30, 2019 SF-86; his Office of Personnel Management (OPM) Personal Subject Interview
(PSI) conducted on June 21, 2019  with follow-on contact; his medical records, various
dates; his  August 12, 2022  summary of psychological evaluation by  a licensed clinical
psychologist;  his  April  6,  2023  SOR  admissions  to  all  allegations  alleged  under  these
concerns; and his hearing testimony. (GE 1 through 4; SOR Answer)
The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  three  SOR  allegations  raising  the  alcohol
consumption concerns.
SOR  ¶   1.a   –  Alleged  that  Applicant  was  hospitalized  for  about  one  week  in
February  2018  and  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  mild  to  moderate/abuse  (Dr.
K). The program recommend that Applicant attend Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and
abstain from alcohol.
Applicant was  hospitalized  as a  result  of  a  “5150  hold”  due  to  being  a  danger to
self and  others after expressing  suicidal  and  threatening  ideations to  his  coworkers.  (Tr.
23)   He   explained   that  he   had   transitioned   from   a   supervisory   position   to   a   non-
supervisory position at his request within his company “to be a worker, to have a good
time  like  everybody  else.”  (Tr.  24)  However,  his  company  “continued  to  force
responsibilities on me and basically coerced me without the pay or with the support to
being a leader.” (Tr. 24) This situation deteriorated and led to Applicant’s hospitalization
in  2018  as  alleged  in  the  SOR  allegations.  Before  this  2018  hospitalization,  Applicant
had not received any sort of psychological or psychiatric counseling. He testified that he
was, however, prescribed Prozac at some point prior to 2018, adding that he could not
“run around as a vegetable and do that.” (Tr. 24-26, 29-30)
Regarding his inability to recall dates and times, he stated, “I’ve worked six days
a week, 12 hours a day for the last 30 years, it’s all a blur.” (Tr. 27, 29) Applicant stated
that  he  stopped  taking  Prozac,  “[o]nce  I  found  out  that  my  girlfriend  was  yellin’  at  me
that ---” (Tr. 30) He did not consult a doctor when he stopped taking Prozac. (Tr. 30-31)
And, since Applicant stopped taking Prozac, he has not seen any medical professionals
regarding other options, whether it is medication or anything else. (Tr. 31)
After his discharge from the hospital in February 2018, Applicant had counseling
appointments “for a couple of months after that and a couple (of) group sessions . . . AA
meetings and things like that.” Applicant stated, “There’s no real cure for alcoholism. I’m
an alcoholic. I’m going to be an alcoholic for all my life and [all] I can do is try my best
and work on it and make sure I don’t get in a situation as to cause undue stress to make
me want to be stupid and think I can self-medicate.” (Tr. 28)
SOR ¶ 1.b  –  Alleged that Applicant continued to consume alcohol, until at least
June  2022,  not  in  accordance  with  the  treatment  advice  and  recommendations  as  set
forth in subparagraph 1.a, above.
Applicant stated that he used to be addicted to alcohol and now he is addicted to
coffee. When  he  attended  AA meetings,  he found  participants  telling  the  same  stories
and did not find too many people who had “really positive messages of getting through
things. I guess I didn’t find the right meeting or the right person, but it just – it wasn’t – it
wasn’t something I could do.” (Tr. 33) He did not seek any alternative to AA other than
going to church. (Tr. 33)
When Applicant was hospitalized in February 2018, he was drinking a 12-pack of
beer per day twice a week. (Tr. 33) After he was released, he remained sober and has
“fallen off the wagon several times since then.” (Tr. 33-34) He stated that he remained
sober for a year until “sometime in 2019” and then his drinking would stop and start for a
few  months.  (Tr.  34)  As  of  his  hearing  date,  he  had  a  drink  consisting  of  two  Trulies
(hard seltzer) within the last six months. (Tr. 35)
Applicant  has  limited  methods  to  maintain  sobriety.  He  stated  with  “this  court
thing . . . has kind of consumed me.”  (Tr. 35) He “was getting into trying to restore an
old  car,”  but  he  is  rarely  home  to  work  on  it.  (Tr.  35)  Applicant  stated  that  he  lives
“vicariously  now  through  my  girlfriend,  through  my  garden.”  (Tr.  35)  He  has  been  with
his  girlfriend,  who  is  retired,  for  25  years.  However,  most  of  the  time  he  is  on  work-
related  travel  and  concentrates  on  working.  His  girlfriend  is  supportive  of  him
maintaining   sobriety.  (Tr. 35,  44-45)  Applicant  does  not  see   his girlfriend   much   due   to
his work-related  travel but  keeps in  frequent  contact  with  her by  Skype or Zoom. (Tr.  47-
48)   He   also   promised  her  that   he   would   not  drink   around   his  seven-month-old
granddaughter.  (Tr.   44)  Applicant   stated   that  he   can   turn   to   a   “few  coworkers”   for
support and added that his line  of work is hard on family life. (Tr. 48)
SOR  ¶ 1.c  – Alleged that in August 2022, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed
clinical  psychologist  (Dr.  D)  and  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  severe.  The
psychologist  opined  that  his  diagnosis  is  a  current  significant  risk  to  his  judgment,
reliability or trustworthiness concerning classified information.
Applicant  acknowledged  showing  up  drunk  at  work  during  his  “heavy  drinking
days”  which  would  have  been  before  his  2018  treatment.  (Tr.  37-38)  He  also
acknowledged  that,  “it  would  be  helpful  to  talk  to  someone  outside  my  circle”  to  deal
with his alcoholism and depression. (Tr. 42) He stated that he might consider zoom-type
appointments if he, “could stay awake and find time.” He explained:
I’m  not  using  that as  an  excuse,  but my  day  starts at 3:30  in  the  morning.  I
wake   up.  I   eat  breakfast.   I   ride   my  motorcycle  across  the   bridge   to   [job
site]  where  I  get  there   at  4:30   to   avoid  –   to   find   a   place   to   park.  It’s  five
o’clock we start work. I get off work at 3:30. It takes an  hour and  a  half to
get  home.  I  take   a   shower.  I  clean   up.  I  try   to   relax.   It’s  a   long   day.  .  .  .
Every day for the  past 30 years. (Tr. 43)
Applicant  stated  his  work  schedule  was  typical  of  those  in  his  industry.  He  has
three weeks of vacation a year and is required to take it. During his vacation he sees his
doctor  to  manage  his  insulin  for  his  diabetes.  Applicant  claimed  that  he  is  gone  350
days out of the year on travel. (Tr. 45-47)
The following is a summary of the two SOR allegations raising the psychological
conditions concerns.
SOR ¶  2.a –  Alleged that in February 2018, Applicant was hospitalized for about
one  week  after expressing  suicidal  ideations and making  threatening  comments about
his  coworkers.  He  was  diagnosed  with  major  depression,  recurrent,  severe  without
psychosis;  alcohol  use  disorder,  mild  to  moderate/abuse;  and  moderate  to  severe
psychosocial stress (Dr. K). Upon discharge the program recommended that Applicant
have  individual  psychotherapy,  a  psychiatric  follow-up,  and  attend  an  intensive
outpatient program for mood disorder and chemical dependency. It also recommended
attending  AA  meetings  and  to  abstain  from  alcohol.  Applicant  did  not  follow  those
recommendations.
SOR  ¶   2.b   –  In  August  2022,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  clinical
psychologist  (Dr.  D)  and  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  severe;  other  specified
personality disorder; and major depressive disorder, recurrent episode, mild with mixed
features.  The  clinical  psychologist  opined  that  Applicant’s  diagnosis  is  a  current
significant  risk  to  his  judgment,  reliability  or  trustworthiness  concerning  classified
information.
To  manage  his  major  depressive  disorder,  Applicant  stated,  “I’ve  managed  to
take  enough  abuse  that  I’m  not  in  a  situation  where  I  have  to  be  underpaid  and
overworked. I just do my best, try to keep my head in the sand, not look around at what
others  are  doing.  I  realize  that  they  pretend  that  they  care  but  they  don’t  and  (I)  just
focus on work and work as hard as I can to try to make as much money as I can as fast
as I can to hopefully retire at 62.” (Tr. 36-37)
Applicant disagreed that his August 2022 diagnosis of major depressive disorder
is  a  current  significant  risk  to  his  judgement,  reliability  or  trustworthiness  concerning
classified information. He stated:
I’ve   been   an   alcoholic   for  all   of  my  life   and   I’ve   worked   in   this  business
around  various forms of levels of secrecy and  I consider myself to  be  the
least worry for discussing, exposing  of  classified  information.  I have  been
in  many  situations  in   restaurants   and   breakfast  places  in  the   morning   at
motels,  you   know,   with   other  contractors  and   other  people,  been   around
other   people   discussing   stuff   that   shouldn’t   be   said  all   the   time   and   I   –
what  I  tell   people,  I  pull   wires  and   install   boxes.  I  don’t  like   to   discuss
where   it   is,   what   it   is, and   I   don’t   consider myself   the   law.   What   goes  on
the road stays on the road. I don’t –  I’m  not a  security risk.  (Tr. 38)
Applicant  denied  having  any  suicidal  ideations  since  he  stopped  taking  Prozac
and denied feeling threatening towards others. (Tr. 39)
Personal Conduct
The  SOR  allegation  under  this  concern  is  established  by  Applicant’s  April  30,
2019 SF-86, his April 6, 2023 SOR admission, and his hearing testimony. (GE 1; SOR
Answer)
The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  one  allegation  under  the  personal  conduct
concern.
SOR ¶ 3.a  –  Alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on his SF-86, executed
by  him  on  April  30,  2019,  in  response  to  “Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug
Activity,  …  In  the  last  7  years,  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances?” Applicant answered “No” and, and thereby, deliberately failed to disclose
that  he  smoked  marijuana  once  every  two  months  prior  to  his  February  2018
hospitalization.
During  his  February  2018  interview  with  a  medical  doctor  (Dr.  K),  Applicant
reported the following drug abuse:
ALCOHOL  AND  DRUG  HISTORY:  The   patient  first  tried   alcohol  and
marijuana   at  age   15. He   also  tried   cocaine  and  methamphetamine   in  his
20s.  He  reports  that  he   had   been   increasingly  abusing   alcohol  recently
drinking   a   12-pack   of   beer   approximately   two   times   per  week.  He   does
use  marijuana  intermittently perhaps once  every two  months. He  does not
use any tobacco-related products. (GE 3,  pg. 1)
During his 2022 interview with a licensed clinical psychologist (Dr. D), Applicant
reported the following drug abuse:
[Applicant]   smoked   marijuana   in   high   school.  He  said   occasionally  he
would use  it at a  party.  He said his last  use  was “4-5  years ago.”  He then
qualified   that  he   may   use   marijuana   up   to   “once   a   year.”   When   asked
about  other  illicit   substances,  he   denied   use   or  having   tried   any  other
substances.   This  was   discrepant   as  medical  records   indicated   he   has
“tried  cocaine  and  methamphetamine  in  his 20s.”  (Tr. 39-40; GE  4, pgs. 6-
7)
In response to Department Counsel’s question asking him why he did not report
his drug use on his 2019 SF-86, Applicant stated, “I didn’t realize that I didn’t.” (Tr. 40)
He  is  aware  that  marijuana  use  is  prohibited  as  a  security  clearance  holder  and
attributes  his  past  use  of  marijuana  to  “[l]ack  of  poor  judgment  [sic].”  (Tr.  40-41)  He
claimed that he does not currently possess marijuana, nor does he intend to use it in the
future. He used marijuana in lieu of alcohol “to self-medicate to try to stop drinking, you
know.”  He  stated  that  course  of  action  did  not  work  and  that  his  marijuana  use  was
“[j]ust (in) the more recent years, . . . .” (Tr. 41)
APPLICANT’S COMMENTS
At the conclusion of questioning and before closing argument, Applicant stated:
I’d  like  to  say that I  am  guilty of everything  that’s said here. I –  I am  not a
risk for declaring  what  I do, what I’ve  seen, or  who  I’ve  seen, or anything
like   that.   I   am   willing   to   face   the   consequences   of   the   crime   I   have
committed. I’m  glad  this is finally over as  far  as getting  this off  my  chest.
It’s  been a lot of sleepless nights. And it would be curious of what it is  [sic].
(Tr. 50)
