Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in July 2017 and has three stepchildren (ages 23, 15, and 12)
and one biological child, age seven. (Item 1) She earned a high school diploma in June
2004. (Item 1) She reported no military service. (Items 2-3)
Since  June  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer  as  a
technical order librarian.  (GE 1) Previously, she worked for  other employers in various
jobs. She first received a security clearance in 2011. (Item 1)
Applicant’s finances
Records  document  that  Applicant  did  not  timely  file  her  federal  and  state  tax
returns,  as  required,  for  tax  years 2012  and  2013.  (Items  2-7) Applicant  attributed  her
tax-filing lapses and debt delinquencies to an illness incurred during pregnancy in 2015
and  a  custody  dispute  with  her  husband’s  ex-spouse.  Whether  she  ever  filed  federal
and state tax returns and paid any taxes owed for the specified years in question is not
documented by Applicant.
In  her  security  clearance  application  (e-QIP)  of  December  2020,  Applicant
disclosed her failures to file or pay or Federal and State income taxes for tax years 2013
and  2014.  (Item  3)  In  her  ensuing  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of
Personnel Management  (OPM),  she  told the investigator that  she owed  approximately
$7,000  to  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS).  (Item  5)  To  date,  she  has  failed  to
document either the filing of her delinquent federal and  state tax returns or  satisfy any
amounts owing the Federal Government for the two years in issue. Explanations of the
circumstances of her failure to file timely Federal and State tax returns for the years in
question are limited to her expressed difficulties in dealing with her finances.
Besides  her  tax-filing  lapses,  Applicant  accumulated  17  delinquent  accounts
exceeding  $6,000.  (Items  3-5)  the  individual  amounts  of  the  debts  are  relatively  small
(none exceeding $500), and most of them, according to Applicant, have been removed
from  her  credit  report.  (Items  2  and  5)  Still,  Applicant  to  date  has  not  addressed  his
delinquent debts in any tangible way or documented the reasons for their removal from
her credit report.
