Applicant  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations  in  her  answer.  Her  admissions  are
incorporated  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make
the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is 25 years old. She works for a government  contractor as  a systems
engineer.  Her  permanent  employment  began  in  August  2022,  but  previously  she
interned for the same employer while still attending college during the summer of 2021.
There  is  no  evidence  that  she  was  employed  by  this  employer  between  August  2021
and August 2022. She began college in 2017, and completed her bachelor’s degree in
May  2022.  She  completed  her  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  October  2022,
after she became a permanent employee. She is single and has no children. (Tr. at 6,
18, 47-48; GE 1-2)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  May  2017  to  June  2022.  It
further alleged she used ecstasy in December 2017; she used Adderall, not prescribed
to  her,  in  November  2020;  she  used  cocaine  in  February  2021;  and  she  used
mushrooms  from  May  2022  to  July  2022.  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  she  intended  to
use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶¶ 1a-1.f)
Applicant  fully  disclosed  her  drug  history  on  her  2022  SCA  and  she  further
explained  that  history  during  her  December  2022  background  interview.  During  her
testimony, she explained that her drug use was experimental during her college years.
She  described  herself  as  naïve  in  high  school,  not  having  many  friends,  and  did  not
engage  in  many  activities.  All  that  changed  in  college  and  she  socialized  more  with
people  and  wanted to show her friends  she was  not  afraid  to  try things.  This included
experimenting with some drugs, which she now admits was foolish behavior. (Tr. 29-31;
GE 1-2) She consistently described the extent of her drug behavior as follows:
Use  of  Marijuana: Applicant used marijuana by smoking it or ingesting edibles starting
in about May 2017. She used marijuana no more than 30 times and her last use was in
July 2022. She only purchased marijuana from state-run dispensaries. She indicated on
her SCA that she would use marijuana in the future. During her background interview,
she reversed that position and stated that she did not intend to use any illegal drugs in
the future. During her testimony, on several occasions, she categorically stated she had
no intentions to use marijuana in the future. I found her testimony sincere and credible.
(Tr. 31, 33, 36, 40, 54, 57; GE 1-2)
Use  of  Ecstasy  (MDMA): Applicant ingested one tablet of MDMA at a house party. She
did  not  feel  any  effects  from  its  use.  At  the  time  she  ingested  it,  she  thought  it  was
candy,  but was  later told it was MDMA.  That was her only use  of MDMA  and  she  does
not intend to use it in the future. I found her testimony credible. (Tr. 37; GE 1-2)
Use  of  Adderall:  Applicant admitted ingesting 20 milligrams of Adderall, a prescription
drug,  in  approximately  December  2020.  She  did  not  have  a  legal  prescription  for  the
drug when she used it. She used it while in college to help concentrate on her studies. A
friend suggested that she use it and supplied it. She has only used it that one time and
has no intention to use it illegally in the future. I found her testimony credible. (Tr. 38-40;
GE 1-2)
Use   of   Cocaine:  Applicant  used  cocaine  one  time  at  a  house  party  in  approximately
December 2021. She did not feel any effects from its use. The cocaine was supplied by
a  friend.  That  was  her  only  use  of  cocaine  and  she  does  not  intend  to  use  it  in  the
future. I found her testimony credible. (Tr. 39; GE 1-2)
Use  of  Mushrooms (Psychedelic): Applicant used mushrooms on two occasions while
camping with friends in May 2022 and July 2022. She got sick after both uses.  Those
were her only uses of mushrooms and she does not intend to use them in the future. I
found her testimony credible. (Tr. 39; GE 1-2)
Future   Use   of   Marijuana:  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  she  has  no  intent  to  use
marijuana  in  the  future.  Her  father  testified  that  she  has  matured  significantly  since
leaving college.  He also  believes her SCA answer about  using marijuana in the future
was  impacted  by  her  knowledge  that  two  of  her  grandparents  were  legally  prescribed
marijuana to manage pain as an opioid alternative. He thought that she might not have
thought about the federal law implications. He also opined that based upon his personal
familiarity with drug users, as a criminal defense attorney, he had no concerns that she
was currently using any illegal drugs. Since college, she has moved to a different state
from  where  her  college  friends  who  used  drugs  are  located.  Although  she  has  been
exposed to drugs recently (she was offered cocaine several weeks before the hearing),
she  has  always  refused  the  offers.  She  also  removes  herself  from  the  situation  and
does  not  associate  with  the  person  offering  drugs.  She  signed  a  written  statement
where she manifested her intent not to use any illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 18-19, 31,
33, 54, 57; AE A)
