In Applicant’s June 2023 SOR response, he admitted, with clarification, all of the
SOR  allegations  under  Guideline  F.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d.)  He  denied  SOR  ¶  2.c  under
Guideline J; he admitted in part and denied in part SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b; and he admitted,
with clarification, SOR ¶¶ 2.d-2.g. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. (SOR
response)
Applicant is 30 years old. He has been employed full-time for the past two years
by  a  federal  contractor  as  a  stationary  engineer.  He  earns  an  annual  base  salary  of
approximately $75,000. He currently resides with his fiancée, her four-year-old daughter,
and their three-year-old son. His fiancée does not currently work outside the home, and
they are expecting a baby  in April 2024.  This is  Applicant’s  first application for a  DOD
security clearance. (SOR response; Tr. 16-19, 26; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  cites  four  financial  allegations  based  on  one  event  that  caused  the
delinquent debt. The status of these allegations is as follows:
SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d  allege  four  delinquent  medical  accounts  that  were  placed  for
collection  in  the  total  amount  of  $3,893.  Applicant  admitted  responsibility  for  these
delinquent medical debts, but he also stated in his SOR response that he had established
a  repayment  plan  with  the  creditor.  The  circumstances  that  resulted  in  these  medical
expenses  stem  from  an  incident  in  June  2020,  when  Applicant  suffered  a  medical
emergency that required urgent medical care. He was treated at a hospital that was not
covered by his medical insurance plan. Applicant tried to get his insurance carrier to pay
for  the  medical  expenses,  but  he  was  not  successful.  Based  on  documentation  in  the
record,  he  has been making  monthly payments  of  $125 to  the  creditor since February
2022, well before the SOR was issued. Beginning in July 2022, he hired a consumer debt
relief program and has made approximately $100 monthly payments as agreed. These
debts are being resolved. (SOR response; AE A, B, K; Tr. 19-25)
Criminal Conduct
Applicant  was  arrested  in  February  2015  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence (DUI) and reckless driving. (SOR ¶ 2.a) He pleaded guilty to reckless driving
and was fined approximately $1,800. The DUI charge was dismissed with prejudice. His
driver’s license was suspended from July 2015 to December 2016, and he was granted
restrictive driving privileges from about January 2017 to February 2018. Applicant testified
that  the  court  consolidated  all  of  his  fines  for  traffic  infractions  and  provided
documentation of his current $100 monthly payment plan with the court. (SOR response;
AE C, D, M; GE 1, 5; Tr. 25-28)
SOR ¶ 2.b. alleges that Applicant was arrested in December 2017 for driving on a
suspended  or  revoked  license.  He  pled  guilty  and  was  fined  approximately  $300.
Although Applicant was granted restricted driving privileges, as noted above, he was not
aware  that  a  lien  had  been  placed  on  his  driver’s  license.  He  resolved  the  lien  and
provided proof that he currently has a valid driver’s license. (SOR response; AE M, P, Q;
Tr. 28-31)
Applicant  was  charged  in  April  2018  for  operating  a  motor  vehicle  without
insurance.  (SOR  ¶  2.c)  He  denied  this  allegation.  He  stated  that  he  had  borrowed  a
friend’s  car  and  after  being  pulled  over  by  the  police,  he  could  not  find  the  owner’s
insurance card and he was not carrying his own insurance card. He never heard anything
else about this matter, and he looked up the charge with the court, but could not find any
additional information. There is insufficient evidence in the record of this violation. (SOR
response; Tr. 31-32)
SOR ¶ 2.d. alleges that Applicant was charged with speeding in May 2018, and he
was  found  guilty  of  this  offense  and  was  fined  $257.  Applicant  stated  the  fine  was
consolidated with his other fines, and he is current on his monthly payment agreement
with the courthouse. (SOR response; Tr. 33-34; AE M)
SOR  ¶  2.e.  alleges  that  Applicant  was  charged  in  February 2019  with  failure  to
renew expired registration tags. He was found guilty and ordered to pay $280. Applicant
stated that this fine was paid in full. (SOR response; Tr. 34-35)
Applicant was charged in May 2020 for speeding, no valid operator’s license, and
operating a motor vehicle without insurance. He was found guilty of speeding, fined $124,
and the remaining two charges were dismissed. (SOR ¶ 2.f) He paid the fine in full. (SOR
response; Tr. 35-37)
SOR ¶ 2.g. alleges that Applicant was arrested in September 2021, and charged
with felony assault (domestic violence). The charge was subsequently dismissed due to
lack of evidence. Applicant stated that his fiancée had been previously diagnosed with
bipolar  disorder,  borderline  personality  disorder,  and  post-traumatic  stress  disorder
(PTSD). That evening she had been drinking, going through withdrawal from not taking
her medication, and she was depressed. She began deleting photos from her phone. She
took  Applicant’s  phone  so  she  could  delete  his  photos,  but  she  discovered  he  had
changed the passcode. She became upset and accused Applicant of being unfaithful. An
argument took place, and she pushed and punched him, while he tried to restrain her.
The police arrived and his fiancée accused Applicant of choking her.  He was arrested.
The court subsequently dismissed the charge against him due to lack of evidence. His
fiancée provided a signed, sworn statement that she had lied to police due to her unstable
mental  health  condition  at  the  time.  Applicant  and  his  fiancée  no  longer  drink  alcohol.
(SOR response; Tr. 37-42; AE G; GE 3)
Applicant  submitted  character  reference  letters.  Three  co-workers  reported  that
Applicant is a highly valued asset on the maintenance team. They describe him as honest,
reliable, and trustworthy, and endorse he be granted a DOD security clearance. (AE O)
