Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a government contractor for which he has
worked  since  May  2019.  He  has  taken  some  college  courses  but  has  not  earned  an
undergraduate degree.  He has earned a firefighter and electrical-technician  certificate.
He has never married and has no children. (GE 1, 2)
Applicant has been involved with marijuana for many years. At all times relevant
to  this  security  clearance  investigation,  marijuana  purchase  and  possession  (and
therefore its use) has been illegal. From about 2006 through April 2022, he purchased
and  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  He  began  using  marijuana  when  he  was
about  16  years  old  to  self-medicate  his  depression  and  anxiety.  The  longest  he  went
without  using  marijuana  during  this  time  was  about  six  months.  In  about  March  2006
and  March  2008,  he  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  and  pleaded  guilty  to
the  charges  both  times.  In  about  April  2019,  after  undergoing  employer-required
urinalysis testing, he tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a chemical found in
marijuana.  That  same  month,  his  employer,  Company  A,  terminated  his  employment
because  of  this  positive  urinalysis  test.  He  claimed  he  stopped  his  marijuana
involvement in April 2022 because he worked on a military base where  marijuana use
was prohibited. He asserted that he will not use marijuana in the future if it is prohibited
by  the  terms  of  his  employment,  but  otherwise  he  may  use  it  again.  (Tr.  22-26,  31;
Answer; GE 2-4)
Despite being required to do so, Applicant failed to disclose  his illegal drug use
and his April 2019 employment termination on his March 2022 Electronic Questionnaire
for Investigations Processing (SF 86). During his June 2022 security interview, he lied to
an  authorized  DOD  investigator,  telling  the  investigator  that  he  resigned  from  the
company  from  which  he  was  terminated.  Applicant  told  the  DOD  investigator  that  he
had  been  terminated  from  this  employment  only  after  the  investigator  confronted  him
with  that  information.  He  then  provided  truthful  information  concerning  his  marijuana
involvement  while  explaining  to  the  DOD  investigator  that  his  employment  termination
resulted  from  marijuana  use.  While  the  DOD  investigator  did  not  confront  him
specifically  about  his  marijuana  involvement,  Applicant  disclosed  this  marijuana
involvement  after  being  confronted  about  a  different  intentional misrepresentation.  (Tr.
26-30; Answer; GE 1-3)
In his Answer, Applicant admitted his marijuana purchase, use, criminal charges,
and  positive  urinalysis  test.  He  admitted  that  his  employment  with  Company  A  was
terminated because of his positive urinalysis test. He also admitted that he had falsified
material facts about his marijuana involvement and  employment termination on his SF
86,  and  that  he  had  lied  about  his  employment  termination  to  a  DOD  investigator.  He
admitted  that  he  certified  his  SF  86  knowing  that  he  misrepresented  material  facts  on
that  application.  He  claimed  that  he  omitted  this  information  because  he  was
embarrassed and  as a form of self-sabotage, because he did not think he would  keep
his job for very long. He has since realized that he enjoys his work and finds it fulfilling.
As  he  wants  to  keep  his  job,  he  is  now  more  interested  in  obtaining  a  security
clearance. He claimed he is not a dishonest person. He asserted that he self-sabotaged
himself by intentionally failing his urinalysis test because he hated his job with Company
A  and  thought  testing  positive  for  marijuana  would  get  him  fired.  (Tr.  16-21,  26-30;
Answer; GE 1, 2)
