In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to all allegations in the SOR.
Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  employee  of  a  DOD  contractor  who  seeks  a  security
clearance.  He  has  been  employed  with  his  current  employer  since  January  2022.  He
served  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Air  Force  from  July  2015  to  May  2021.  He
previously  held  a  security  clearance  while  on  active  duty.  He  was  separated  with  an
Under  Honorable  Conditions  (General)  discharge.  He  has  some  college  credit  but  no
degree. He is single and has no children. (Tr. 17-18, 33-35; GE 1; GE 3)
(Note: Some details were excluded to protect the privacy of Applicant and other
individuals  named  in  the  record.  Specific  information  is  available  in  the  cited  exhibits
and transcript.)
On  September  20,  2021,  Applicant  completed  an  electronic  questionnaire  for
investigations  processing  (e-QIP)  in  order  to  apply  for  a  security  clearance.  (GE  1)  A
subsequent background investigation raised the security concerns listed in the SOR.
Under  the  Guideline  H  - Drug  Involvement  security  concern,  the  SOR  alleged
Applicant:  used  the  prescription  drug  Xanax  on  or  around  June  2020,  even  though  it
was  not  prescribed  to  him.  (SOR  ¶  1.a:  Gov  2  at  5,  8);  from  about  January  2016  to
about December 2017, used cocaine with varying frequency (SOR ¶ 1.b: Gov 2 at 6-7);
and  from  about  January  2016  to  December  2016,  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency.  (SOR  ¶  1.c:  Gov  2  at  6)  All  three  allegations  allege  Applicant’s  drug  use
occurred after being granted access to classified information.
Under  the  personal  conduct  security  concern,  the  SOR  alleged:  Applicant
obstructed  justice  in  about  June  2020,  by  purposefully  removing  trash  from  the
dormitory room of an Airman who died of an accidental drug overdose with the intent to
conceal  evidence  of  his  illegal  drug  use.  (SOR  ¶  2.a:  Gov  2  at  5-6);  and  he  was
discharged  from  the  United  States  Air  Force  in  May  2021  for  misconduct:  drug  abuse
and  obstruction  of  justice,  receiving  an  Under  Honorable  Conditions  (General)
Discharge. (SOR ¶ 2.b:  Gov 2 at 4; Gov 3)
The criminal conduct concern alleged in April 2021, Applicant was convicted by
Summary Courts-Martial for violations of Article 112a, Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ),  wrongful  use  of  controlled  substances,  specifically,  Xanax,  cocaine,  and
marijuana  and  a  violation  of  Article  131b  of  the  UCMJ,  obstruction  of  justice.  He  was
sentenced  to  30  days  confinement,  reduction  to  the  rate  of  E-1,  and  issued  a  formal
written reprimand. (SOR ¶ 3.a: Gov 4)
Guideline H  - Drug  Involvement
In  November  2016,  while  Applicant  was  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Air
Force,  he  and  another  airman  went  on  leave  to  Amsterdam,  Netherlands.  Applicant
purchased  marijuana  from  a  shop  for  his  personal  use  and  smoked  the  marijuana
during  this  trip.  His  friend  did  not  use  the  marijuana  with  him.  Later  that  evening,
Applicant  was  approached  by  a  stranger  who  offered  to  sell him cocaine.  He  paid  the
stranger  70  Euros  for  cocaine  and  took  the  cocaine  back  to  his  hotel  room  where  he
used the cocaine by himself. He was drunk when he purchased the cocaine. (Tr. 19-21;
GE 2 at 7; GE 5 at 14)
In  July 2017, Applicant traveled  to  Spain with  three  friends who  were also in the
Air  Force.  When  they  were  at  the  airport,  someone  offered  to  give  them  a  ride  to  their
hotel.   During   the   ride,   Applicant  was offered   cocaine.  He purchased   some   cocaine   for
70 Euros. He used the cocaine  by himself in  his hotel room. (Tr. 19-20; GE 1; GE 2 at 7-
8; GE 5  at 14)
On  May  31,  2020,  Applicant  and  Airman  X  used  illegally  purchased  Xanax
together. Amn X offered him a Xanax pill and he took one. This is the only time he used
Xanax.  He  did  not  have  a  prescription  for  Xanax.  He  was  drinking  at  the  time  and
considers it a poor judgment call. (Tr. 20-21; GE 2 at 5-6, 8; GE 5 at 4, 14-15)
Applicant admits he was on active duty in the Air Force when he used the above
illegal drugs. He admits to holding a security clearance while serving on active duty  in
the Air Force. He admits he served in national security sensitive position while on active
duty  in  the  Air  Force  and  that  his  illegal  drug  use  described  above  occurred  while  he
held a security clearance and served in a national security sensitive position. (Tr. 19-21)
Applicant testified that the last time he used illegal drugs was on May 31, 2020.
(Tr. 20-21, 35)  He listed his illegal drug use on his e-QIP application dated September
20,  2021,  in  response  to  Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity.  He  also
listed  he  used  marijuana  on  approximately  ten  occasions  during  high  school  and
discussed  his  high  school  marijuana  use  during  his  December  2021  background
investigation interview. (GE 1 at 35-38; GE 2 at 7-8)
Applicant  never  attended  drug  counseling  or  treatment.  He  has  never  been
diagnosed  as  being  dependent  on  drugs.  He  has  no  future  intentions  of  using  illegal
drugs. (GE 2 at 8) He did not offer a signed, sworn statement of intent to abstain from
all drug involvement and substance misuse,  acknowledging that any future involvement
or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.
Personal Conduct
On June 2, 2020, around 11:30 pm Applicant went to Amn X’s dorm room. When
he arrived, he observed Amn X sitting in a recliner with several lines of a white powdery
substance on his iPad.  Amn X used his CAC card to cut the powdery substance. Amn
X  then  sniffed  several  lines  of  the  white  powdery  substance.  Applicant  claims  he
confronted Amn X saying: “Are you serious right now, you told me you were done with
that.” Amn X replied, “I‘m going to finish it up.” They started watching a television show.
Amn  X  fell  asleep  and  began  snoring.  Approximately  20  minutes  later,  he  began  to
wheeze  loudly  and  sounded  like  he  could  not  breathe.  Applicant  approached  him  and
attempted  to  wake  him  by  tapping  his  chest  and  smacking  his  face.  At  one  point,  he
rubbed an ice cube on Amn X’s face. He still did not wake up. Applicant saw Amn X’s
lips turn blue, purple and black. He placed his fingers on Amn X’s neck and noticed that
his  heart  was  racing  and  foam  began  to  come  out  of  his mouth.  Applicant  considered
calling 911 or his mother, but panicked and chose to leave. (Tr. 25-32; GE 5 at 4, 14-16)
Before  Applicant  left,  he  noticed  Amn  X’s  iPad  had  a  line  of  the  white  powdery
substance on it and Amn X’s CAC card was near the iPad. He picked up the iPad and
dumped  the  white  powdery  substance  into  a  sink  and  washed  it  down  the  drain.  He
wiped  the  iPad  and  the  CAC  card  with  a  towel  in  order to  remove  his fingerprints.  He
also  removed  his  garbage  from  the  room  to  include  a  water  bottle  and  tobacco  in  an
attempt  to  eliminate  his  presence  in  Amn  X’s  room.  He  left  and  drove  home.  While
driving home, he called Amn X and left a message stating that he had fallen asleep and
to call him. He later deleted all content form his phone before the OSI confiscated it. (Tr.
21; GE 5 at  16)
The next day, June 3, 2020, Applicant attempted to call Amn X around 1130. He
did not answer his phone. Applicant felt terrible because he did not help Amn X when he
overdosed. He was selfish and was scared he could get into trouble for letting Amn X
use narcotics. Applicant called another friend, Amn Z, who went to check on Amn X. He
saw  that  Amn  X  was  sitting  still  in  his  recliner  in  the  window  and  looked  pale.  He
contacted his chain of command. They obtained a master key and went into Amm X’ s
room. They discovered Amn X sitting on his recliner. He was deceased. (GE 5 at 16)
Later that day, special agents from the Air Force Office of Special Investigations
(AFOSI)  interviewed  Applicant  about  Amn  X.  They  were  told  during  their  initial
investigation  that  Applicant  and  Amn  X  were  good  friends  and  co-workers.  Applicant
was initially evasive during the interview. He mentioned that he went to Amn X’s  room
the  evening  of  June  2,  2020.  Amn  X  appeared  fine.  They  were  watching  a  television
show.  Amn  X  fell  asleep  and  then  Applicant  went  home.  The  next  day  he  tried  to  call
Amn X and he would not answer. He called his friend Amn Z and asked him to check on
Amn  X.  Amn  Z  observed  Amn  X  through  the  window  and  observed  that  he  appeared
dead. (AE 5 at 13)
Applicant  told  AFOSI  that  he  usually  communicated  with  Amn  X  via  text
messages,  but  would  not  consent  to  AFOSI’s  request  to  search  his  cell  phone.  After
being  confronted  about  the  importance  of  getting  detailed  information  about  Amn  X’s
death  for  his  family.  Applicant  admitted  he  and  deceased  used  illegally  purchased
Xanax together on  May  31,  2020.  Applicant was  then  read his rights  under Article  31,
UCMJ.  He  waived  his  right  to  legal  counsel  and  elected  to  answer  questions.  He
admitted to his illegal purchase and use of marijuana and cocaine while on active duty
in the military and provided the full details of what occurred on the night of June 2, 2020.
(GE 5 at 14-16)
A search of the Amn X’s iPhone revealed texts from Applicant. On June 3, 2020,
Applicant  was  escorted  by  AFOSI  to  have  his  blood  and  urine  tested  pursuant  to  a
search  warrant.  While  driving  to  the  hospital,  Applicant  stated,  “I  watched  [Amn  X]
overdose  and  I  ran  away  like  a  coward.”  An  autopsy  was  performed  on  Amn  X.  His
cause  of  death  was  accidental  mixed  drug  intoxication.  He  had  cocaine,  fentanyl  and
Xanax  in  his body  at  the  time  of his  death.  (GE  2  at  6;  GE  5 at  46)  Applicant’s  urine
tested negative for illegal drugs. (GE 5 at 42)
The SOR also alleged Applicant was discharged in May 2021  from the  U.S. Air
Force  with  a  discharge  characterized  as  General  Discharge  (Under  Honorable
Conditions)  for  misconduct  involving  drug  abuse  and  obstruction  of  justice.  The  SOR
allegation  cross  –  referenced  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  -1c,  and  2.a.  Applicant’s  DD  Form  214
for  Misconduct  –  Drug  Abuse.  The  discharge
indicated  he  was  discharged
characterization was Under Honorable Conditions – (General).(Tr. 33-34; GE 2 at 5; GE
3)
Criminal Conduct
On  April  13,  2021,  Applicant  pled  and  was  found  guilty  by  Summary  Courts-
Martial  of  the  following  criminal  offenses  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice
(UCMJ)  Charge  1:  Violation  of  Article  112a,  wrongfully  using  controlled  substances
including  cocaine,  and  marijuana  on  divers  occasions  between  January  1,  2016,  to
December 31, 2017;  and  wrongful use of alprazolam  (Xanax), a Schedule  IV  drug, on
May  31,  2021.  Charge  II:  violation  of  UCMJ,  Article  131b:  on  or  about  June  3,  2020,
Applicant  removed  trash  from  [Amn  X’s] dormitory  room  with the  intent  to  obstruct  the
due  administration  of  justice  in  his  case  because  he  believed  criminal  charges  were
pending against him. He was sentenced to 30 days confinement, reduction to the grade
of Airman Basic and a reprimand. (Tr. 18-21; GE 4)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  states  that  he  was  honest,  truthful  and
cooperative when interviewed by special agents. He owned up to his mistakes. He was
released five days early from confinement for good behavior. He says his integrity and
core values are still intact. He would just like to put this behind him and “overcome the
weight that’s been on my back for 2 years now.” His supervisors can attest to his work
ethic  and  honesty.  He  is  responsible  for  his  past  mistakes  and  states  they  will  never
happen  again.  He  has  been  through  trials  and  tribulations  and  has  made  it  out  alive.
(Answer to SOR)
Whole-Person  Factors
Master  Sergeant  S.L.  prepared  a  character  statement  of  behalf  of  Applicant  in
April 2021.  He first met Applicant in 2017, when he was assigned to his unit. Applicant
was ahead of his peer group. He describes Applicant as the hardest working airman in
the  flight.  He  won  a  monthly  performance  award  ten  times  in  a  row.  He  describes  his
performance  as  great.  He  is  aware  of  the  charges  against  Applicant.  He  believes  he
should be given the most leniency possible. He believes he will learn from this and will
continue  his  great  work  performance  and  has  a  lot  of  potential  for  rehabilitation  to
become a productive member of society. (AE B at 2)
Mr.  S.,  the  Operations  Supervisor,  where  Applicant  currently  works  describes
Applicant  as  “hard-working,  dedicated  and  well-mannered.”  He  is  a  role-model  and
team-player.  He  has  relied  on  him  to  be  the  driving  force  to  motivate  the  crew  to
accomplish their daily goals. (AE B at 3)
Another current supervisor, Mr. S2, states Applicant has an amazing work ethic
and dedication to doing his best. He is a model employee and team leader. He is willing
to help others with their tasks as well completing his own. He describes Applicant as “a
respected, genuine and honest person who puts others before himself.” (AE B at 4)
Since  his  discharge  from  active  duty,  Applicant  has  been  able  to  purchase  a
house and a new car. (AE C).  On February 20, 2023, he took a drug test. The drug test
was negative for illegal substances. (AE D)
