In her SOR answer, Applicant admitted some of the allegations and denied others.
Her admissions are adopted as findings of fact. I make the following additional findings of
fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old employee of a federal contractor. She has worked for
her current employer for two years as a supply technician. She served in the U.S. Army
from 2011-2020. She was honorably discharged. She received a disability rating of 60
percent from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and receives a monthly disability
benefit  of  approximately  $1,200.  She  is  a  high  school  graduate  who  has  taken  some
college courses. She has been married and divorced twice. She has no children. (Tr. 6,
25, 31-32; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  F,  10  delinquent  accounts  (consumer  debts,
bank loans, a car loan, a utility debt) totaling approximately $30,000. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.j)
The  debts  are  established  by  credit  reports  from  December  2021  and  May  2023;  her
January 2022 background interview; her admissions to interrogatories in June 2022; and
her admissions in her SOR answer. The SOR also alleged that she failed to file her 2020
federal income tax return, and that in July 2017, while still in the Army,  she forged her
commander’s name on a form, for which she was punished under the Uniform Code of
Military Justice (UCMJ), Article 15. (SOR ¶¶ 1.k – 1.l) (GE 2-3, 5-6; SOR answer)
The SOR alleged under Guideline E, the forgery allegation stated above; a UCMJ
punishment under Article 15 in 2019 for absence without leave (AWOL); and a civilian-
jurisdiction arrest in March 2020 for burglary of a habitation, assault causing bodily injury,
and interference with an emergency request for assistance. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a – 2.c)
Financial Considerations.
Applicant attributed her financial problems to several contributing factors. During
her second marriage, after she decided to divorce, she took out personal loans to pay for
her  living  expenses.  She  became  indebted  and  did  not  have  the  resources  to  pay  the
loans. Before the divorce, she had to support her  spouse who was not employed. She
hired two different credit restoration services to help increase her credit score. Neither
obtained satisfactory results, so she discontinued using them. She also was not financially
sophisticated.  She  believed  that  she  was  no  longer  responsible  for  debts  that  were
charged off. Approximately six months ago, she retained a personal financial counselor
who  helped  her  develop  a  payment  strategy  for  her  debts.  Her  current  gross  monthly
income is approximately $5,000. So far, she has managed to pay one of the SOR debts,
as noted below. (Tr. 30-25; AE B)
The status of the SOR debts is as follows:
SOR  ¶   1.a-$5,221.   This  is  a  charged-off  loan  Applicant  incurred  during  the
pendency of her second divorce. The balance date of the debt is December 2021. She
admitted making no payments. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 43-44; GE 5)
SOR ¶  1.b-$3,211.  This is a loan in collection that Applicant incurred during the
pendency of her second divorce. The balance date of the debt is December 2021. She
admitted making no payments. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 44; GE 5)
SOR ¶  1.c-$1,003.  This is a delinquent utility debt. Applicant fell behind making
payments and then moved away from that location and never paid the debt. This debt is
unresolved. (Tr. 46; GE 3, 5)
SOR ¶  1.d-$221. Applicant documented payment for this debt in October 2023.
This debt is resolved. (Tr. 36, 39, 46-47; AE A)
SOR ¶  1.e-$198. This is a consumer debt. Applicant used this company to fund an
airplane  ticket.  This  account  was  charged  off.  She  testified  that  she  would  make  this
account her next priority and pay it. She failed to submit proof any payment. This debt is
not resolved. (Tr. 47-48; GE 5)
SOR ¶  1.f-$13,716.  This is a charged-off car loan. Applicant claimed she bought
this car for her ex-spouse, but stopped making payments when they separated. She has
not made any further payments. This debt has a balance date of August 2021. This debt
is not resolved. (Tr. 48-49; GE 5)
SOR ¶  1.g-$3,129.  This is a debt from a property management company. Applicant
believed the company was seeking back rent that she did not owe. She claims that she
paid the amount that she owed by taking out a loan to do so. She failed to submit proof
of any payment. This account was placed in collection. She disputed the debt, but she
failed to document the basis of the dispute. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 44-45; GE 3, 5)
SOR ¶  1.h-$495. This is a credit union debt. Applicant does not recall this debt
and  denied  having  an  account  at  this  credit  union.  She  did  not  submit  documentation
supporting her dispute. This debt was charged off. The last payment date was in August
2016. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 49-50; GE 5)
SOR ¶  1.i-$489. This is a delinquent credit card. Applicant opened this account in
September 2021. This account was charged off. She provided documentation showing
she  established  a  payment  plan  with  the  creditor.  She  failed  to  submit  proof  of  any
payment under the plan. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 51; GE 6; AE C)
SOR ¶  1.j-$478. This is a delinquent consumer debt. Applicant denied this debt. It
appears on her latest credit report with a first delinquency date of May 2021. She failed
to submit proof of any payment or documentation to support her dispute. This debt is not
resolved. (Tr. 52; GE 6)
2020  Federal  Tax  Return.  Applicant admitted, during her background interview,
that  she  failed  to  timely  file  her  2020  federal  income  tax  return.  During  her  hearing
testimony, she averred that she had filed this return sometime thereafter. She failed to
document filing of this return. This issue is unresolved. (Tr. 58; GE 3)
July   2017   Forgery   of  Commander’s   Name.  Applicant  admitted  that  in  2017,
while in the Army, she went to an Army relief organization on post, seeking a loan to help
pay her debts. She received an application from the organization and completed it. The
application needed signatures from either her commander or her first sergeant.  Neither
were available the day Applicant sought the loan. She forged her company commander’s
signature  on  the  application  form  and  submitted  it.  Because  she  entered  the  incorrect
email  address  for  her  commander  on  the  form,  the  fraudulent  nature  of  the  form  was
discovered.  She  then  faced  an  Article  15  UCMJ  proceeding  before  her  battalion
commander.  She  was  found  guilty  of  forgery  and  was  punished  with  a  one-grade
reduction in rank and 60 days of extra duties. (Tr. 62-63; GE 3)
Personal Conduct
The  factual  circumstances  of  the  forgery  allegation  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  are  described
above. In 2019, Applicant was in the Army and placed on “quarters duty” by a physician.
This  is  a  designation  of  a  soldier’s  place  of  duty  at  their  home  because  of  medical
circumstances. While in this designation, Applicant decided to fly to her home state to see
her family. She did not seek authorization from her command to travel. After about seven
days, she was contacted by her unit and told to report to her regular duty location the next
day.  She  told  the  contacting  person  that  she  could  not  do  that  because  she  was  in  a
different state. When she returned to her unit, she faced Article 15, UCMJ proceedings
from her commander. She was found guilty of being absent without leave (AWOL) and
reduced in rank one grade. (Tr. 64-65; GE 3)
In March 2020, Applicant was arrested and charged with burglary of a habitation,
assault causing bodily harm, and interference with an emergency request for assistance.
The underlying factual circumstances were that Applicant was with a friend who went to
a  hotel  where  her  friend’s  father  was  staying  with  his  girlfriend.  A  dispute  over money
arose  and  all  parties  engaged  in  a  mutual  affray.  Applicant  admitted  stepping  on  the
girlfriend’s  cell  phone  and  breaking  it.  Eventually,  all  charges  were  dropped  against
Applicant. (Tr. 72-75; GE 3-4)
