Applicant, age 43, is divorced and has two adult children. (Item 3 at pages 5, 19~20
and  23~24.)  She  attributes  her  current  financial  difficulties  to  her  divorce.  Applicant
worked  as  many  as  “3  jobs  at  the  same,”  but  had  no  medical  insurance  to  cover
unexpected emergencies. (Answer at page 1.)
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
1.a. Applicant admits that in March of 2016 she filed for the protection of a Chapter
7 bankruptcy, and that debts were discharged in July of 2016. (Item 8.)
1.b. Applicant  admits that  she  has  a  past-due  medical  debt  to  Creditor B  in  the
amount of about $7,704. She has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation
is found against Applicant.
1.c,  1.e, 1.f, 1.h. and  1.i. Applicant admits that she has a past-due medical debts
to Creditor C in an amount totaling about $3,885. She has submitted nothing further in
this regard. These allegations are found against Applicant.
1.d.   Applicant admits that  she has a past-due medical debt to  Creditor D in the
amount of about $705. She has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation
is found against Applicant.
1.g. Applicant admits that she has a past-due medical debt to Creditor G in the
amount of about $648. She has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation
is found against Applicant.
1.j. Applicant denies that she has a past-due motor vehicle debt to Creditor J in the
amount of about $8,257. She has submitted documentation from the creditor showing it
is “settled in full.” (Response at pages 8~9.) This allegation is found for Applicant.
1.k.   and   1.l.  Applicant  denies  that  she  has  past-due  debts  to  Creditor  K  in  an
amount totaling about $323. She has submitted documentation from the creditor showing
“this account was satisfied.” (Response at pages 3~4.) These  allegations are found for
Applicant.
1.m.  and   1.n.  Applicant  denies  that  she  has past-due  debts to  Creditor M in  an
amount totaling about $195. She has submitted documentation from the creditor showing
it is “satisfied.” (Response at pages 5~6.) These allegations are found for Applicant.
1.o. Applicant denies that she has a past-due debt to Creditor O in the amount of
about  $81.  She  has  submitted  documentation  from  the  creditor  showing  it  “has  been
resolved.” (Response at page 7.) This allegation is found for Applicant.
Guideline  G  - Alcohol Consumption
2.a. Applicant admits that in April of 2019, almost five years ago, she was arrested
for Driving Under the Influence of alcohol (DUI). She also failed a field sobriety test.
