Applicant is a 44-year-old, married man with one child, age 11. He was born and
raised in Lebanon. In 1996, during his senior year in high school, he immigrated to the
United States. After graduating from high school, he enrolled in a U.S. college and earned
a degree in business administration. (Tr. 17) He has been a naturalized U.S. citizen since
2002. (AE A) Currently, he works for a defense contractor, stationed overseas as a linguist
and cultural advisor. (Tr. 16) He has worked in this field for more than 15 years and has
held a security clearance since 2006. (Tr. 32; GE 1 at 8)
Throughout  Applicant’s  career,  he  has  been  highly  respected  by  his  peers  and
supervisors.  The  director  of  operations,  an  upper-level  supervisor  at  his  current
employment described his work performance as “phenomenal.” (AE L at 1) According to
Applicant’s direct supervisor, he is an “inspiring leader for the team [whose] knowledge and
understanding of cultural, ethnic, geopolitical and language skills assisted the military in
strengthening the safety and security of the deployed troops in the region.” (AE D at 3)
Moreover,  per  his  supervisor,  he  “has  proven  to  be especially  essential  at an  ongoing
series of classified regional, strategic conferences.” (AE D) Applicant is particularly skilled
at working under pressure, functioning at an extraordinarily high level during a period when
the operational tempo of the unit that he supported was at a record level. (AE D at 5)
During the course of Applicant’s career as a translator, he has worked in combat
zones escorting troops on various missions. Like the troops, he occasionally came under
fire and has had to discharge his firearm in firefights on a couple of occasions. (Tr. 34) An
intensely patriotic man, Applicant has a tattoo of an American flag on his arm. (Tr. 32)
Applicant’s wife is a citizen of Poland. (AE 1 at 27) She lives in Poland with their
daughter, a dual citizen of Poland and the United States. (Tr. 41) Applicant last saw them in
June 2022. They communicate primarily by apps approximately once per week. (Tr. 43)
Applicant  and  his  wife  are  currently  separated  but  are  “trying  to  work  it  out.”  (Tr.  39)
Applicant owns no property in Poland. (Tr. 41)
Applicant’s parents are dual citizens of Lebanon and the United States. Both parents
moved to the United States in 1992. His father obtained U.S. citizenship in 2007 and his
mother  obtained  permanent  resident  status  in  1992.  Applicant’s  mother  returned  to
Lebanon  in  2002  and  his  father  returned  to  Lebanon  in  2009.  (Tr.  49)  Both  returned
because as they aged, they began to experience more health problems, and the health
insurance is less expensive in Lebanon than the United States. (Answer at 2) Applicant
talks  to  his  mother  approximately  three  times  per  week  and  he  talks  to  his  father
approximately three to four times per year. He communicates with both parents through
WhatsApp, an internet chat application. (Answer at 1) Applicant provides his parents with
$200 per month of financial support. (Tr. 38)
Applicant has three older brothers who are citizens of Lebanon. (Tr. 29) All of them
are naturalized U.S. citizens and two of them live in the United States. (Tr. 47) He is not
close to them because they are much older than him. (Tr. 47)
The oldest of the two brothers who lives in the United States immigrated here more
than  40  years ago when Applicant was  an  infant.  Tr.  36;  GE 1 at 37) They  last  spoke
approximately ten years ago. (Tr. 36)
The younger of the two brothers living in the U.S. became a naturalized U.S. citizen
approximately18 years ago (Tr. 47) Applicant last saw him in July 2023. (Tr. 37) He does
not keep in touch with him. (Tr. 37)
Applicant’s third brother, the oldest, age 68, is a dual citizen of Lebanon and the
United States. He lives in Lebanon and splits his time between Lebanon and the United
States. (Tr. 31)  He is a retired brigadier general in the Lebanese army. (Tr. 48) He receives
a pension. (Tr. 34-35) Applicant does not keep in touch with him regularly. (Tr. 37) He last
saw him in July 2023 when he traveled to Lebanon to visit his parents. (Tr. 37)  Applicant’s
niece,  the  daughter  of  his  brother  the  retired  brigadier  general,  is  a  U.S.  citizen  and
resident. She works for the U.S. government and has a public trust position. (Tr. 32; AE Q)
Applicant’s two sisters  are citizens  and residents of Lebanon. (Answer at 2)  Like his
brothers,  they  are  much  older  than  him  and  are  not  close.  Their  contact  is   limited  too
sharing messages and greetings on birthdays  and holidays through  WhatsApp. (Answer at
3)  He sometimes sees  them when he t  ravels to Lebanon to  visit  his parents. The  last time
they  got together was in July  2023.  (Tr. 30)  Neither of  his sisters  works for the Lebanese
government. (Tr. 30)
All of Applicant’s bank accounts  are based in the United  States.  (Tr. 44)  He is not a
homeowner. (Tr. 44)  He  has been living  on a military  base abroad  since 2020. (GE  1 at  10-
11)
Poland “is a stalwart ally in Central Europe and one of the United States’ strongest
partners in fostering security and prosperity regionally, throughout Europe, and the world.”
(AE C at 1) Lebanon is a parliamentary republic which apportions governmental authority
among a Christian president, a Shia Muslim speaker of the Chambers of Deputies and a
Sunni prime minister. Violent extremist  groups,  including  U.S. government-designated,
foreign terrorist organizations such as Hizballah and ISIS train and operate in Lebanon, and
have a particularly strong presence in southern Lebanon and south Beirut. (HE IV at 145)
Hizballah  continues  to  develop  its  global  terrorist  capabilities  as  a  complement  to  the
group’s growing conventional military capabilities and seeks to reduce U.S. influence in
Lebanon and the broader Middle East and maintains the capability to target U.S. people
and interests in the region. (HE V at 31-33)
