In  her  answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  ¶¶  1.a-1.d,  and  denied  ¶¶  1.e  and
2.a  with  explanations. Her admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings of  fact. After a
thorough  and  careful review of the  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  34   years  old.   She   was  born  and   raised   in  Pakistan   and   completed
some  college  courses.  In  2007, through  her family’s arrangement,  she  met and  married
her  husband,   a   dual  Pakistan   and   American   citizen   residing   in   the   United   States.   In
2009, based  on  her husband’s visa petition, she  entered  the  United  States. In  January
2018,  she   naturalized   as  a   U.S.  citizen.   Applicant  and   her husband   have   two   children
who are seven and  nine  years old  and  are U.S. citizens. (GX 1-2; Tr. 20-23)
From about September 2009 through August 2019, Applicant was a homemaker.
In  September  2019,  she  obtained  employment  as  a  software  tester.  She  has  been
employed  full-time  with  her  sponsoring  employer  as  an  automation  testing  engineer
since  September  2021.  She  has  not  previously  held  a  security  clearance.  (GX  1-2;
AX N; Tr. 8)
Applicant’s husband  works as a software engineer. He emigrated from Pakistan
to  the  United  States  when  he  was  16  years  old.  Applicant’s  father-in-law,  now
deceased, previously worked for the U.S. Embassy in Pakistan and brought his family to
the  United  States  in  his  retirement.  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  lives  part-time  with
Applicant’s family. (GX 1-2; Tr. 20-21, 73, 103-104)
Applicant is the oldest of four sisters. One of her sisters is a citizen and resident
of  the  United  States.  This  sister  is  married,  has  one  child  and  lives  within  driving
distance of Applicant. Her other two sisters remain in Pakistan. (See discussion below)
(GX 1-2; Tr. 72-73)
The  SOR  alleges  various  foreign  influence  concerns  under  Guideline  B  and
foreign  preference  concerns  under  Guideline  C.  The  evidence  pertaining  to  the
allegations is summarized below.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b  allege security concerns relating to  Applicant’s mother and
father  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  Applicant  detailed  that  her  mother
previously worked as a tailor and her father previously worked as a chef.  Both are now
retired. Applicant last saw them in person in 2020 when she traveled to Pakistan  for a
month  to  help  care  for  her  mother  who  was  receiving  cancer  treatment.  Her  mother’s
condition improved, but she continues to take medication. Applicant communicates with
her mother  and  father several times  per week.  She  provided  about  $5,000  in  financial
support to them in 2003. (GX 1-2; AX H-I; Tr. 25, 28-37, 65-66)
In  about  May  2021,  Applicant  petitioned  for  her  parents  to  receive  immigrant
visas  to  the  Unites  States.  They  have  never  visited  the  United  States.  However,
Applicant testified that, since both of her sisters in Pakistan are now married and living
with their new respective families, she was intending to assume the care of her parents
in their elderly years. Also, by bringing her parents  to the United States, she would no
longer have a need to travel to Pakistan. As of the date of the hearing, the immigration
petitions for her parents had been approved. However, her parents were still required to
participate in visa interviews. Applicant was hopeful that her parents would complete the
immigration process and move to the United States sometime in 2024. (GX 2; AX D-F,
R; Tr. 27, 70-80)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  security  concerns  relating  to  Applicant’s  two  sisters  who  are
citizens and residents of Pakistan. They both are married, with one wedding occurring in
2023. Neither they nor their husbands work for the Pakistani government. Applicant did
not  travel  to  Pakistan  to  attend  the  ceremony  because  she  was  concerned  it  would
impact  her  security  application.  Instead,  Applicant  estimated  that  she  provided  about
$2,000 to $3,000 in gifts. She does not regularly provide financial support to her sisters.
She communicates with her sisters every few weeks. (GX 1-2; AX J-K; Tr. 25-26, 37-46,
66-67)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges security concerns relating to Applicant’s uncle who is a citizen
and  resident  of  Pakistan  and  previously  worked  as  a  clerk  for  a  Pakistan  government
council.  He  is  now  retired.  During  her  background  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  she
was  aware  that  her  uncle  worked  in  the  public  sector,  but  could  not  provide  any
additional information. She then asked her parents for details and learned that her uncle
worked  in  a  science  and  technology  field.  Neither  Applicant  nor  her  parents  have  a
close  relationship  or  maintain  regular  communications  with  her  uncle.  (GX  2;  AX  L;
Tr. 46-51)
SOR  ¶¶  1.e  and  2.a  allege  foreign  influence  and  foreign  preference  security
concerns  arising  from  statements  Applicant  made  during  her  November  2019
background  interview.  During  the  interview,  Applicant  was  asked  several  questions
regarding  her  Pakistani  citizenship  and  loyalties  to  Pakistan  compared  to  the  United
States.  In  response  to  questioning,  Applicant  stated  that  she  would  rather give  up  her
job  than  give  up  her  Pakistani  citizenship.  She  further  described  having  loyalty  to  the
United  States  and  to  her  family,  but  stated  she  would  not  participate  in  actions  that
negatively  impacted  Pakistan.  In  an  October  2022  interrogatory  response,  Applicant
indicated that the interview summary was accurate. She did not provide any clarification
of her interview statements at that time. (GX 2)
Applicant  testified  that  during  the  background  interview,  she  was  still  struggling
with English language proficiency. She claimed that she misunderstood the meaning of
some of the questions that were asked during her interview. She clarified that she was
willing to renounce her Pakistani citizenship if necessary and that she was  loyal to the
United  States.  She  acknowledged  that  her  work  would  be  to  the  benefit  of  the  United
States over other countries including Pakistan. (AX G; Tr. 22-24, 52-59, 71)
Applicant  currently  earns  about  $120,000  annually.  A  recent  employment
evaluation  noted  that  she  performed  above  expectations  and  maintained  compliance
with  all  of  her  employer’s  policies  and  procedures.  She  and  her  husband  own  their
home  and  they  do  not  have  any  investments  in  Pakistan.  She  testified  that  she  is
committed to raising her family in the United States. (AX M-N, S; Tr. 58-61, 72, 82, 107)
Multiple  individuals  testified  about  Applicant’s  strong  commitment  to  her  family,
work  and  community.  Her  husband  testified  that  over  the  years  she  has  worked  to
increase  her  language  capacity  and  is  a  responsible  citizen  of  the  United  States.
(AX O-P; Tr. 87-91, 100-102, 112-113)
The  Islamic Republic  of Pakistan
The  separation  in  1947  of  British  India  into  the  Muslim  state  of  Pakistan  (with
West and East sections) and largely Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved; India
and  Pakistan  fought  two  wars  and  a  limited  conflict  (in  1947-48,  1965,  and  1999
respectively) over the disputed Kashmir territory. A third war between these countries in
1971 - in which India assisted an indigenous movement reacting to the marginalization
of  Bengalis  in  Pakistani  politics  - resulted  in  East  Pakistan  becoming  the  separate
nation of Bangladesh.
The  Department  of  State  travel  advisory  for  Pakistan  is  Level  3:  Reconsider
Travel  due  to  Terrorism.  Terrorism  and  ongoing  violence  by  extremist  elements  have
led  to  indiscriminate  attacks  on  civilians,  as  well  as  local  military  and  police  targets.
Significant  human  rights  issues  remain  in  Pakistan  including  unlawful  or  arbitrary
killings;  forced  disappearance  by  the  government  or  its  agents;  torture  and  cases  of
cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by the government or its agents,
as well as serious restrictions on free expression and media. Additionally, there is a lack
of  government  accountability,  and  abuses,  including  corruption  and  misconduct  by
security  services,  often  went  unpunished,  fostering  a  culture  of  impunity  among
perpetrators.
