Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations, with some explanations concerning the
drug use allegations. Her admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 24 years old. In May 2021, she graduated from college with a degree
in mechanical engineering. She is single, never married, and has no children. (Tr. 20, 41;
GE 1-3)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency, from about February 2021 through about March 2021 (SOR ¶ 1.a); and that
she  used  marijuana  in  about  July  2021,  after  being  granted  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information. (SOR ¶ 1.b).
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  gave  false
information on her March 2021 security clearance application (SCA) when she failed to
disclose her illegal drug use as stated in SOR ¶¶1.a-1.b above (SOR ¶ 2.a); and that she
gave  false  information  during  her  June  16,  2021  and  July  27,  2021,  background
interviews, when she initially denied any use of illegal drugs. After being confronted with
information  about  her  marijuana  use,  she  admitted  it  as  described  in  SOR  ¶¶1.a-1.b
above. (SOR ¶ 2.b)
Applicant began working for her current employer, a  DOD contractor, in her full-
time  position  in  August  2021.  She  had  previously  worked  as  a  summer  intern  for  this
same employer from June to August 2020, the summer between her junior and senior
years of college. She completed an SCA for the internship in February 2020 (GE 1) and
was granted a security clearance in late July 2020, shortly before her internship ended.
She  also  signed  a  classified  nondisclosure  agreement  in  June  2020  (GE  4).  After  her
summer internship ended, she was asked to stay on with her employer through her last
year  of  school  as  a  part-time  intern.  All  the  work  she  performed  during  her  summer
internship and her part-time internship involved unclassified material. She agreed to take
the part-time position and worked in this capacity from August 2020 to June 2021. She
stopped working in July 2021 to have some time off before her full-time position started
in August 2021. (Tr. 18-19, 31, 34; GE1-2)
In  March  2021,  Applicant  completed  a  second  SCA.  In  Section  23  of  the  SCA
covering past drug use  or activity, Applicant answered  “No” to  the question  asking  if in
the past seven years, she had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances. She also
answered “No” to the question asking if she had ever used illegal drugs while possessing
a security clearance. (GE 2)
On June 16, 2021, Applicant was telephonically interviewed by an investigator as
part of her background check. She was asked about prior drug use and she answered
that she had no involvement with any illegal drugs, including marijuana, in her past. (GE
3)
On July 27, 2021, Applicant was reinterviewed telephonically by the investigator
about her drug activity. She was asked if within the past seven years she had used any
illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances  and  she  responded,  “No.”  The  investigator  then
confronted  Applicant  with  information  developed  during  the  investigation  that  she  had
used marijuana edibles early in 2021. Applicant acknowledged that use and explained it
by saying she had blocked that time from her mind. She further explained that she went
through a breakup with her boyfriend and was home alone and upset. She decided to
ingest  several  marijuana  gummies  (2-4)  that  her  former  boyfriend  had  given  her.  She
went on to explain that earlier in her relationship with the former boyfriend, which started
in February 2021, she smoked marijuana with him one time. She also ate a marijuana
gummy on one other occasion. Her relationship with her former boyfriend ended in March
2023. Applicant claimed the reason she did not disclose this information when she was
first interviewed was because she was nervous about the questions and just blurted out
“No.” (GE 3)
The  investigator  asked  Applicant  about  any  other  drug  involvement  and  she
admitted  going  on  a  picnic  with  friends  in  early  July  2021,  where  she  ate  a  marijuana
edible offered by her friend. She acknowledged this use was after her initial interview with
the investigator on June 16, 2021. (GE 3)
On July 29, 2021, Applicant called the investigator to relay additional details about
her marijuana use. She  smoked marijuana about four times with her former boyfriend.
She ate edible forms of marijuana on two occasions. After her breakup with her boyfriend,
she consumed four edibles. All this marijuana use occurred in February and March 2021.
Applicant further described her claimed last use of marijuana with her friends in early July
2021.  She  also  told  the  investigator  that  she  initially  failed  to  disclose  this  information
because she “felt on the spot” and she feared losing her job. (GE 3)
Applicant’s  hearing  testimony  was  consistent  with  her  later  admissions  of
marijuana use in February, March, and July 2021, as described above. She claimed her
last use of Marijuana was in July 2021. She also claimed she no longer associates with
people who use drugs. She stated she had no intentions to use marijuana in the future.
She further stated that she failed to disclose this information because she was scared of
losing  her  job  and  she  did  not  want  to  disappoint  her  parents.  On  cross  examination,
Applicant admitted that, as early as her first summer internship, she knew marijuana use
was  prohibited  by  her  employer’s  drug  policy.  She  had  to  take  a  drug  test  before  she
started that internship. (Tr. 21-24, 26-28, 30, 33; GE 5)
Applicant testified that she has matured since she began her full-time employment
in August 2021. Specifically, she has better friends now who do not use illegal drugs. She
has a new boyfriend, and she has moved away from the location where her former friends
live. (Tr. 41)
Applicant’s  two  supervisors,  one  former  and  one  current,  testified  for  her  at  the
hearing. Her former supervisor was in that position during 2021. She believes Applicant
handled classified information in an appropriate manner. She also opined that Applicant
is reliable and trustworthy. Applicant’s current supervisor has been in that position since
November 2022. He considers Applicant a good employee and has had no conduct or
behavioral issues with her. She handled classified information in an appropriate manner.
He is aware of the circumstances in this case and despite those, he has confidence in
Applicant and believes that she should retain her security clearance. (Tr. 42-48, 62-64)
