In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR. His
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 29-year-old senior avionics integration and test engineer employed
by a defense contractor since September 2022. He graduated from high school in May
2012 and received a bachelor’s degree in May 2016. He attended post-graduate courses
from January 2017 to August 2018 but did not receive a degree. He was employed as an
electrical engineer by several federal contractors from October 2017 until he was hired
by his current employer.
In October 2017, Applicant submitted an electronic questionnaire for non-sensitive
positions  (e-QIP)  (SF 85  format).  He  answered  “No”  to  the  question,  “In  the  last  year,
have you used, possessed, supplied, or manufactured illegal drugs?” He did not disclose
that he had used lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and mushrooms on various occasions
between approximately 2013 and the date of his e-QIP and that he had used marijuana
from about August 2012 through the date of his e-QIP.
In September 2022, Applicant submitted another e-QIP (SF 86 format), seeking a
security clearance. In response to questions about illegal use of drugs or drug activity, he
disclosed that he regularly used marijuana in college about once a week between 2012
and September 2016 and that he used marijuana about one to three times a year between
2016 and 2021. He disclosed that he used hallucinogenic substances such as LSD and
mushrooms about two times a year while in college and about once a year until 2021. He
disclosed that he used Adderall as a study aid in college a few times a year. Finally, he
disclosed that he purchased marijuana illegally from 2012 to 2016 and that he purchased
it from legal dispensaries from 2016 to 2021.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  his  previous  drug  use  was
infrequent, that he was not dependent on drugs, and that they had no negative effect on
his work or personal life. He decided to stop using illegal drugs in September 2021, when
he was offered a position that required a security clearance. He stated that he has not
used Adderall for seven years. He stated that he did not disclose his drug involvement in
his October 2017 e-QIP because he was young, “relatively fresh out of school,” and afraid
that he would be fired if he disclosed it. He declared that he will not use illegal drugs in
the future. He acknowledged that his falsification was wrong and that he now understands
that he needs to be candid and forthright in matters involving national security.
In Applicant’s response  to  the  FORM, he  pointed  out that his last  drug  use  was
more than two years ago and that it was his only drug involvement in the last four years.
He declared his intent to refrain from further illegal drug use and asked for consideration
of his change of behavior and full disclosure of past drug use.
