Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  single  woman  with  two  children,  ages  13  and  5.  She
graduated from college in 2009 after which, she worked in a number of different fields,
including as a medical assistant and as a teacher. During a four-month period in 2013,
she worked fulltime as a  teacher and parttime as a waitress while enrolled in vocational
school. (GE 1 at 14, 18) In 2018, she began working for a defense contractor in the parts
assembly division.
Applicant  incurred  approximately  $32,000  of  delinquent  student  loan  debts,  as
alleged in subparagraphs 1.a  through 1.f, 1.h, and 1.n. (AE B) A single mother, Applicant
attributes her problems keeping up with her student loan payments to difficulty supporting
her two children, one of whom has special needs, with inconsistent financial support from
the children’s fathers. (Tr. 49-50) In 2020, Applicant contacted the student loan creditor
for  help  refinancing  the  loans.  After  the  creditor  conducted  an  income  and  expense
analysis, Applicant’s monthly payments were reduced to $5.00 per month. (AE B at 1-3)
Applicant has been paying this amount as agreed.  The accounts are currently in good
standing. (AE B at 4; GE 6 at 3-6)
In  2015,  Applicant’s  commercial  debts  began  to  fall  behind  after  her  live-in
boyfriend broke up  with  her and stopped making payments towards  a motorcycle loan
that she had financed. Applicant subsequently discovered that her ex-boyfriend had been
opening credit card accounts in her name without her knowledge while they were living
together, “keeping it hidden,” and had been continuing to abuse her credit after they had
separated. (Tr. 22; GE 7 at 1) By 2020, the commercial debt that appeared on Applicant’s
credit report totaled $14,000, as alleged in subparagraphs 1.a through 1.f, 1.h and 1.n.
Applicant then asked her father for help. He allowed her and  the two children to
move into his home so that she could stabilize her financial situation. (Tr. 22)  After moving
in with her father, Applicant then went to the police department to report the identity theft.
After finding them to be unhelpful, she closed all the accounts and retained an attorney
who has been helping her identify and remove these accounts from her credit record. (Tr.
35)
The debt alleged in SOR subparagraph 1.g, totaling $2,593, is the motorcycle that
Applicant’s ex-boyfriend stopped making loan payments after they separated. Applicant
contacted  the  creditor,  informed  it  of  what  happened,  whereupon  the  creditor
repossessed  it.  (AE  C)  The  creditor  told  Applicant  that  she  was  responsible  for  the
deficiency. (AE C) Applicant disputed this contention and is seeking its removal from her
credit report. (AE A at 2)  With  the  help of Applicant’s attorney, all  the debts alleged in
subparagraph 1.i through 1.o and 1.q have been removed from her credit report. (AE A)
Applicant satisfied the debt alleged in subparagraph 1.p, totaling $363. (Answer at 6)
Applicant  is  now  vigilant  about  managing  her  finances.  In  June  2019,  she
completed an employer-sponsored financial management course and in 2021, she took
a course on how to satisfy outstanding debt. (AE E) In addition, she routinely watches
financial self-help videos. (AE F)
