Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 29 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016. He is not married
and has no  children. He  has worked  for a government  contractor since October 2022.
(Item 1)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in November 2022. In
it he disclosed his past illegal drug use, purchases, and sales. Based on his admissions,
the SOR alleged the following:
From about July 2014 to September 2022, Applicant used  marijuana with
varying frequency and purchased and sold it on various occasions. (SOR
¶¶ 1.a and 1.b)
From  about  June  2015  to  December  2016,  Applicant  used  ecstasy  with
varying frequency and purchased ecstasy on various occasions. (SOR ¶¶
1.c and 1.d)
From  about  July  2015
to  January  2016,  Applicant  used  DMT
(Dimethyltryptamine)  with  varying  frequency  and  purchased  DMT  on
various occasions. (SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f)
From  about  August  2015  to  October  2022,  Applicant  used  LSD  (lysergic
acid diethylamide) with varying frequency and purchased LSD on various
occasions. (SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.h)
From about October 2015 to September 2022, Applicant used mushrooms
with  varying frequency and purchased mushrooms on  various occasions.
(SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.j)
From  about  March  2016
to  December  2016,  Applicant  used
benzodiazepines with varying  frequency and purchased benzodiazepines
on various occasions. (SOR ¶¶ 1.k and 1.l)
In  December  2016,  Applicant  purchased  and  used  the  prescription
medication Adderall that was not prescribed to him. (SOR ¶¶ 1.m and 1.n)
From about November 2021 to February 2022, Applicant used cocaine with
various frequency and purchased it on various occasions. (SOR ¶¶ 1.o and
1.p)
From  about  December  2021  to  July  2022,  Applicant  used  nitrous  oxide
(N2O) with varying frequency and purchased it on various occasions. (SOR
¶¶ 1.q and 1.r)
Regarding  his  future  intention  to  use  marijuana,  ecstasy,  mushrooms,  LSD,
Adderall  and  nitrous oxide  gas,  Applicant  stated  in  his SCA  that  he  would  discontinue
their uses in the future as per requirements of his employer’s policies and to maintain a
security clearance. Having a good job and workplace were more important. (Item 2)
Regarding his future use of DMT, Applicant said he did not intend to use it in the
future because “I got the experiences I sought from this substance; I have no desire to
use it again.” Regarding future use of benzodiazepine, he said, “I did not particularly enjoy
or  get  anything  out  of  using  this  substance  and  do  not  plan  on  using  it  ever  again.”
Regarding future use of cocaine, he said he did not intend on using it in the future because
“the last time I used it, I suffered a very painful reaction to it that resembled anaphylaxis,
it was the most horrible experience I have ever had, it lasted several hours.” He further
stated, “I am  very grateful to  be  alive  and  strive more than  ever to be  healthy after the
mistake I made of using this substance.” (Item 2)
Applicant made additional comments regarding his drug activity on his SCA. He
requested that his drug activity remain confidential and requested that anyone that wished
to speak to him about his drug use do so in a private setting because where he works the
walls are very easy to hear through. He stated, “I do not want any of my co-workers to
know any of this information that don’t absolutely have to.” (Item 2)
Applicant completed government interrogatories in June 2023. He affirmed that his
statement made to the investigator was essentially accurate, except for some spelling of
names,  biographical  information,  and  work  history.  In  addition,  he  noted  that  some
information from his SCA  was  incorrectly  copied  and  included  as part  of his interview.
Specifically,  the  quantity  of  cocaine  he  used  each  time  and  the  number  of  times  he
purchased  mushrooms.  I  have  noted  the  discrepancies  and  will  only  consider  the
information  regarding  these  facts  taken  from  the  SCA.  Including  in  the  interrogatories,
Applicant  reported  the  times  he  purchased  different  drugs,  from  whom,  and  the  price.
(Item 3)
Applicant  further  stated  that he  no  longer associates  with  anyone he  previously
used  illegal  drugs  with.  He  said  he  moved  to  a  new  location,  which  has  been  a  great
change for him. He enjoys his work environment, and his life is more peaceful and calm.
(Item 3)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, regarding future marijuana, ecstasy, DMT, LSD,
mushrooms,  benzodiazepines,  Adderall,  and  cocaine  use,  he  stated:  “I  don’t  mind  not
using  the  substance  and  I don’t  intend  to  as long  as  I have  a  reason  not;  my employment.”
(Item  1)
Applicant  did  not  provide  a  response  to  the  FORM  or  any  information  about
participation in drug counseling or treatment. He did not provide an update on whether he
has continued to refrain from illegal drug use.
