Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He married in 2011 and divorced in 2014. He remarried
in 2016. He has two children from this marriage, ages seven and five. He  completed a
security clearance application in March 2019. In it, he disclosed that he enlisted in the
military in 2000 and he was currently on active duty. The FORM does not list a date of
discharge.  The  evidence  provided  shows  that  he  was  administratively  processed  for
separation in August 2017. Based on information in the FORM, it appears he was still on
active duty in 2019. It is likely he was retained in the military and permitted to retire when
he  became  eligible.  He  is  being  sponsored  for  a  security  clearance  by  his  current
employer, a government contractor.
The SOR alleged and Applicant admitted the following:
1.a: Arrested and charged with driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol
in October 2009.
1.b:  Received  treatment  at  a  Substance  Abuse  Rehabilitation  Program
(SARP) from May 2014 to June 2014 and was diagnosed with alcohol use
disorder, severe.
1.c: Arrested and charged with DUI in January 2017.
1.d: Received treatment at SARP from March 2017 to April 2017 and was
diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, severe.
1.e: Charged with violations of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
Articles 86, 107, and 134 for providing a false official statement and failing
to report to place of duty due to excessive alcohol consumption in July 2017.
1.f: Received treatment at behavioral health clinic from April 2019 to May
2019 and was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, severe.
1.g: Received treatment at [X] Hospital from September 2019 to December
2019 and was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, severe.
1.h:  Continued  to  consume  alcohol  excessively  and  to  the  point  of
intoxication until July 2022, notwithstanding being diagnosed with alcohol
use disorder, severe on several occasions.
Applicant  completed  government  interrogatories  in  June  2023  and  affirmed
statements he made to a government investigator in May 2019. He acknowledged he had
been arrested in 2009 for DUI. He said he had been drinking at a bar with friends and
when he was driving home, he was stopped by the police. He was charged with DUI. He
was convicted and received a fine and his license was suspended. He completed a first
offender program and was on probation for three years. He did not have to report to a
probation officer. He completed his probation. (Items 3, 5)
Applicant told the government investigator that in about 2012 he began consuming
alcohol almost daily and then started to binge drink three to five days a month. He said
that alcohol began impacting his life negatively in about 2014. He would consume it alone
at home and would drink 10 or more glasses of whiskey. He attributed his alcohol issues
to post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). He told the investigator that he was unaware at
the time that alcohol was impacting his life. He disclosed that he participated in alcohol
counseling and treatment and was professionally diagnosed as an alcohol abuser and
alcohol dependent. (Item 3)
Applicant said that in May 2014, he voluntarily sought alcohol treatment because
he was drinking almost daily for about a year and a half to deal with his PTSD. He went
to  the  substance  abuse  office,  and  he  was  screened  and  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use
disorder,  severe  and  was  referred  to  a  rehabilitation  program  The  qualification  of  the
person who diagnosed him is unknown. He participated in the rehabilitation program for
35 days and then was transferred on orders to a new duty station. (Item 3)
Applicant disclosed that he was arrested for DUI in January 2017 after he had been
consuming alcohol in the barracks and left to get some food. He fell asleep in the drive-
thru of a restaurant.  Military police responded  and his breathalyzer results were .24%.
Applicant was attending a military training course at the time and was told he would fail it
due to the incident. He went back to his barracks and continued to consume alcohol. He
failed to report to his assigned duty the next day and his command took him to the hospital
where he was placed in the detoxication unit for five days. He was then screened and
diagnosed with alcohol use disorder-severe and was an inpatient at the Substance Abuse
Rehabilitation Program for 35 days. The qualifications of the person who diagnosed him
are unknown. He completed the program and returned to his unit. His DUI was dismissed
in court. (Items 3, 5, 6)
Applicant  disclosed  that  in  July  or  August  2017,  he  went  to  UCMJ  Article  15
nonjudicial  punishment  (NJP)  for  failing  to  report  to  duty,  providing  a  false  official
statement, and because he was too drunk to go to work (Articles 86, 107 and 134). He
explained that he was drinking into the early morning hours and was drunk when he woke
up. He called his command and told them he was having car troubles. He was staying at
a hotel at the time because he was transferring duty stations. He was supposed to check
out of the hotel the next day. When he failed to do so, the hotel owner contacted his unit.
Military personnel arrived to do a wellness check. They learned Applicant had lied to the
command. Applicant provided a letter to his command to be considered at his NJP. In it,
he  said  he  had  to  do  better,  and  that  he  had  completely  abstained  from  alcohol
consumption and was attending AA at least five days a week. He was working the 12-
step AA program and had a sponsor. He was also seeing a counselor and a psychiatrist.
At  NJP,  Applicant  received  restriction  and  forfeitures,  both  of  which  were  suspended.
(Items 3, 5)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  in  April  2019  he  voluntarily  sought  alcohol
treatment because he continued to consume alcohol. He said since 2017 he had been
binge drinking three to five days a month. He saw a military mental health professional
who diagnosed him with alcohol disorder-severe with PTSD symptoms. He was referred
to a civilian mental health clinic. He said he saw a doctor there and completed treatment
in  May  2019.  He  told the  investigator that  it  was  unlikely  that  he  would  ever consume
alcohol again because of its negative impact on his life. He said he had gone to counseling
and rehabilitation, and he and his wife no longer purchase alcohol. (Item 3)
Applicant  completed  another  set  of  interrogatories  in  March  2023.  In  them,  he
disclosed that he does not currently consume alcohol and his last consumption was the
week  of  July  25-29,  2022.  He  said  he  had  five  drinks.  He  said  he  no  longer  enjoys
consuming alcohol in any setting and does not enjoy the taste or its effects. He disclosed
he  was  taking  medication  to  help  him  abstain  from  alcohol  consumption.  He  did  not
provide any specific information about the type of medication, who prescribed it, and how
long  he  has  been  taking  it.  He  did  not  intend  to  consume  alcohol  in  the  future.  He
disclosed his last blackout was in August 2021. He disclosed his 2014 and 2017 inpatient
treatments  for alcohol use  disorder and  was  advised  as  part of  his aftercare  to  attend
Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  and  check  in  with  the  substance  abuse  counselor once a
week for a year. He further disclosed that from September 2019 to December 2019, he
received treatment and was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder-severe. He was advised
to attend AA and check-in with his substance abuse counselor once a week for a year.
He said he complied with the requirements. He did not provide any documents to support
his statements.
Applicant did not provide a response to the FORM or any corroborating documents
from mental health professionals about his diagnoses of alcohol use disorder. He did not
provide information about whether he currently attends AA and if he has a sponsor. He
did not provide an update about his sobriety.
