Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  two  young  daughters.  In  May
2017, he earned an associate degree in engineering, and two years later he earned two
bachelor’s degrees in applied mathematics and physics. In March 2020, he was employed
by a government contractor as a laser physicist with a research and development group.
In  November 2021, he submitted  his resignation  to his employer.  In  January 2022,  he
moved to another state to begin employment with a different government contractor as
an optical research engineer. In May 2023, he graduated with a master’s degree in optical
sciences from a prestigious university. (GE 1 and 3; Tr. 21, 23; Answer; AE B)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant had used marijuana from about
Fall 2011 to about June 2022, and after being granted a DOD security clearance in March
2021.  (SOR ¶ 1.a) It also  alleged that he  purchased marijuana  with  varying  frequency
from January 2022 until June 2022. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Applicant admitted these allegations with
clarification.  He  testified  that  he  smoked  marijuana  once  in  the  Fall  of  2011;  he  used
marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  2014  through  2017;  and  then  he  used
marijuana  from  about January 2022  through June 2022,  while  he was  living  in  a  state
where  marijuana  use  was  legal  under  state  law.  He  was  not  aware  that  the  state  law
conflicted with federal law, and, in the context of DOD security clearances, that marijuana
use was considered illegal. He purchased marijuana from state-licensed vendors, and he
used marijuana occasionally. He stated, “Upon [my employment] resignation, I fully and
honestly believed my clearance ended with it.” He also noted in his Answer, “I have never
once seen or handled a classified document.” (Answer; Tr. 24-25)
Applicant explained that he did not undergo a full security clearance investigation
or  was  involved  in  a  background  interview  by  the  time  he  had  resigned  from  his
employment in late 2021. He neither knew the definition of a “federal contractor” nor the
rules,  laws,  and  regulations  that  went  along  with  this  concept  in  the  context  of  DOD
security clearances. He indicated in his November 2020 SCA that he never intended to
use marijuana again. He was truthful when he wrote that because he was living in a state
where marijuana use was illegal, and he assumed he would continue living in that state.
After he moved to a different state in January 2022, he was asked by his current employer
to  reapply  for  a  security  clearance.  In  June  2022,  Applicant  conducted  research  and
immediately stopped his use of marijuana after he discovered that such use, even in a
state where it is legal, is still considered an illegal controlled substance under federal law.
He disclosed his marijuana use on his January 2022 SCA. Applicant adamantly denied
that  he  had  been  put  on  notice  of  the  security  significance  of  marijuana  use  when  he
applied for a security clearance in late 2020. As soon as he became aware of how federal
law applied to him in a state where marijuana use is legal, his marijuana use ended. He
has not used marijuana since June 2022, and he does not intend to use it in the future.
(Answer; Tr. 24-26, 31-33 36, 39-40; GE 1 and 2)
In  August  2022,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  authorized  DOD  investigator
about his listed use of marijuana on the June 2022 SCA. Applicant told the investigator
that he had used marijuana weekly to monthly from January 2022 to June 2022. He also
explained  that  he  stopped  his  use  of  marijuana  after  he  learned  in  June  2022  of  the
application of federal law and the overall security significance of such use. He told the
investigator that he did  not  know that his  initial  security clearance could  continue from
one government contractor to the next. Applicant was remorseful about his recent use of
marijuana. (GE 1 and 3)
In August 2023, his employer’s facility security officer sent to employees the Office
of  the  Under Secretary of  Defense memorandum  “Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for
Agencies  Conducting  Adjudications.”  Applicant  provided  this document  as  evidence  to
show that it was sent to employees due to the confusion about marijuana use in a state
which had legalized its use and the consequence to DOD security clearance holders living
in those states. The Memorandum disclosed that government contractor employees are
to refrain from marijuana use upon initiation of the national security and vetting process.
Applicant contends that he has followed this guidance because he immediately stopped
his  use  of  marijuana  in  June  2022,  while  he  was  under  investigation  by  the  U.S.
Government. He discontinued  his use of marijuana when  he became aware of  current
federal law and the overall security significance. (AE A; Tr. 26-31, 36)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶¶  1.a  and 1.b were cross alleged  under Guideline E.
Character Evidence
Applicant testified  that  within three  years, and  just  after  he  turned  the  age  of 30,
he  received  three  employment promotions. He  is now the  senior optical research engineer
in his group.  He also submitted  a  character reference  letter from  a colleague  who  works
with  him. This  colleague  found  Applicant to  be  a  person  of unquestionable integrity,  goal-
oriented, and fully transparent. He also stated he was aware of the general confusion for
new hires when they reside in a state where marijuana use is legal while seeking a DOD
security clearance. He recommended Applicant be granted national security eligibility.
