Applicant admitted all the allegations in the SOR. Her admissions are incorporated
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony,
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  29  years  old.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2019.  She  is  not
married and has no children. She works for a federal contractor, but it is unknown when
she started employment. It appears she also works part time at a restaurant. She did not
disclose  any  periods  of  unemployment  in  her  September  2022  security  clearance
application (SCA). (Item 3)
The SOR alleges 19 delinquent debts totaling approximately $33,195, owed for a
repossessed  vehicle  and  various  consumer  and  medical  accounts.  The  debts  are
supported by Applicant’s admissions, disclosures in her SCA and interrogatories, and a
credit report from November 2022. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5)
In   response   to   interrogatories  from   April  2023,  Applicant  acknowledged   all   the
SOR debts.  She  indicated  that she  made  payment arrangements  for the  debt  in SOR ¶
1.b   ($3,461).  She   did  not  provide   any  supporting   documents  of   the   arrangement  she
made  or  proof of  any payments.  (Item 4)
In  response  to  interrogatory  questions  that  asked  Applicant  to  explain  the
circumstances that caused her accounts to become delinquent, she stated that she did
not know the importance of financial stability. Her income has been an issue because she
never had a job that gave her financial stability. Her new job has allowed her to save and
start consolidating her debts. She said she started working with creditors to pay off her
bills and her end goal is to have paid everything by 2025. She further stated that she paid
one debt (it was not alleged in the SOR). She said now that she is more financially stable,
she can comfortably pay her current debts and expenses. Her goal is the save enough
so every two to three months she can pay off a debt. (Item 4)
Applicant did not provide any documentary evidence that she has contacted her
creditors,  made  payment  arrangements  and  is  working  with  her  creditors,  or  made
payments towards any of the SOR debts.
