Applicant, age 36, married his current wife in January 2022. He was married to his
first  wife  from  2013  through  2017.  They  separated  when  she  was  about  four  months
pregnant with their now eight-year-old child, and remained separated for about two years
before  their  divorce  was  finalized  in  January  2017.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
2017, and a master’s degree in 2019, both in information technology. He served on active
duty  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  2006  through  May  2017,  when  he  was  honorably
discharged  and  transitioned  to  the  inactive  reserves.  Since  June  2017,  he  has  been
steadily employed by various defense contractors as a system administrator, except for
one period of unemployment from March through September 2020. He began working for
his current sponsor since about December 2021 or January 2022. He has maintained a
DOD  security  clearance  since  2006,  during  which  time  he  completed  three  EQIPs,
including his most recent 2020 EQIP. (GE 1; GE 3 at 11; AE E; Tr. at 7, 33, 76-77, 79,
84, 94)
While  on  active  duty,  Applicant  was  stationed  overseas  twice:  Country  A  from
August  2007  to  August  2009;  and  Country  B  from  August  2009  to  August  2012.  As  a
defense  contractor,  he  has  worked  primarily  overseas:  Country  C  from  August  2018
through June 2019; and Country A from July 2019 through present, except for the period
from July to September 2020, when he temporarily resided in Country D with Friend X.
The SOR does not raise foreign preference or foreign influence concerns. (GE 1; GE 3 at
10, 13; Tr. at 147)
Under Guideline E, the SOR  alleged that Applicant: (1) intentionally falsified  his
2020 EQIP by failing to disclose relevant facts about his disciplinary record in the military
and involvement with foreign nationals (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.c), and (2) solicited a prostitute
while traveling overseas in about late 2019 or 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.d). Under Guideline F, the
SOR alleged three delinquent debts totaling $25,508. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a – 2.c). In his Answer,
he  stated  “I  admit”  to  each  of  the  Guideline  F  and  E  allegations,  with  explanations.
However, I construed his responses to SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c as denials because he
denied any intent to falsify in the accompanying explanations. (Tr. at 9-10)
SOR ¶ 1.a
On  his  2020  EQIP,  Applicant  answered  “no”  to  two  questions  asking  about  his
disciplinary record in the military. He did not otherwise disclose that he  was subject to
nonjudicial punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ)
in January 2017 (Article 15), for misconduct involving missing equipment. (GE 1)
During  his  March  2021  security  clearance  interview  (2021  SI),  Applicant  initially
affirmed that he had not been subject to court marital or other disciplinary procedure under
the UCMJ. After confrontation, he acknowledged the Article 15. He claimed that he did
not  disclose  the  Article  15  on  his  2020  EQIP  because  he  thought  it  fell  outside  of  the
reportable seven-year period. He denied any wrongdoing with respect to the misconduct
for which he received the Article 15. He claimed that he was made to take the blame for
the missing equipment even though it was already missing when he took over the position
of inventory custodian. He maintained that he agreed to accept punishment because he
was in the process of leaving the military at the time. He stated that he elected the Article
15 for the benefit of an early separation, after being offered two punishment options: (1)
a letter of reprimand (LOR) and an honorable discharge in one year; or (2) the Article 15
and an honorable discharge in four months.  In his Answer, he  stated  that he  was “the
[unit’s]  scape  goat”  and  “was  not  educated  enough  with  military  UCMJ  policy  to  avoid
[punishment].” (GE 3 at 11-12)
At the hearing, Applicant maintained that he initially tried “to fight” the punishment,
but then agreed to accept it because he was “ready to get out of the military” after learning
that he could earn more money as a defense contractor. He stated that he was told that
accepting punishment would afford him the opportunity for  an early separation with an
honorable discharge. He explained that he had reenlisted for another five years in 2016.
He was neither asked, nor did he address, why he reported on his 2020 EQIP “enlistment
ended” as his reason for leaving active duty. (Answer; GE 1; Tr. at 36, 40-42, 113, 145)
Beginning with his Answer and continuing through the hearing, Applicant denied
that he intentionally omitted the Article 15 from his 2020 EQIP and during his 2021 SI. He
addressed his 2021 SI omission as follows,
It  took me  a  second  to  remember the  incident  .  . . I  was not hiding  the  Article
15,  I simply  forgot about it  since  it had  been  over 4  years since  I  left active
duty. (Answer)
I  simply  forgot  about  the   Article  15   .  .  .  Once   I  fully  separated   from   the
military, everything  about the  military life  I had  I did  not sit around  and  think
about it  all  the  time  . . .  My concern  was  never to  remember how I  exited  the
military. That’s why when  the  investigator asked  me  about it, I remembered
it, but initially I didn’t .  . .  The  last  thing  on  my  mind  was an  Article 15. (FORM
response)
I  was  talking   to   the   [DOD  investigator],  she   asked   me   if  I  had   judicial
punishment,  and  I was  like  I don't think I've  had  judicial punishment before.
And  then  she  said  you  had  an  Article 15, and  I  was like  yes, I had  an  Article
15. And  she  said  well, that's judicial punishment,  and  I was like  oh  okay. I
wasn't trying  to  hide  the  fact that  I  had  an  Article 15, I  honestly just  forgot  in
the  moment. (Answer; GE 8; Tr. at 22)
Applicant initially testified about his 2020 EQIP omission as follows,
When  I was going  through  my [2020  EQIP],  and  I was just  writing  answers,
and   answering   everything,  it   asked   me   about  it,  and   I  said   no   simply
because  I didn't remember.  I got  out [of]  the  military, I don't  know, seven,
eight years ago. When  I saw the  question  I just marked  no, because  I was
like  no,  I didn't  get any  action  from  the  UCMJ. I didn't  think  about  it at the
moment.  I wasn't saying  no  because  I didn't  have  it  if that makes  sense. I
was  just   saying  no   because   I   honestly   didn't   remember.   I don't have   any
other explanation  for that,  I just didn't remember in the  moment. (Tr. at  22-
23)
Upon  cross  examination,  Applicant  reiterated  that  he  answered  “no”  to  the
questions  on  his  2020  EQIP  that  asked  about  his  disciplinary  record  because  he  “just
honestly didn’t remember.”  He then stated that, when he agreed to accept punishment
for the missing equipment, he believed that he would only be receiving LORs. He claimed
that he did not know about the Article 15 until some months after he separated from the
military. Then, he had the following exchange with Department Counsel:
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL:  So, once again then, why didn't you disclose
that Article 15 in the [2020 EQIP]?
APPLICANT: When I [completed the 2020 EQIP] I simply just forgot. I said
that before, I wasn't thinking about it. It's not -- I literally just was not thinking
that it was judicial punishment, or the Article 15. I didn't remember that I got
it, it was some years ago, I don't have another answer. I honestly just didn't
remember at the time.
DEPARTMENT   COUNSEL:  Okay,  but  you  knew  that  you  had  received
some form of discipline while you were in the military, correct?
APPLICANT: Yeah, LOR, yeah.
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: So, why didn't you disclose that?
APPLICANT: The LOR?
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: Yeah.
APPLICANT: I mean that's not punishment though, that's like a slap on the
wrist, like hey we're documenting this, don't do it again. I don't think that's
like discipline, at least from what I know. (Tr. at 35-43)
SOR ¶ 1.b
On  his  2020  EQIP,  Applicant  reported  his  ex-wife  as  a  Country  B  national.  He
answered  “no”  in  response  to  a  question  asking  him  about  “close  and/or  continuing
contact with a foreign national,” and did not otherwise disclose his close and continuing
contact with two other foreign nationals. (GE 1; Tr. at 49-50, 118)
During his 2021 SI, Applicant volunteered that had close and continuing contact
with a Country E national with whom he was currently in a relationship, and a Country F
national with whom was previously in a relationship. He claimed that he did list them on
the  2020  EQIP  because  he  misunderstood  the  question.  He  stated  that  only  Friend  X
knew about either relationship. He maintained that he was not required to report foreign
contacts  to  his  employer.  About  the  Country  E  national,  he  stated:  (1)  she  resided  in
Country A and worked as a stripper at a local strip club; (2) he first met her in early 2020
through a friend who worked with her at the club; and (3) he maintained daily contact with
her, both in person and by telephone. About the Country F national, he stated: (1) during
their relationship, she resided in Country C and worked as a cook at a hotel; (2) he first
met her in 2018 via an online dating application; (3) they dated for eight months; (4) they
last had contact one or two years ago; and (5) he did not expect to have future contact
with her. (GE 3 at 13)
In his May 10, 2022 response to interrogatories, Applicant reported that he married
the Country E national (his current wife)  in January 2022, and first met her in January
2020. He reported his first and last dates of contact with the Country F national as March
2018, and March 2019, respectively. (HE II; GE 3 at 2, 4)
Beginning with his Answer and continuing through the hearing, Applicant denied
that he  intentionally  omitted  his current  wife and  the  Country F  national  from  his 2020
EQIP. In his Answer, he stated,
Initially on the [2020 EQIP] I answered  the  question the way I did,  because
I didn’t think that non-cohabited,  small  relationships  overseas would  apply
to  that  question. Being  overseas,  I was dating  primarily foreign  [women], but
it was just dating and  nothing  serious until I came  to [Country A] and  found
[my  current  wife].  But  again,  I  was not  hiding  this information  and  will  gladly
admit   to   dating   while   overseas.   Even   though   I  am   now  married   to   the
[Colombian  national] I was dating.
In his FORM response, Applicant stated,
When  I was dating  my  current  wife  back in  2020  she  was  20  years  old .  .  .
dating  a  20  year  [old] is not easy  for  me  at my age  .  .  .  At  the  time  of the
[2020  EQIP] Yes I  had  [known my current  wife]  for a  year. However,  I was
not supporting  her for the  entire time. So  when  the  [2020  EQIP] asked  me
if I considered  her as a  foreign  contact,  my answer  [was]  no. At that time
she  was just  a  young  pretty girl I was interested  in.  We  were  not in  a  full
relationship  for a  year. I only said a  year as a guess,  because  I didn’t want
the investigator to try to make it seem like it was [a] different situation.
At the hearing, Applicant proffered the following reasons to explain why, at the time
he completed his 2020 EQIP, he did not consider either his current wife or the Country F
national to be reportable foreign contacts: (1) when he read the 2020 EQIP question, he
did not understand how the government defined “close and/or continuing contact with a
foreign national” and had not read the  words “bound by affection;” (Tr. at 53-57); (2) at
the time he completed the 2020 EQIP, he was not in a “solid relationship” with his current
wife and was not living with her (Tr. at 55, 56); and (3) he was “just dating” the Country F
national and was never in a relationship with her. (Tr. at 61, 118) He also stated,
Again,  at the time, to be honest, I  did not know what a  foreign contact was.
I thought it  was like  -- I'm  not going  to  say  I didn't know what it was, I know
what a  foreign  contact is, but I didn't think it was just  like  girls that you  had
relations with.  (Tr. at 23)
I  didn't   know  it  was  like   hey,  if   you   touched   this  girl,  or  if  you   had   a
conversation  with  this girl, or something  like  that.  I don't know where  the  line
of foreign   contact  is   with   a   female.   I  mean   if   you  meet   one  night,  you  do
something, and  then  you  don't talk to  her again,  I don't even  know how that
goes.  (Tr. at 23)
And as far as my current wife, I was just dating her. . . We would go  weeks
and  weeks -- not weeks, we would go  days, or a  week maybe  without talking
to  each  other. . . it was  not like  we are together and  she  was my girlfriend.
It  was nothing  like  that  for a  while,  for a  very long  time.  . . So, again, like  I
didn't  know  at  that  time,  just  on   and   off   dating   meant  foreign   contact.   I
honestly just  didn't know that's what it meant. I apologize,  but I didn't know.
(Tr. at 23-24)
So, when  I  filled  this out  . . . I not like  in a  solid  relationship with  [my current
wife].  I  was still  trying  to  get her to be  in  a  relationship with  me. I mean,  I'm
not going  to  say that,  I  was pursuing  her,  I guess, and  we were  dating.” (Tr.
at 56)
I didn't know much  about being  with  a  girl from  a  third  world  country. The
only other foreign  person  that I  had  dated  before was  [the  Kenyan  national],
but  she  wasn't  -- I  wasn't dating,  that  was just me  kind  of having  relations,
and  then  it wasn't -- I  wasn't in relationships like  that. It  was -- I  don't know
how to  say it professionally, if you  understand  what I'm  trying  to  say, it's not
a professional way to say it. (Tr. at 56-57)
Upon cross examination, Applicant acknowledged that he had undergone security
training about foreign contacts. However, he claimed his training did not indicate to him
that either his current wife or the Country F national were reportable close and continuing
contacts on his 2020 EQIP. He maintained that he did not realize that they were reportable
until the point in the hearing when he  re-read the 2020 EQIP and then understood the
meaning  of  “bound  by  affection.”  By  the  end  of  the  hearing,  he  professed  an
understanding  of  his  security  obligations  with  respect  to  reporting  contact  with  foreign
nationals. (Tr. at 54-55, 61, 119-120, 129-130, 137-138)
At various times throughout the hearing, Applicant testified about the timeline of
his relationship with his current wife to underscore that it was not serious at the time he
completed the 2020 EQIP. He attributed any inconsistencies in his testimony about the
timeline  to  his  faulty  memory.  He  could  not  remember  whether  he  met  her  in  January
2019  or  January  2020.  He  stated  that,  following  an  argument  in  “mid-2020”  or  “June
2020,” they “stopped talking” for a period that he recalled lasted about “six months, seven
months” or “maybe seven, eight months, six, seven, eight months, one of those, I don't
know which one it was exactly.” He later clarified that they were still talking, but just “didn’t
see  each  other  for  a  really  long  time.”  Then,  he  had  the  following  exchange  with
Department Counsel:
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: What did you get into [an argument] about?
APPLICANT: Me leaving . . . And I told her I was going to leave -- no, she
said she don't want me to leave, and that was what the argument was about.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: She didn't want you to leave, and that's what
the argument was about?
APPLICANT: Yeah. . .
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: . . . is it fair to say that she was upset about
your leaving because you guys were in a serious relationship?
APPLICANT: We wasn't serious. To be honest with you, I don't know why
she was upset . . . She probably knew that once I left she would never come
back to [Country A] . . . So, that's probably what it was. She probably didn't
want to leave [Country A] . . .
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL: Wait, why would your leaving [Country A] mean
she was leaving [Country A], was she going to go with you?
APPLICANT: I wanted her to go with me, I told her I wanted her to go with
me, yeah.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL:  Okay, so that was mid-2020 that you wanted
her to go with you, wherever you were going to end up?
APPLICANT: Yeah. (Tr. at 48-50, 52, 60, 154)
Applicant  struggled   to   explain   why  he   chose   to   report  his   current   wife   and   the
Country F  national as  foreign  contacts  during  his 2021  SI  in  light  of  his position  that he
did not then  consider them as such. He stated,
. . . after the  fact,  then  I probably was like,  okay, well, maybe  I should  just
tell  them  . . .  Maybe  I  did not say all  the  truth  [in  the  2020  EQIP]  but I  did
say the  truth  after.  And  I want  to  stress  that  I  wasn't trying  to  hide  anything
.  .  .    I  figured   at  some   point  I  probably  want  to   .  .  .  get  this  [top   secret
clearance],   which  I  was  applying   for,  which   I  know   that  it's   strict,   right,
eventually at  some  point  I  was  like,  I  was  thinking  I want  to  get  a  poly as
well, and  you  have  to  tell  the  truth, so  it's better to  just  tell  the  truth  and  just,
you  know, even  if you  don't  remember it's  better to  say  it and  not hide  it then
to  hide  it  and  don't  say anything, you  know,  because  then  you  look worse.  I
would have looked worse if you  guys would have  been asking  me now and
then  I would have  just  been  like,  oh, by the  way.  Because  then  that looks
crazy.
. . . I'm  just  saying, like  at the  time  of the  [2020  EQIP] I wasn't even, I wasn't
even  like  thinking.  Like  I  wasn't  even  thinking  about it. I was  just,  you  know,
I was just  going  through  the  [2020  EQIP] and  just  like, you  know, most of
this stuff really doesn't apply to me. I was assuming most of this stuff really
doesn't apply to me. You  know, put what you  know right now to  the best of
your knowledge. Put what you  know. And  that's what I did.  I put what I knew
at the  time  to  the  best of my knowledge  and  then  after I was like, well, maybe
they need to know. I  don't know  . . .  I was just trying to be truthful about it.
. . . Well  obviously [my current wife], when  I  was dating  her .  . .  She's [a
Country E  national] so  I was like, they want to  know about  her, so  I should
tell   about  her.  To   say   about  her,  she   is  [a   Country  E   national]  and   I'm
married to her so  I should say. (Tr. at 123-126)
SOR ¶ 1.c
On  his 2020  EQIP, Applicant answered  “no” in  response  to  a  question  asking  about
“financial support for any foreign  national,”  and  did  not otherwise disclose  that he  provided
financial support to a  foreign  national. (GE 1)
During his 2021 SI, Applicant volunteered that he provided financial support to his
then girlfriend (now current wife)’s mother, who was a citizen and resident of Country E
(Colombia). He proffered the following facts about the financial support: (1) he sent money
to her mother at his then girlfriend’s request; (2) his then girlfriend told him that her mother
needed the money to pay rent because her mother was struggling financially after losing
her job  due  to  COVID; (3) in the  last  year, he  sent approximately $300  via Western Union
to  her mother in Country E  four times; (4) he  never met or had  any contact with  her mother;
(5) he  only sent her mother money because  he  was dating  her daughter; (6) he  has never
provided  financial  support to  any other foreign  national; and  (7) he  did  not list this financial
support on his 2020 EQIP  because he did not think about it. (GE 3 at 14)
In his May 10, 2022 response to interrogatories, Applicant estimated that he sent
a  total  of  $2,000  to  his  then  girlfriend’s  mother,  including  the  $300  he  last  sent  her  in
August  2021.  He  denied  that  he  provided  “financial  support”  to  his current  wife  before
they married but admitted that, since they married, he has supported her “normally as my
wife.” (HE II; GE 3 at 6)
In  his Answer, Applicant stated  “I admit” to  the  facts alleged  in SOR ¶  1.c,  including
that  he  sent $300  per quarter  to  his current  wife’s mother  beginning  on  or around  March
2020. In  the  explanation  accompanying  his admission, he  denied  that  he  sent any money
directly to  her mother. Then,  he  admitted  that  he  gave  money  to  his current wife, initially
without knowing  that she  was sending  the  money he  gave  her to  her mother. He stated
that he  did not report the  money he  gave  to  his current  wife  on  his 2020  EQIP  because
he did not consider it to be financial support. He also stated,
Since   my  last   divorce   the   lawyers  and   judges  made   me   aware   of  what
financial support is,  and  to  me  giving  money to  the  woman  I was dating  at
the  time  was not financial support, since  we were not living  together and  not
in a  relationship.  The  only reason  I knew the  money [I  gave  her] went to  her
mom   was  because   on   the   phone   on   a   random   day  I  hear her say   to   her
mom  that yes she  would  send  her some  money, and  that’s when  I asked  “is
the  money I give [you] going to your mom[?”]  and she  answered yes.
At the hearing, Applicant addressed his 2020 EQIP omission by stating,
So, again, when  I was dating  [my  current wife], randomly once  or a  couple
times she would ask me to send her mom some  money. I said okay, cool. I
had  no  idea  this is  a  type  of support.  She  wasn't even  my  girlfriend, I was
just   --  she   was  a   girl,  we  were   dating   or  whatever,   I  just  gave   her  some
money.   For  me   it  was  innocent,   it  wasn't  like   I'm   paying   her  mom's  rent
every month,  it  was not like  that  .  . . I  don't  know how to  explain it, it was
just random.  (Tr. at 24-25)
At the hearing, Applicant stated that he gave money to his current wife before they
were married to help her pay for groceries, while she was unemployed due to COVID,
since they were not then living together. He maintained that he did not intend for her to
give the money he gave her to her mother. He could not recall how much money he gave
his current wife but estimated that it was no more than “maybe 80 euros” at a time, and
“a  couple  hundred  bucks”  in  total.  He  could  not  recall  details  about  the  timeline  but
acknowledged that he continued to give her money after he found out that she was giving
it to her mother. He stated that, before he found out, he had given her money only once
or twice before, and then, after he found out, he continued to give her money for “maybe
a couple more months, probably three or four months.” (Tr. at 46-47)
Regarding  the  $300  amount  that  he  reported  in  his  May  10,  2022  response  to
interrogatories and referenced his Answer, Applicant stated,
. . . that was an  estimate. I estimated  that I may have  given  that to  her. It
wasn't  an   exact  amount.   I   don't   remember  the   exact  amount  of  money  I
gave  her years ago. It was just an estimate.  (GE 3  at 6; Tr. at 47-48)
SOR ¶ 1.d
In  his  May  10,  2022  and  May  16,  2022  responses  to  interrogatories,  Applicant
admitted that he “paid for sex” in “1-2020/6-2020 1 time,” while he was in Country G. In
his  Answer,  he  admitted  that  he  “solicited  a  prostitute  while  traveling  overseas  in  or
around  late  2019  or  2020.”  He  explained,  “[t]his  happened  while  I  was  out  with  some
friends just having fun. I was unaware that I am not allowed to legally pay a prostitute,
even in a country where it is legal.” (GE 4 at 2)
In his FORM response, Applicant referenced his solicitation as hiring an escort. He
maintained that he believed that he did not violate any rules by hiring an escort because
he was overseas where it was legal. He acknowledged that he knew that hiring an escort
would have been illegal while he was in the military, but believed that, as a contractor,
“the rule didn’t apply to me as I no longer fell under the UCMJ and I was just a normal
civilian.” He also stated,
I have  [not]  been  trained  or told by anything  or  anyone  that I  am  not allowed
as a  contractor to  hire an  escort. If that is wrong, then  I apologize because
I simply didn’t know . .  . In  my time  overseas, I have  seen  and  talked  [to]
hundreds of contractors who  do  it on  a  daily basis and  I thought it was ok
overseas,   since   overseas  the   rules   are  different.   Of  course  I  have   never
done  anything  like  this  in America. Again I apologize for this but [I]  simply
was unaware.” (GE 8  at 1)
At the hearing, Applicant maintained that he solicited a prostitute only one time.
He  acknowledged  that  he  knew  prostitution was  illegal in  the  United  States.  However,
based upon the advice of his coworkers and his own Google search, he concluded that
his solicitation was permissible. He explained that he trusted his coworkers because they
were older and possessed higher security clearances than him. He claimed that he did
not intend to solicit a prostitute when he agreed to attend a party with his coworkers and
attributed his decision to peer pressure. At no time during his testimony did he reference
his solicitation as hiring an escort. (Tr. at 25-26, 135)
Upon  cross-examination,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  undergone  human-
trafficking  training  prior to  soliciting  a  prostitute.  However, he  believed  that  prostitution
was  not  considered  human  trafficking  if  it  was  legal.  Later,  he  testified  that  he  now
understands  that  prostitution  is  considered  human  trafficking;  and  that  “[f]rom  what  I
10
guess I'm learning now is that prostitution is illegal period. No matter if it's legal in that
country or not.” When asked to confirm the country in which his solicitation occurred, he
identified Country G, but he expressed doubt about the accuracy of his recollection. (Tr.
at 62-63, 134-135)
Foreign Travel
On his 2020 EQIP, Applicant reported that he traveled on “many short trips” within
Country A from July 2019 through present. During his 2021 SI, he volunteered that he
also travelled to: (1) Country E for tourism, for seven days in June 2019, and for ten days
in March 2020; (2) Country G for tourism, for two days in December 2019; and (3) Country
D to visit and live with Friend X, for two months from July 2020 to September 2020. He
specified that his travel to Country E occurred before he met his current wife. He claimed
that he did not list his foreign travel to Countries D, E and G on his 2020 EQIP because
he misunderstood the question and thought he was not supposed to list vacations. (GE
1; GE 3 at 13-14)
At the hearing, Applicant admitted that his March 2020 travel to Country E occurred
after he met his current wife, but he maintained that he  has never traveled  with her to
Country E. When asked why he told the investigator during his 2021 SI that his March
2020 travel to Country E occurred before he met his current wife, he attributed his faulty
memory. (Tr. at 50-51, 59-61)
SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2.c
The  alleged  debts  involve:  (1)  a  $18,500  personal  loan  opened  in  Applicant’s
individual name in July 2015, and transferred for collection in June 2016 (SOR ¶ 2.a); (2)
a  $4,032  unsecured  loan  account  opened  in  his  individual  name  in  June  2015,  and
transferred for collection in about July or November 2019 (SOR ¶ 2.b); and (3) a $502 cell
phone account that was transferred for collection in April 2021 (SOR ¶ 2.c).  The debts
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b are confirmed by Applicant’s December 2020 and January
2022 CBRs; and SOR ¶ 2.c by his January 2022 CBR. His December 2020 and January
2022  CBRs  reflect  that  he  disputed  the  account  information  reported  about  the  debts
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b. (GE 6 at 3, 4; Item 7 at 3; GE 8 at 2; GE 9)
On his 2020 EQIP, Applicant disclosed the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c. He stated
that that he could not afford to pay the debt due to his unemployment in 2020. He planned
to pay the debt in full once he started receiving paychecks from his new employment. (GE
1)
During  his  2021  SI,  Applicant  discussed  all  three  debts,  albeit  SOR  ¶ 2.b  after
confrontation. Regarding SOR ¶ 2.a, which he described as a loan account he believed
his ex-wife opened without his knowledge or consent, he stated that he: (1) was unaware
of the loan until its delinquent status was brought to his attention in 2016, when he was
in the process of purchasing a car; (2) did not receive any bills or phone calls about the
debt; (3) once sought the assistance of a credit-repair company regarding this debt, to no
avail; (4) did not list the debt on his 2020 EQIP because it does not belong to him and he
11
does not  know any  details about  it;  and  (5) planned  to  dispute  the  debt with  the  credit
bureau  agencies.  Regarding  SOR ¶  2.b, which he  described  as  a  loan  account he  opened
to  pay  for  a  separate  apartment  and  other  divorce-related  expenses  in  2017,  he  stated:
(1)  the   loan   became   delinquent   due   to   his   failure  to   make   timely  payments;   (2)  he
eventually paid the loan in full; and (3) did not list the debt on  his 2020  EQIP because he
did  not  know  it   had   been   sent   to   collections.  Regarding   SOR  ¶   2.c,   he   stated:  (1)  he
believed  that he  may have  paid the  debt since  it no  longer appeared  on  his CBR; and  (2)
on an unspecified date, he sent a  query about the  debt through  the  cell phone provider’s
mobile   application   and   received   a   response   that  no   account   under   his  name   could  be
found.  (GE 3  at 14, 15)
In  his May 10, 2022  response  to  interrogatories, Applicant stated  that, although  the
credit bureau  agencies  could not  tie  the  debts alleged  in SOR ¶¶  2.a  and  2.b  to  his ex-
wife, they agreed  to  remove  them  from  his CBRs in August 2020,  “due  to  them  being  7
years old  in collection.” In  his  August  2021  response  to  interrogatories, he  admitted  that
he had  neither paid  nor made arrangements  to  pay the debts alleged  in SOR ¶¶ 2.a  and
2.b. He  claimed  that he  had  been  fighting  to  get the  debts removed  from  his CBRs, and
despite  being  successful at times, they “always reappear”  on  his CBRs. He maintained
that  his ex-wife  opened  both  loans  in his name  during  their  divorce. He  acknowledged
that  he had  no  way to prove  it  since his ex-wife  “unfortunately had all  of my  information,”
which she used to  open the two loan accounts online,  making it appear as if he “took out
these loans legally.”  (GE 2 at 6-7; GE 3 at 2, 8)
In his Answer, Applicant claimed that a  “debt advisor” told him not to  pay any of
the alleged debts. He anticipated that all three debts would be removed from his CBRs
by July or August of that year. He attributed all three debts to his ex-wife. He claimed that
after  he  asked  her  for  a  divorce,  she  “took  money  under  my  name”  and  relocated  to
Country B because she did not want the divorce.
Applicant  discussed  all  three  debts  at  the  hearing.  Regarding  SOR  ¶  2.a,  he
acknowledged that he knew about the debt since at least 2016 or 2017, and that when
he asked his ex-wife about this debt while they were married, she wife denied taking any
loans out in his name. He initially affirmed that he had never contacted the creditor of the
debt. Then, he claimed that, while he was in the military and still married to his ex-wife,
he emailed a collection company about the debt more than once on dates that he could
not  recall.  He  maintained  that  the  collection  company  would  not  provide  him  any
information  beyond  stating  that  he  was  obligated  to  pay  the  debt because  he  was  the
named account holder. He denied responsibility for repaying the debt, reiterating his belief
that his ex-wife was responsible for the debt. He did not proffer a plan to resolve the debt
besides waiting for it to be removed from his CBRs pursuant to the statute of limitations.
(Tr. at 26-29, 63-75)
Regarding  SOR  ¶  2.b,  Applicant  denied  responsibility  for  repaying the  debt.  He
initially attributed the debt to his ex-wife and denied that he opened the loan. Upon cross-
examination, he acknowledged that he opened the loan. Without providing documentary
evidence, he claimed that he paid it in full via monthly installments of “a couple hundred
bucks.” (Tr. at 26-29, 63-64, 72-73)
Regarding SOR ¶ 2.c, Applicant explained that the debt involved a U.S. cell phone
he owned prior to moving overseas on an unspecified date. He claimed that: (1) he made
timely payments each month and never missed a payment, including after he  stopped
using the cell phone when he moved overseas; (2) he continued making payments so he
could  maintain  his  U.S.  cell  phone  line;  (3)  after  he  learned,  at  some  point,  that  his
provider cut off the line and cancelled his contract, he contacted the provider to inquire
about making a payment to get the line back and was told that the line was cut off because
he  was  only  allowed  to  keep  an  inactive  line  for  “up  to  a  year.”  Without  providing
documentary evidence, he insisted that he paid the debt and did not understand why it
appeared delinquent on his CBR. Upon cross-examination, Applicant acknowledged that
he was not sure whether or when he paid the debt but maintained that he “must have paid
it because they took it off [his CBR] . . . it hasn't been on there for seven years.” (Tr. at
28-29; Tr. at 74-75)
Debt-Resolution Efforts with Companies 1 and 2
In  December  2015,  Applicant  enrolled  in  a  debt  consolidation  program  with
Company 1 to resolve six debts totaling $28,378, including the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a.
He  agreed  to  make  $319  semi-monthly  payments  beginning  in  January  2016,  and
continuing for 33 months, from which Company 1’s fee and his creditors would be paid.
Company  1  agreed  to  engage  with  his  creditors  to  negotiate  settlements  on  the  debts
enrolled in the program; and to pay the amounts owed to the creditors of those debts that
were successfully settled. At the hearing, Applicant estimated that he paid a total of about
$1,200 to Company 1. The record did not include documents corroborating any payments
Applicant made to Company 1, or that Company 1 made to his creditors. (AE D; Tr. at
133)
In  March 2018, Applicant retained  the  services of Company 2  to  repair  his credit
with  respect to  delinquent debts totaling  $32,051, including  the  debts alleged  in  SOR ¶¶
2.a  and 2.b. He  agreed  to  pay $2,000  to  Company 2  for its services via a  one-time  $400
payment  and  16  monthly payments of $100, beginning  in  April 2018.  He signed  a  form  to
authorize   the   automatic  electronic  transfer   his  payments   to   Company   2.  Company   2
agreed  to  “contact  each  of  the  three  credit reporting  agencies who  appear to  be  reporting
information  on  the  client’s credit reports that   must be  corrected” and  demand  that “the
erroneous information  be  corrected  or removed.” At the  hearing, he  maintained  he  paid  a
total of about $1,500  or $1,600  Company 2,  which  assisted  him  in successfully removing
all  three  alleged  debts from  his CBR. The  record did not include  documents corroborating
any payments Applicant made to  Company 2. (AE B, C; Tr. at 29, 64-65, 67, 70)
In  a  post-hearing  submission,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  unable  to  provide
receipts for any of the payments he made to Companies 1 and 2 because he believed
that he made them either via autopay or phone. He also  reiterated that he lacked any
proof that his ex-wife took out “the loans under my name.” (AE A)
13
Financial Information
On his August 2021 personal financial statement, Applicant reported a net monthly
salary of $8,073, a monthly disability benefit of $1,500 for his 70% rating from the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and a $4,352 net remainder after paying expenses
and payments for unalleged debts. In his FORM response, he characterized a $20,000
payment he received upon his separation from the military as severance pay. (GE 1; GE
2 at 8)
At the hearing, Applicant reported that he has earned an annual salary of about
$121,000 or $122,000 since becoming employed by his current sponsor, that his monthly
VA  payment  increased  to  $1,757  in  early  2023;  and  that  his  monthly  net  remainder
decreased to  “$3,000  maybe.” He stated that he  earned an annual salary of $105,000
from July 2019 through March 2020; and about $113,000 or $115,000 from October 2020
through December 2022 or January 2023. He stated that he did not collect unemployment
compensation during his unemployment in 2020. (Tr. at 79-83, 131-133)
Regarding child support, Applicant testified that he was ordered to pay $513 per
month, pursuant  to his divorce  decree.  He  stated  that  “some  years  ago” he  voluntarily
began paying $530 per month. He also stated that he pays unspecified sums for “anything
that [his child] requires.” He maintained that he has never missed a child support payment.
He stated that his ex-wife and child now reside in the United States. His most recent CBR
from  June  2023,  reflects  no  new  delinquent  accounts  and  that  he  is  living  within  his
financial means. (GE 9; Tr. at 78-79, 113)
Whole-Person Concept
Applicant has consistently “performed very well” on the contract he has supported
since December 2021. He was evaluated as a “Strong Performer” for the 2022 calendar
year. In October 2023, his program manager wrote a letter advocating for him to maintain
his security clearance. At some point, Applicant received a cash award in recognition of
his contributions to the overall success of his team and mission. (AE A, E)
Applicant stated that he “never had any issues” until his divorce (GE 2 at 7). In his
Answer, he stated that he has never had any security incidents. He also declared,
The  air  force  taught  me  integrity  first and  service before  self  and  excellence
in  all   we  do   and   that   is  why  I  have   been   honest  in  all   my  responses.
Upholding  the  values of my clearance  and  protecting  the  US government
has always been  my concern. I would never do  anything  to  jeopardize  that.
In his FORM response, Applicant stated,
I am  human  and  I have  made  very very small  mistakes once  I left active
duty, but nothing I’ve  done is that serious to  make me seem like some kind
of insider threat.  This same  kind  of thing  is what happens in  the  military and
why I chose  to  leave  in  the  first place. I have  said this  before and  I will  say
14
it again.  I  will  never  do  anything  to  jeopardize  the  national security of my
country. I took an oath  and  that oath is valid till the  day I die.
During the hearing, Applicant stated,
. . . I'm  not perfect.  I did make  a  few mistakes here and  there, you  know.
Obviously if  I didn't even  date, if I didn't even  date, you  know, foreign  girls
we probably  wouldn't  even  be  here, you  know. Or put  some  of  this  stuff  on
here correctly, we probably wouldn't even be  here. Big mistake on  my part.
I apologize for that.  But  as far as my job  goes, I'm  amazing  at my  job. I love
my job  . . .  I've  gotten  coined  a  couple times  . . . at work  . . .  As far as my
character goes, I can  say . . .  more than  90  or something  percent of the  time
I'm pretty careful  . .  . I don't do  anything, besides  dating women, that would
like  jeopardize  my  clearance. I don't do  anything, my clearance  is my life,
right?  Like  I  said,  in  the  future  I  want to  get a  poly,  right?  So  I  want to  learn
to   tell   the   truth.  Let  the   government   know   whatever  they  want  to   know.  I
have   no   secrets.   I'll   tell   them   everything.  A   lot   of   people   told   me   that   I
probably was  too honest.  They say, you  probably shouldn't  have  said what
you   said,  you   were  too   honest.   And   I  was  like,   well,  what's  the   point   of
getting a poly if  you're  just going  to  lie.  Like, that's why people fail  the  poly,
you're  lying. I don't understand  the  reason. Just tell  them  the  truth, they're
going  to  find  out anyway, it's the  U.S. government.  You  have  a  clearance,
you  can't hide  the  truth  from  the  U.S. government they're  going  to  find  out
eventually. Just say what it  is. Good  or bad,  you  know what I mean. (Tr. at
139-142)
