Applicant admitted  the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. She denied the SOR
allegation  in  ¶  1.c.  Her  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2008. She married in
2014 and has two children ages seven and  four. She has worked for the same federal
contractor  since  2006.  Applicant  held  a  top  secret  clearance  with  access  to  sensitive
compartmented information (SCI), but it is unknown when she first was granted access.
Applicant completed a security clearance application  (SCA) in September 2020.
Section 23 asked if in the past seven years she had illegally used any drugs or controlled
substance. She answered “yes.” She said that from about June 2011 to the present, she
used marijuana. She stated:
In   the   past,   I’ve   occasionally  used   marijuana   for  recreational  purposes.
However,  since   the   COVID  lock  down   I’ve   started   taking   CBD/THC
gummies more regularly to  help ease  my anxiety and  insomnia.  Honestly,
the  transition  to  the  sole  caregiver of my infant  and  toddler has been  HARD!
I have found these help cope with being stuck in the  house all  day with two
crazy kids.  Some  people unwind  with  a  glass of wine, I like  to  unwind  with
a  gummy. However, I  have  NEVER used  marijuana  during  work hours or
while I’m working. (Item 4)
Applicant  further  stated  that  since  March  2020,  she  would  typically  take  one
gummy at 6:00 p.m. almost every day. She would occasionally smoke marijuana at night
on the weekends. She said her stress levels were “off the charts” being thrown into being
a full-time mother and marijuana helped her relax and sleep. She intended to continue to
use marijuana gummies to manage her anxiety and insomnia because of her challenging
circumstances “being stuck at home 24/7, no interaction with others, having no help.” She
reiterated that she had never been under the influence at work or during working hours.
She disclosed she used the drug while holding a security clearance, and she intended to
continue to do so. She did not report in this SCA that she believed her marijuana use was
legal under state law and therefore permissible. (Item 4)
Applicant also disclosed in her September 2020 SCA that during a 2018 polygraph
examination, when asked about her drug use, she reported that she occasionally used
marijuana. She said that this information did not align with her 2018 SCA because she
had  responded  “no”  to  the  question  that  asked  if  she  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or
controlled substances in the past seven years.  She  answered  “yes” to  the  question  on
her  2020  SCA  that  asked  if  she  ever  had  her  security  clearance  eligibility/access
authorization denied, suspended, or revoked. Apparently, her failure to disclose her illegal
drug use on her 2018 SCA caused her access to SCI to be suspended or revoked but
she continued to hold a top secret security clearance. She said she was given a written
letter  from  a  senior  adjudication  officer  but  did  not  believe  there  is  anything  in  her
employment record.
Applicant completed an SCA in November 2022. Under Section 23, which asked
if in the past seven years she had illegally used any drugs or controlled substance, she
stated  “yes”  and  disclosed  her  marijuana  use.  She  provided  essentially  the  same
information  about  her  past  marijuana  use  except  she  reported  her  last  use  was  in
November 2022. She stated that with the COVID lockdown over, she had cut back on her
use to about three times a week after her children  were asleep. She also continued to
smoke marijuana at night on the  weekends. She does  not drink  alcohol, so  she found
marijuana  helped  her relax  and sleep.  She  reported  that  she  continued  to  use  it  while
holding  a  security  clearance  and  that  she  intended  to  continue  to  use  the  marijuana
gummies and occasionally smoke marijuana in the future. She stated: “Living in [State A]
where marijuana is legal, I see it interchangeably with alcohol.” (Item 3)
Applicant reported on her November 2022 SCA  the following regarding whether
she  had  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially  reprimanded,  suspended,  or
disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security policy:
I was read  in on  a  government program, but it was rescinded  for failing  to
disclose   the   use   of   drugs  on   the   updated   security  paperwork.  I   never
received  a  written  warning,  and  I  don’t believe  anything  was  added  to  my
employee  file but thought I should mention it. I’m not sure if that falls under
a  violation  of the  security policy as I  still  have  an  active  TS DOD clearance.
(Item  3)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  she  reiterated  that  she  used  marijuana  and
marijuana  gummies  during  the  pandemic  to  cope  with  her  children  and  professional
workload and to decompress at the end of the day. She further stated that she recently
submitted her security clearance paperwork and she said she intended to continue to use
marijuana gummies and smoke marijuana because she was under the impression it was
legal to do so. She stated that after conducting an internet search she learned the use of
marijuana was illegal under federal law which trumped state law. She said she made a
mistake  and  apologized.  She  stated  she  now  will  no  longer  use  marijuana  products
because it is illegal and puts her security clearance at risk. (Item 2)
Applicant did not provide a response to the FORM or any  information about her
marijuana use from 2011 until 2016 before it was legalized in her state, while holding a
security clearance, and after her SCI access was suspended or revoked in 2018 for failing
to disclose her prior use, which was discovered during a polygraph examination.
