In Applicant’s answer, he admitted some of the SOR Guideline J allegations, with
explanations, (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c, 1.e-1.f) and denied others (SOR ¶ 1.d). He admitted the
Guideline  G  allegations,  with  explanations,  consistent  with  his  Guideline  J  answers
(SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.c). His admissions are adopted as findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful review of the testimony, pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He married in 2021, after a 15-year courtship. He has
no children. He is currently employed by a government contractor, where he has worked
for approximately two years. He holds two associate degrees and a bachelor’s degree.
This is his first application for a security clearance. (Tr. 6, 20, 28; GE 1; AE K-L)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged Applicant was charged with alcohol-related
criminal offenses  on  six  occasions:  (1) in  November 2003,  he  was charged,  convicted
and  sentenced  for  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI);  (2)  in  March  2011,  he
was charged with DUI and refusal to take a chemical test for alcohol, for which he was
convicted and sentenced; (3) in August 2011, he was charged with DUI, which charge
was  dismissed;  (4)  In  December  2013,  he  was  charged  with  intoxication  and  criminal
trespass,  for  which  he  was  convicted  on  the  intoxication  charge  and  sentenced;  (5)  in
September 2017, he was charged with public intoxication, which charge was dismissed;
and (6)  in  June  2020, he  was  charged with  intoxication, which  charge  was reduced to
disorderly conduct as part of a plea in abeyance. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f)
Under Guideline  G, the SOR:  (1) cross-alleged  the  Guideline J allegations above;
(2) alleged that Applicant consumed  alcohol to  the  point  of intoxication,  at  various  times,
from   2003   to   September  2022;  and   (3)  alleged   that  he   was  court-ordered   to   attend
substance-abuse   outpatient  counseling   from   August   2011   to   about  February  2012.
(SOR ¶¶  2.a-2.c)
Applicant began drinking alcohol when he was 18 or 19 years old, in about 2001
to 2002. He did this to socialize with friends. Starting in about 2010, he would consume
about a six-pack of beer or a few shots at social gatherings. During this time, he would
typically  drink  to  intoxication.  He  would  become  intoxicated  after  drinking  four  to  six
beers,  or  three  glasses  of  wine.  He  became  louder  and  less  inhibited  when  he  was
intoxicated.  During  the  end  of  his  college  days  in  2015,  he  was  drinking  8-12  beers a
day, four to five days a week. In 2022, he was consuming one to  two glasses of wine
one to two times a week, and one to two bottles of wine over the weekend with his wife.
He testified that his current consumption of alcohol is “a few beers, here and there on
weekends with my wife.” (Tr. 20; GE 2)
The details of his arrests and alcohol consumption of concern follow:
June 2020  Intoxication Charge  (SOR ¶ 1.a)-Applicant had an argument with his
fiancée  (now  wife)  and  left  his  home  to  go  drink  at  a  bar.  During  his  statement  to  an
investigator,  he  claimed  he  drank  three  beers  and  two  shots  in  a  three-hour  period.
During his hearing testimony, he stated he drank five to six beers on that occasion. He
became loud and disruptive and the police were  called. He was arrested and taken to
jail,  where  he  was  released  the  next  day.  A  plea  agreement  was  reached  and  the
intoxication  charge  was  dismissed  and  he  pleaded  to  a  disorderly  conduct  charge,
which  was  held  in  abeyance  for  a  year.  He  completed  the  year  without  any  violations
and the disorderly charge was dismissed. (Tr. 33-34; GE 1-2; SOR answer; AE I)
September  2017   Intoxication  Charge   (SOR  ¶  1.b)-During  his  background
investigation,  Applicant  admitted  being  at  a  bar  from  about  10  pm  to  11  pm.  He
consumed  two  to  three  pitchers  of  beer.  He  left  the  bar  and  someone  from  the  bar
called the police registering a noise complaint. The police arrived and gave him a ride to
his  home.  He  was  later  cited  for  intoxication.  The  citation  was  dismissed  for  lack  of
evidence. (GE 2; SOR answer)
December   2013   Intoxication   and  Criminal  Trespass   (SOR   ¶  1.c)-During  his
background investigation, Applicant admitted that he had been drinking 8 to 10 beers at
his home when he decided to walk to a local store to purchase more beer. At the store,
he encountered people outside who he believed were selling drugs. He confronted the
people and eventually the police were called. When the police arrived, he was arrested
for being intoxicated. He pleaded no contest to the intoxication charge and the criminal
trespass  was  dismissed.  He  was  also  ordered  to  undergo  an  alcohol  evaluation.  He
participated in an evaluation in April 2014, and no program referral was recommended.
(GE 2; SOR answer; AE H)
August  2011   DUI   (SOR  ¶   1.d)-Applicant  denied  this  arrest  in  his  answer  and
there  is  no  discussion  of  this  incident  during  his  background  interview.  An  FBI  report
supports that this incident related back to his March 2011 arrest, infra, and was not an
independent charge. I find for Applicant on this allegation. (GE 2-3; SOR answer)
March 2011  DUI  and Refusal  of Chemical Testing  (SOR ¶ 1.e)-Applicant and a
friend went to a club in March 2011. Applicant drank several beers and had some shots
before  leaving  the  club.  Applicant  was  driving  and  was  stopped  immediately  upon
leaving  the parking  lot by  law  enforcement. Applicant  was  told  the reason for  the  stop
was because he spun his tires coming out of the parling lot. He refused a breathalyzer
test at the scene and was subsequently arrested on suspicion of DUI. Blood was later
drawn from him. The results of the blood test are not in the record. He was charged with
DUI and pleaded guilty to the charge  in July 2011. His other charges were dismissed.
The court treated this conviction as a second  DUI for sentencing purposes because of
his November 2003 DUI,  described  infra. He  was  sentenced to  180 days  jail  time, but
170 days were suspended. He was also sentenced to one year of probation, fined, and
ordered  to  attend  alcohol  counseling.  He  participated  in  a  group  alcohol  counseling
program from August 2011 to February 2012. No treatment records were made apart of
this hearing record. He provided two negative urinalysis tests that he took as part of the
counseling  program.  Applicant claims he  was  not  diagnosed  while in  the  program and
that no recommendations were made about his future alcohol consumption. (Tr. 23-24;
GE 2; SOR answer; AE E-G)
November  2003  DUI  (SOR ¶ 1.f)-At 1:30 am, Applicant was driving home from a
friend’s house where he had been drinking alcohol. He was under the legal age to drink
alcohol at  the  time.  His  car  was  stopped  by law  enforcement  for  a  traffic violation.  He
was  given  a  breathalyzer  test,  which  produced  a  result  of  .16  percent  blood  alcohol
content  which  is  over  the  legal  limit.  As  a  minor,  no  amount  of  alcohol  in  his  blood
system  is  permitted.  He  admitted  drinking  approximately  32  ounces  of  beer  at  the
gathering.  He  was  charged  with  DUI  and  pleaded  guilty  in  January  2004.  He  was
sentenced  to  30  days  jail  time,  suspended;  probation  for  one  year;  and  fined.  (GE  2;
SOR answer; AE D)
Applicant also testified that he has not attended any additional alcohol treatment
programs  other  than  described  supra.  He  also  claimed  that  he  abstains  from  drinking
alcohol  periodically  for  about  60  to  90  days  at  a  time,  but  no  specific  dates  were
provided. He did not provide any corroboration for these claimed periods of abstinence.
His  wife  provided  a  written  statement  and  claimed  that  he  “rarely  indulges  in  alcohol,
especially not to excess. . . .” He admitted that he last drank alcohol three weeks before
his  hearing  and  that  he  was  last  intoxicated  from  alcohol  between  one  and  two  years
ago  when  he  drank  a  few  beers  and  had  a  few  shots  of  whiskey.  His  background
investigator  noted  that  when  he  contacted  Applicant  in  early  2022  to  set  up  the
interview, Applicant told the investigator that he was finishing up his workday and was
working  on  his  second  bottle  of  wine.  He  was  working  from  home  that  day.  The
investigator noted the call was at 3:30 pm. At his hearing, Applicant testified that the call
was after his work hours, but he admitted drinking that much wine that day. He was not
disciplined for the incident by his employer. (Tr. 21, 26-28, 31, 36, 39-40, 47; GE 2; AE
V2-V3, V4)
Applicant  does  not  attend  Alcoholics  Anonymous  meetings  (AA).  He  does  not
believe that the AA program is a good fit for him. He relies on support from friends and
family to  refrain  from  making  alcohol-related  mistakes.  He  drinks alcohol less frequently
because   he   is  trying   to   live  a  healthier   lifestyle.   His  wife   “keeps   him   in  check.”   In
September through  October  2023, he  attended  six  counseling  sessions with  a  licensed
clinical social worker  (therapist). This counseling  was provided  through  his employment.
He admitted  the  sole  reason  he  sought this  counseling  was  due  to  having  this hearing.
The   therapist   provided   a   letter  stating   that   Applicant   is  doing   well  in   therapy.   He  also
stated  that he  was pleased  Applicant  made  the  decision  to  remain alcohol free. (Tr. 20-
21-22, 24-25, 37; AE  W)
Applicant presented six character letters from family, friends, a former coworker,
and his current team supervisor. They describe Applicant as intelligent, responsible, and
someone who is dedicated, hard-working, and trustworthy. Several commented how he
has  improved  himself  over  the  years.  His  current  supervisor  recommends  that  he  be
considered  for  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  also  provided  two  certificates  he  was
awarded. (AE M-N, P-S, U-V2-V3)
