Applicant admitted, in part, and denied,  in part, the allegation  in SOR ¶ 1.a. He
admitted  opening  the  checking  accounts  in  question  for  an  acquaintance;  but  denied
fraudulent behavior, as the acquaintance and his former spouse were divorced; and as
such, no information was hidden during a pending divorce. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  is  unmarried,
and has no children. (TR at page 6 line 18 to page 7 line 4, and at page 26 line 13 to
page 27 line 9.)
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
1.a. Applicant has a “side job” as a tennis coach. He admits that in November of
2015, more than eight years ago when he was 26 years old, he was approached by the
father  of  one  his  tennis  students  and  asked  for  a  personal  favor.  This  father  had  just
gone  through  a  divorce;  and  as  a  result,  was  suffering  some  financial  difficulties.  He
asked  Applicant  for  a  favor:  to  open  a  personal  checking  account  and  business
checking account, on behalf of the father and the father’s business, respectively, which
Applicant did. The father gave monies to Applicant to deposit in the personal account to
cover  the  father’s  monthly  rent  for a  new  apartment.  Other than  opening  the  business
account, however, Applicant had little to do with its transactions. (TR at page 18 line 7
to page 26 line 9, at page 28 line 2 to page 53 line 20, GX 2 at page 8, and AppX A.)
Applicant  became  suspicious  of  his  conduct  in  continuing  with  these  accounts,
and  sought  out  the  advice  of  his  own  father,  who  testified  at  Applicant’s  hearing,  and
who had pointed out the naivety of Applicant’s actions.  (TR at page 66 line 23 to page
73  line  21.)  In  October  of  2016,  more  than  seven  years  ago,  Applicant  declined
continuing  the  personal  account,  and  ceased  any  association  with  the  business
account. (TR at page 18 line 7 to page 26 line 9, and at page 28 line 2 to page 53 line
20.)
