Applicant  admitted  the  sole  allegation  in  the  SOR  (¶  1.a),  with  a  narrative
statement. His admission is incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 61 years old. He has been married since 2002 and has several prior
marriages.  His  children  are  grown.  He  served  as  an  enlisted  soldier  in  the  Army  from
1987  to  1988  when  he  was  discharged  after  he  was  injured  during  training.  He  later
served as a commissioned Army officer, from 2000 to 2003. He has a bachelor’s degree
(1996), a master’s degree (2003), and a doctoral degree (2007). (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 36-38,
52-53)
Applicant’s  professional  expertise
fields  of  public  health  and
epidemiology. Among other positions during his career, he worked as a health research
analyst for a major defense contractor from 2009 to 2011 and again from 2012 to 2017,
while holding a security clearance. He worked in public health and disease control for a
major  corporation  from  2017  to  2022.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  and
clearance sponsor since February 2022. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 54-55)
the
in
is
Applicant  had  back  surgeries  in  2008,  2012,  2018  (twice),  2019,  and  2020.  He
has  chronic  back  pain  that  has  long  eluded  effective  medical  treatment.  His  pain
management  doctors  recommended  prescription  opiates,  but  Applicant,  relying  in  part
on his own professional background, has been wary of taking opioids as painkillers due
to their addictive properties. (GE 2 at 4; Tr. 22-24)
Applicant lives in a state where marijuana use is approved for medical purposes.
In  February  2021,  he  applied  for  and  received  a  State  1  “Medical  Marijuana  Use
Registry”  identification  card.  His  registry  remains  valid  as  of  this  writing,  but  it  is  to
expire  within  weeks,  on  February  11,  2024.  (AE  J;  Tr.  24)  He  has  not  renewed  it  and
does not intend to do so. (Tr. 29)
Beginning in early 2021 (either February 2021 (GE 2 at 4) or late March or early
April  2021  (Tr.  39)),  Applicant  began  using  CBD  products  for  medical  purposes  to
alleviate his back pain, at the recommendation of his primary care physician. He said he
used one  “gummy”  every  night or every other night to help him sleep. He also used a
prescribed  topical  oil  or  balm  “applied  to  affected  areas  during  working  hours.”  The
products contained THC but he said they had only 0.2% THC content. (GE 2 at 4; Tr.
15-16, 24, 31-32;  Answer) He  said  in  his hearing  testimony  that  the  products  he  used
were CBD (cannabidiol) with a low amount of THC. (Tr. 55)
Post-hearing, Applicant submitted lab results for two of the THC gummy batches
he purchased. One batch, from February 2023, contained 0.079% THC, 0.077% CBD,
and  0.174%  total  cannabinoids.  A  second  batch,  from  June  2023,  contained  0.196%
THC, 0.424% CBD, and 0.662 total cannabinoids. (AE M, AE N
At  the  time  he  started  using  the  products,  Applicant  was  not  employed  in  the
defense  industry.  He did  not  disclose this  use  on his February 2022  SCA because he
did not believe his use was illegal. The “Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity” portion of
his SCA noted that:
The  following  questions  pertain  to  the  illegal  use  of  drugs  or  controlled
substances  or  drug  or  controlled  substance  activity  in  accordance  with
federal laws, even though permissible under state laws. (GE 1 at 34)
Applicant  voluntarily  disclosed  his  use  at  the  completion  of  his  background
interview,  on  March  28,  2022.  (GE  1,  GE  2  at  4;  Tr.  24,  34)  He  testified  that  the
interviewing  agent  told  him  that  his use  of  marijuana  was  illegal under  federal  law but
said use was being considered on a case-by-case basis. (Tr. 25, 41) He also said in his
interview that he was not aware that using the products would cause a problem with his
clearance. (GE 2 at 5) What the interviewer may have told him is not reflected in GE 2,
the interview summary. (Tr. 39-40) Applicant also testified that he promptly disclosed his
marijuana use to his employer’s facility security officer (FSO), Mr. S. He said Mr S. told
him  about  “the  guidance  not  being  exact  regarding  the  use  of  medical  marijuana  or
derivatives of cannabis.” (Tr. 25, 35)
After the hearing, Applicant provided the e-mail he sent to his FSO on March 29,
2022  (the  day  after  his  background  interview),  in  which  he  disclosed  his  medical
marijuana use. Days later, on April 4, 2022, his FSO advised him that he had forwarded
the  information  to  DOD,  and  as  a  result,  Applicant’s  interim  clearance  was  withdrawn.
He was also debriefed from access to classified information. (AE O, AE P)
In his e-mail to Applicant, his FSO said, in part,  “The investigation  [will] have to
run its course and be adjudicated before a final determination can be made.” Applicant
said he understood, and that, “[h]opefully the adjudication process will have a different
outcome.”  In  response,  the  FSO  said  he  himself  was  a  former  adjudicator,  and  that
“[e]verything is circumstantial now.” (AE P)
When   asked   during   his  hearing   why  he   continued   to   use   medical  marijuana   at
this point,  Applicant said  that this  was  because  of “the  guidance  not being  exact  on  how
medical  marijuana   usage   was  considered.  While   marijuana   itself  was  still   a   Schedule
One  substance,  there was not  clear guidance  on  products derived  from  marijuana.”  (Tr.
42) He cited  a memo from  the  Director  of National Intelligence  containing  “guidance  that
a  whole person  consideration  was to  be  made  in lieu  of just discounting  [sic] someone
for  marijuana  usage.  So, during  that time  I was letting  the  adjudication  process play out
to see  where  it landed.”  (Tr. 42-43)
In  June  2023,  Applicant  responded  to  a  interrogatory  from  the  DSCA  about  his
drug use. He answered YES to the following question:
1.  Do you currently illegally use any drugs or controlled substances?
Please  note:  marihuana  (marijuana)  and  extracts  of  marijuana  are
classified  as  Schedule  1  drugs  by  the  DEA  and  are  thus  illegal
federally.  Please  consider  all  forms  of  use,  such  as  cannabis  leaf,
flower,  kief,  hashish,  and  oil  (including  THC  and  CBD)  AND manners
of  use,  such  as  smoking,  inhaling  vapor,  infusing,  into  food  oils,  or
otherwise incorporated into food, applied topically or ingesting tincture,
or otherwise. (GE 3 at 3)
When asked for specifics, Applicant reported that he used 10 milligrams (mg) of
“Low-THC medical Marijuana,” that he did so “Daily,” most recently on June 8, 2023 (the
day  before  he  signed  the  interrogatory  response)  and  that  he  intended  “to  continue
future rate of illegal use.” (GE 3 at 4, 8) He explained that his use of medical marijuana
was  approved  by  his  state’s  “Office  of  Medical  Marijuana  Use”  following  examination
and review  of  his medical  records by a medical  doctor in April 2021  regarding chronic
pain  following  multiple  back  surgeries.  He  said  he  obtained  the  medication  from  a
licensed  dispensary  and  that  it  was  taken  orally  following  a  physician’s  direction.  He
said the marijuana relieves his back spasms and leaves him relaxed and drowsy. (GE 3
at 4-5, 9)
Applicant also acknowledged  that he understood that “marijuana remains  illegal
under  federal  law  and  that  any  future  use  of  marijuana  may  affect  your  security
clearance eligibility.” He nonetheless indicated that he intended “to illegally use drugs or
controlled substances in the future,” specifically, medical marijuana, to treat his chronic
pain, limited to “non-working times” as previously described. (GE 3 at 8)
In his testimony, Applicant said that he answered “Yes” because he had “learned
from the [interviewing] agent that any form of cannabis product is considered illegal.” He
also answered “Yes”  to “continued [future] use  since it still seemed that the content of
THC and medical direction were being, or might be, taken into consideration.” (Tr. 25)
Applicant  also  acknowledged  that  his  employer  had  a  drug  policy,  and  he
provided a copy of it. He signed each page of the policy. (GE 3 at 7, 10-15) During his
hearing, he said he found the policy online through his employer while responding to the
interrogatory. He said he had not been previously aware of it or been provided a copy of
it. (Tr. 43-45)
The  employer’s  “Drug-Free  Workplace  Policy”  notes  that  it  governs  the
company’s  compliance  with  the  federal  Drug-Free  Workplace  Act  of  1988.  It  includes
the following:
While the use of marijuana has been legalized under several state laws for
medicinal and/or recreational uses, it remains an illegal drug under federal
law,  and  its  use  as  it  impacts  the  workplace  is  prohibited  by  [company]
policy, and employees found to be in possession of or under the influence
of  alcohol  or  any  drug  may  be  subject  to  disciplinary  action  up  to  [and]
including termination. (GE 3 at 10)
The  company’s  policy  also  addresses  drug  and  alcohol  testing,  including  for
marijuana, based on reasonable suspicion, pre-employment drug testing for prospective
employees,  periodic  or  random  testing,  and  post-incident  testing.  (GE  3  at  11-12,  13)
Applicant said he was not required to participate in pre-employment drug testing before
he was hired. He said he has never been drug tested while employed there. (Tr. 32)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  has  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency
since  about  April  2021,  and  that  he  intends  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.
Applicant  answered  the  SOR  in  August  2023.  He  admitted  the  allegation  with  a
narrative  explanation. He  noted  that  he  “intend[s]  to  comply  with  the  National  Security
Adjudicative  Guidelines  and  will  consider  processes  to  obtain  approval  for  continued
use of medical cannabis.” (Answer)
On September 26, 2023, after he received Department Counsel’s discovery letter
(HE I), he provided a sworn statement of intent to immediately abstain from “marijuana,
medical  or  otherwise,  in  any  form.”  He  further  acknowledged  that  any  further
involvement  would  be  grounds  for  the  immediate  revocation  of  his  national  security
eligibility. (AE B; GE 4) He also said,
It  was  never  my  intent  to  disregard  any  laws  regarding  the  use  of
marijuana  and  I  had  wrongly  interpreted  the  issuance  of  a  medical
marijuana  card  in  [State  1]  to also  negate  any  federal prohibition against
the  use  of  marijuana  derivatives  for  that  purpose.  Now  that  I  have  that
clarification,  I  will  immediately  abstain  and  seek  out  other  treatment
options. (GE 4)
In later e-mails seeking a status update on his case, Applicant stated that he had
abstained  from  using  marijuana  in  any  form,  for  any  purpose,  as  of  September  24,
2023.  (GE  4)  He  confirmed  this  during  his  hearing  testimony,  and  said  he  intends  to
continue to abstain from any product derived from cannabis. (Tr. 26, 35, 39)
Since  June  2023,  Applicant  has
taken  prescription  medications,  under
appropriate  medical  supervision,  to  address  his  chronic  back  pain.  His  prescriptions
include  duloxetine  (Cymbalta),  lidocaine,  and  celecoxib  (Celebrex).  (Tr.  49-50,  53)  He
provided  photos  of  the  prescription  labels  after  the  hearing.  (AE  C,  AE  G,  H,  I)  along
with letters from his prescribing physicians. (AE K, AE L) He said his prescriptions have
proven “very effective” in managing his chronic pain. (Tr. 25, 34-35)
Applicant  testified  that while  his  marijuana  use  continued  after  he responded  to
the interrogatories in June 2023, he lessened his use so as  to wean himself off of the
marijuana, as he transitioned to  the prescription  pain medications. He continued using
marijuana  medicinally  until  September  24,  2023,  as  noted  above.  He  no  longer
possesses  any  THC  medications  or  gummies,  and  he  disposed  of  them  that  day.
Applicant specifically disavowed any future intent to “go back to using what I now know
to be a clearly illegal treatment.” Neither his wife nor his children use marijuana. (Tr. 29,
31, 46-49)
Applicant has never used marijuana or other illegal substance in the past except
in  this  circumstance.  (Tr.  39-40)  He  has  never  been  charged  with  any  drug-related  or
other  criminal  offense.  He  has  never  been  diagnosed  with  drug  abuse  or  drug
dependency. (Tr. 56)
When  asked  why  his  assertions  of  future  abstinence  should  be  considered
credible,  Applicant  said  he  has  “a  clearer  understanding  of  the  legalities  surrounding
products  derived  from  cannabis.”  He  said  he  has  strived  throughout  his  life  to
demonstrate respect for the law. He has a background in law enforcement and seeks to
be a role model for his children and grandchildren. (Tr. 51)
Applicant  provided  strong  character
from  several  personal  and
professional  references,  all  of  them  with  doctoral  degrees.  They  attested  that  he  is  a
dedicated  professional,  who  has  a  long  history  of  public  service.  They  wrote  that  he
demonstrates  the  utmost  integrity,  honesty,  sincerity,  and  ethical  conduct.  He  is
regarded  as  reliable  and  trustworthy,  and  his  references  recommend  him  for  security
clearance  eligibility.  (AE  D)  He  provided  annual  evaluations  noting  that  he  is  highly
effective and an expert in his field. (AE E)
letters
