The SOR alleges foreign influence security concerns based on Applicant’s friend
who is a citizen and resident of Israel. His friend works for an Israeli technology company,
and Applicant maintains regular contact with him. (SOR ¶ 1.a.) Applicant admitted, with
explanation, the single Guideline B allegation in his response to the SOR. After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 46-year-old citizen of the United States. He married in 1999, and he
and his wife have two children. He graduated in 1999 with a bachelor’s degree, followed
by a Master of Arts in history in 2001. He started his career in education where he served
as a public-school teacher for 15 years teaching U.S. history. He also was employed by
a  community  college  as  an  adjunct  professor  teaching  history  and  humanities.  In
approximately 2019, he left his career in education and began working in the computer
engineering  sector.  In  September  2021,  he  was  hired  by  his  current  employer,  a
government contractor. His job title is product growth architect. In April 2022 Applicant
was granted a Secret security clearance. His employer continues to  sponsor him for a
Top-Secret DOD security clearance. (SOR response; GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 18-22)
Foreign Influence
The SOR alleges security concerns based on Applicant’s friend, X, who is a citizen
and  resident  of  Israel.  Applicant  met  X  in  June  2017  during  a  personal  trip  he  took  to
Israel with his best friend. Applicant was hired by his best friend to work for a well-known
company  in  the  U.S.  as  a  consultant,  and  X  was  also  hired  as  a  consultant  for  the
company team located in Israel. Applicant mainly had work-related email communications
with X during the following year trying to navigate the bureaucracy of a 30,000-person
global corporation. (Tr. 23-25; SOR response)
Applicant would communicate with X via electronic messaging and occasionally by
telephone. The frequency was sporadic, about once or twice a month. He and his best
friend met X in Paris in 2018, and they met X in New York a few times for work-related
meetings. Between 2020 and 2023, Applicant and X were included in a total of 13 email
threads with other recipients, and they only exchanged one direct email message. Their
communications  have  only  been  social  in  nature  and  X  has  never  once  asked  for
information about Applicant’s current work for a government contractor. X now works for
a technology company in Israel, which was acquired by an American company in 2015.
Applicant did not possess a  security clearance  during  the  times  he  communicated  with  X,
and their  last direct electronic message  took place  in May  2020.  (SOR response; Tr. 28-
32)
Applicant voluntarily disclosed X on his June 2022 security clearance application.
In  early  2023,  Applicant  soon  realized  that  X  was  a  security  concern  during  his
background investigation, and he severed all communications with X. Whether or not his
security  clearance  is  granted,  Applicant  has  no  intention  of  reinitiating  contact  with  X.
(SOR response; Tr. 28-32; GE 1)
Character References:
Applicant submitted several letters of recommendation by friends, co-workers, and
colleagues. All the references recommended Applicant be granted a Top-Secret security
clearance because he is considered dedicated, trustworthy, and a loyal U.S. citizen. (AE
A-F)
Administrative Notice
I have taken administrative notice of the following facts concerning Israel:
Israel has forged close bilateral cooperation with the United States in many areas.
A 10-year bilateral military aid memorandum of understanding commits the United States
to provide Israel $3.3 billion in foreign military financing and spend $500 million annually
on joint missile defense programs from fiscal year 2019 to fiscal year 2028, subject to
congressional appropriations.
After elections held on November 1, 2022, for Israel’s parliament (Knesset), Likud
party  leader  Benjamin  Netanyahu  is  again  the  prime  minister,  a  post  he  held  twice
previously, from 1996 to 1999 and 2009 to 2021. The 2022 election was the fifth held in
Israel since a formal process began in December 2018 addressing corruption allegations
against Netanyahu. Two of the previous four elections did not result in the formation of a
government, and the other two resulted in short-lived coalition governments, a 2020 to
2021  government  with  Netanyahu  as  prime  minister,  and  a  2021  to  2022  government
without  him.  The  rise  of  the  ultra-nationalist  Religious  Zionism  faction  as  a  likely
Netanyahu  coalition  partner  has  triggered  debate  about  the  implications  for  Israel’s
democracy, its ability to manage tensions with Arabs and Palestinians, and its relations
with  the  United  States  and  other  countries.  Israel  has  experienced  an  unprecedented
period of political instability in recent years.
A March 6, 2023 travel warning issued by the U.S. Department of State for Israel
and  the  West  Bank,  urged  U.S.  travelers to  exercise  increased  caution  while  traveling
due to terrorism and civil unrest. The Department of State has issued a travel advisory
for  Gaza,  urging  U.S.  travelers  not  to  travel  due  to  terrorism,  civil  unrest,  and  armed
conflict.
Significant  human  rights  issues  in  2022  included  credible  reports  of  unlawful  or
arbitrary killings; arbitrary detention, often extraterritorial detention of Palestinians from
the  occupied  territories  in  Israel;  restrictions  on  Palestinians  residing  in  Jerusalem
including  arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with  privacy,  family,  and  home;  substantial
interference  with  the  freedom  of  association;  arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with
privacy;  harassment  of  nongovernmental  organizations;  significant  restrictions  on
freedom of movement within the country; violence against asylum seekers and irregular
migrants; violence or threats of violence against national, racial, or ethnic minority groups;
and labor rights abuses against foreign workers and Palestinians from the West Bank.
The U.S. Department of State advises that all persons seeking to enter or depart
Israel, the West Bank, or Gaza are subject to immigration and security screening, possibly
including prolonged questioning and physical searches, and may be denied entry or exit.
Some  U.S.  citizens  of  Arab  or  Muslim  heritage,  including  Palestinian-Americans,  have
experienced significant difficulties, unequal, and occasionally hostile treatment at Israel’s
borders and checkpoints. Israeli security officials have also on occasion requested access
to travelers’ personal e-mail accounts or other social media accounts as a condition of
entry. In such circumstances, travelers should have no expectation of privacy for any data
stored on such devices or in their accounts. (AN I)
