Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a. (HE 3) He also provided
mitigating information. (Id.)
Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  supervisor  and  avionics  technician,  who  has  been
employed by  a  large defense  contractor for seven  years. (Tr. 7, 9-10,  26) In  2001,  he
graduated from high school. (Tr. 7) In 2022, he received a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 7) He
held a security clearance from 2001 to 2014. (Tr. 24) His first marriage was from 2005 to
2013, and his current marriage  began in 2018. (Tr. 9) He has a  five-year-old daughter
and an 18-year-old son. (Tr. 9)
Applicant served in the Air Force  (AF) from 2001 to 2014; his  AF specialty was
COMSEC and Avionics Technician; he left active duty as a staff sergeant; and he received
an  honorable  discharge.  (Tr.  8)  Applicant  received  the  following  AF  awards:  AF
Commendation Medal; Meritorious Unit Award with 2 oak leaf clusters; AF Outstanding
Unit  Award  with  1  oak  leaf  cluster;  AF  Good  Conduct  Medal  with  3  oak  leaf  clusters;
National  Defense  Service  Medal;  Afghanistan  Campaign  Medal  with  2  service  stars;
Global War On Terrorism Expeditionary Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal;
Humanitarian Service Medal; AF Overseas Ribbon Short; AF Overseas Ribbon Long; AF
Expeditionary  Service  Ribbon  with  Gold  Border  with  1  oak  leaf  cluster;  AF  Longevity
Service with 2 oak leaf clusters; USAF NCO PME Graduate Ribbon; Small Arms Expert
Marksmanship Ribbon (Rifle); AF Training Ribbon; and NATO Medal with 1 service star.
(AE A) He did not receive any reprimands or nonjudicial punishment while in the Air Force.
(Tr. 26)
Alcohol Consumption  and Criminal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  under  Guideline  G  that  in  about  July  2022,  Applicant  was
arrested and charged with Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol (DUI). He pleaded guilty,
and in March 2023, he was sentenced to three years of probation and to attend six months
of first offender alcohol program. SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleged the conduct in SOR ¶ 1.a under
Guideline J.
Applicant does not have any other arrests or convictions. (Tr. 25, 27) No friends or
family have expressed a concern to him about his alcohol consumption. (Tr. 29) He rarely
consumed alcohol because his employer required him to work in a country that does not
permit alcohol use. (Tr. 30) When he consumed alcohol in July 2022, he had not had any
alcohol to drink for six months. (Tr. 31) He claimed he drank one beer and two hard drinks
in a bar. (Tr. 31, 36) His ticket for the DUI offense states he weighs 235 pounds; and he
said at the hearing he weighed about 300 pounds in July 2022. (Tr. 32; AE B)
Applicant left the bar about midnight, and he believed it was safe for him to drive.
(Tr. 32) He said he did not feel any effects from his previous alcohol consumption at the
time he left the bar. (Tr. 33) His hotel was about 15 miles from the bar. (Tr. 33) After about
five minutes, he felt ill, and he pulled over onto the side of the road. (Tr. 34) Applicant’s
vehicle was at an off ramp where truckers park, and the vehicle may have been slightly
over  the  line.  (Tr.  40)  He  felt  like  he  had  been  drugged  or  was  suffering  from  food
poisoning. (Tr. 34, 37) He felt it was unsafe to drive, and he fell asleep at about 1:00 a.m.
(Tr. 34, 41) He did not remember if he turned off the ignition of his vehicle. (Tr. 39-40) At
about 3:00 or 4:00 a.m., the police woke him. (Tr. 34, 41) He had a breath-alcohol test
(BAT) at the site of his arrest, and the officer said it showed he was over the legal limit;
however, he said he did not remember the BAT result. (Tr. 42) He received another BAT
at the police station, and the result was over the limit. He said he did not remember the
result of the second BAT.
Applicant told an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) investigator that he did
not receive a blood-alcohol test, and he could not remember the alcohol content for his
breathalyzer tests. (GE 2) Two weeks after his arrest, he returned to the foreign country
where he is employed. (Tr. 48) He returns to the United States about every six months to
be with his family.
Applicant  pleaded   guilty  to   DUI.   (Tr.  44)  He  received   three   years  of  informal
probation. (AE  D)  His probation  permits  him  to  drink alcohol.  (Id.) He was sentenced  to
pay fines  and  court costs of $1,545, and  to  attend  a  six-month  alcohol program. (Id.) The
six-month   alcohol  program   is  required   when   a   driver’s  blood-alcohol  content  (BAC)   is
“between  0.15% and  0.19%.” (HE  5) Applicant  believes he  can  successfully complete  the
three-year probation period, and the DUI conviction will be removed from his record. (Tr.
25) He is not permitted  to  drive  in the  state  where he  was arrested  for  DUI for three  years.
(Tr. 46) He  does not  have  a  probation  officer.  (Tr. 46)  He  acknowledged  that driving  after
drinking alcohol was “extremely stupid.” (Tr. 49)
Applicant provided court documents after his hearing which indicated his BAC was
.16 percent. (AE C at 5) He acknowledged it was not possible for a person who weighs
300  pounds  to  drink  three  drinks,  stop  drinking  about  1:00  a.m.,  and  provide  a  breath
sample several hours later to test above the legal limit. (Tr. 54-55) He stood by his claim
of only consuming three drinks. (Tr. 56)
On  June  27,  2023,  Appellant  completed  the  six-month  First  Offender  Alcohol
Program. (SOR response) He paid the fines and costs and completed all requirements of
his sentence except for the three years of informal probation.
In  response  to  a  question  on  January  23,  2024,  about  when  he  most  recently
consumed alcohol, he said:
Honestly,  I  do   not  remember  the   exact  date,  but  I   believe   it  was   holiday
season  of 2022  going  into  2023.  And  even  then  it was  only wine/champagne
to  celebrate  the  season. Since  the  event that had  happened  to  me  it has
been  a  real  eye  opener &  rude  awakening. I  have  since  refrained  &  been
trying  to  get healthier &  lose  weight.  Both  for my career &  for my children.
Being   overweight &   having   sleep   apnea   is bad   enough. You  add   alcohol
into the  mix it only heightens the risk for medical issues.  (AE  G)
Applicant’s  manager  served   with   him   in  Europe   when   they  were   both   on   active
duty and  supervises him in his current overseas employment. He  described  Applicant  as
follows:
During  the  time  I have  known Applicant  I could  always count on  him  to  get
the   job   done   and  done   right.   [He] gives 100%  in everything  he   does  and
makes  security of the  systems he  works a  priority.  He is  always willing  to  let
our  customer  know  what  the   requirements  are  and   ensures  we  are  in
compliance   with   all   requirements.   Please   consider  [him]   for  his  security
clearance.  (AE  E)
