Applicant is 61 years old.  She is married.  She completed the 11th grade in high
school in Mexico.  She holds the position of Quality Control.  She is seeking to obtain a
security clearance in connection with her employment with a defense contractor.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about
her reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified.
Applicant was hired by her current employer in December 2022.  She completed
a security clearance application on December 23, 2022.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
Applicant was previously employed with a defense contractor from 2012 through
June  2021.  She  worked  as  a  Semiconductor  Manufacturing  Technician.
It  was  her
responsibility  each  work  day  to  clock  in  with  her time  card  when  she  started  her  work
day, and to clock out with her time card when she finished her day.  In June 2021, she
was terminated from her employment for time card fraud.  Her employer determined that
she had falsely claimed approximately $11,620 of hours worked when she did not work
those  hours.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B.)  Applicant  denies  that  she  committed  time  card
fraud.  (Answer to SOR.)
At  some  point,  the  company  management  became  aware  of  discrepancies
between  the  Applicant’s  self-reported  time  records  and  other  evidence  of  her
attendance at work, and they conducted an investigation.  Using the company software
program,  called  Camstar,  which  tracks  the  movement  of  product  on  which  employees
are  working,  as  well  as  the  entry  door  badging  system  and  security  video  footage,  it
became  apparent  that  Applicant  was  recording  time  that  she  did  not  actually  work.
(Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
The  investigation  revealed  that Applicant recorded  9  hours of work on  each  of 11
days  in  2021,   (all   on   the   weekends)  for  which   there  is  no   evidence   that  she   either
badged  into  the  building  or moved  any product,  which  was her job.  Applicant was paid
for  those   11   days  (99   hours)   at   the   weekend   overtime   rate   of  $38.87   per  hour,   which
amounts  to  $3,847.64  for time  that she  did not  work.  Also on  weekdays, Applicant was
assigned   to   the   second   shift,   typically  arriving   for  work  at  2:00   p.m.   and   signing   out
between   11:30   p.m.   and   12:30   a.m.   (having   taken   an   earlier  dinner  break.)  Video
recording   from   cameras  at   the   building   exit   doors  showed   that  Applicant   regularly  left
the   facility  for  the   evening   about   2   hours  before  the   time   that   she   clocked   out  on   her
time   record.     Applicant’s  direct   manager  calculated   that   this   practice,  just   in   2021,
equated   to   about  $7,773.00   in  pay  for  unworked   time.     This  pay,   plus  the   pay  for  the
unworked weekends of $3,847.64  total approximately $11,620.  This was the amount  of
overpayment Applicant  received  that was caused  by her  intentionally recording  time that
she had  not actually worked.   (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant  was  confronted  by  company  management  about  her  time  card  fraud.
They  showed  her  the  time  sheets,  the  door  badging  data,  the  Camstar  logs,  and  the
pictures of her leaving earlier than she recorded as her quitting time.  Applicant stated
that she charged the hours to reimburse herself for her personal expenditures for food,
like pizza for employees on the second shift.  She stated that her previous supervisor
would give her $350 for such purchases.  Applicant admitted that no one since that last
manager authorized her to incur those costs.  Applicant stated that she decided on her
own to put extra time on her time card to reimburse herself.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant  was  placed  on  leave  without  pay.  She  was  subsequently  terminated
on  June  29,  2021.  Company  policy  set  forth  in  their  handbook  prohibits,  “altering,
falsifying, or tampering with time record, or recording time on another employee’s time
record  are  prohibited  and  may  result  in  disciplinary  action  up  to  and  including
termination  of  employment.”  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B.)  She  stated  that  the  Director  and
her Manager, quit the job about five months before she was terminated.
There  are   many   discrepancies   in   Applicant’s  testimony.     She   initially   denied
committing  time  card fraud.  (Answer to  SOR.)  Company records  indicate  that  she  put
extra   time   on   her  time   card   and   decided   on   her  own   to   do   it  to   reimburse   herself.
(Applicant’s   Exhibit  B.)     She   stated   that   she   had   approval  from   her  manager  to   leave
early  at  times,  to   work   overtime   if  she   needed   to,  and   to   reimburse   herself  for  money
she  spent on  others  for parties,  luncheons,  or other celebrations.   (Tr. p.  33-37  and  47-
48.)   She stated  that  she  did  not  reimburse  herself for these  expenses.  (Tr. p.  44)   She
stated that she  has never admitted to committing  time card fraud.   (Tr. p. 43)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  past  manager,  who  approved  her  time  cards  for  the
period  in  question,  and  who  left  the  company  the  month  before  Applicant  was
terminated, stated that there  was an equipment outage  that he remembers  one day in
May 2021, and he did allow employees to go home early.  On that occasion, he stated
that he encouraged the Applicant to mark her time card like everyone else.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit A.)
