After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  the  Government’s
exhibits,  I make  the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 32 years old, earned an Associate’s degree  in June 2014, and has
taken courses beyond that from August 2014 to July 2015. He has never married and has
a three-year-old daughter. Since April 2022, he has worked for a defense contractor. (Item
3.)
Under Guideline G, the SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) was arrested in June 2022
and charged with Driving Under the Influence; (2) entered a plea of nolo contendere to
Reckless Driving Involving Alcohol or Controlled Substance; (3) was sentenced  to one
day in jail; (4) to one year of probation (5) to complete DUI School and a Victim Awareness
Program, and (6) to perform 50 hours of community service. He was placed on probation
until December 2023. Those allegations were cross-pleaded under Guideline J. (Item 1.)
The charge was a misdemeanor and was his first offense. (Items 4 and 5.) He answered,
admitted all SOR allegations, and attached three supporting documents that are identified
as follows (Item 2):
Applicant’s  Exhibit  A  (AE  A)  –  State  DUI  and  Substance  Abuse
Program  Certificate  of  Completion  dated  August  19,  2022  (noting
“Counseling/Treatment was not required at Evaluation”);
AE  B – Basic Driver Improvement Course Certificate of Completion
dated February 2, 2023; and
AE C – Impact Panel Certificate of Completion dated July 11, 2022.
These  exhibits  being  part  of  Applicant’s  Answer,  they  are  already  part  of  the
record.
The  salient  portions  of  Applicant’s  August  17,  2023  Response  are  summarized
below:
On  June  18, 2022, I was unfortunately charged  with  a  DUI offense.
While  I deeply regret  this lapse  in  judgment,  I took full  responsibility for  my
time  of my situation  by  entering  a  plea. At the  time  of arrest,  I decided  not
to   partake   in   the   breath   test.   Years ago,  in   a   conversation   with   a   trusted
friend  of mine, who  is in local law enforcement,  advised  me  to  never do  the
Breathalyzer.  He  advised   if  I  were   ever  to   get   arrested   to   decline   the
breathalyzer and  all  field sobriety  test  [sic]. I  took that information  to  heart
and  remembered  it  at  the  time  of  my arrest. Declining  these  tests may  not
have  been  the  right decision, looking  back at my situation, but it was the
decision  made  with  the  information  I had  at  the  time.  I want to  assure  all
involved   that  this  is   an   isolated   incident   and   is   not  a   reflection   of   my
character, values, or commitment  to my responsibilities. I acknowledge  my
situation  and  charge  of  reckless  driving  with  alcohol.  It  was  not my  intention
to  mischaracterize  or mislead   about  my  charge.  Throughout  the   process,
my case  was referred  in  the  short phrase  of reckless driving. At no  time  do
I  downplay   my  case,
for  my  actions   while
acknowledging the seriousness of the offense.
take   responsibility
I
[In  this paragraph, Applicant summarizes the  steps he  has taken  to
satisfy   successfully  the   terms  of  his  sentence   during   the   seven   months
since  his arrest. He  attached  documents that  will  be  marked  and  identified
below as  additional Applicant exhibits.]
[In  this paragraph,  Applicant  recounts the  steps he  has taken  since
his arrest  not required  by  his sentence  to  become  more  health-conscious
and  adopt a  more healthy life-style.]
In his penultimate paragraph, Applicant states:
I understand  that holding  a  security clearance  requires  the  highest
level of trust, integrity,  and  responsibility.  I am  fully aware  of the  potential
implications of  my actions and am determined  to prove that I can  meet and
exceed  these  expectations. My professional record, including  . . . employee
of the  month, and  monthly distinction  performance  status, demonstrates my
commitment   to   excellence   and   my   ability  to   contribute   positively  and
endeavor  [sic].
Attached to Applicant’s Response was a multi-page document that I have marked
as  AE  D identified  as: County  Court payment  receipt  dated August  14, 2023,  showing
“Early  Termination  Is  Being  Proceeded.  No  Further  Apts.”  The  Response  has  been
admitted without objection.
Applicant’s two post-hearing documents are identified as follows:
AE E  – This is a duplicate of AE D.
AE   F  –   County  Court  Notice/Order  of  Completion  of  Probation
Conditions Eligible for Early Termination dated August 29, 2023.
These two exhibits are admitted without objection.
Applicant’s  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  was  conducted  on  September  20,
2022. The highlights are summarized below:
Applicant was driving  home  from  a  friend’s  house,  after having  one
beer. The  police  pulled  him  over  for  a  missing  license  plate  light. He was
asked  to  complete  an  in-field breathalyzer  test due  to  the  smell  of  alcohol,
which  he  declined.  He  was transported  to  the  sheriff’s office  and  held  for 12
hours.  He was  released  on  his  own  recognizance.  He  has  not received  a
court date  but was told  that  he  would  be  appearing  due  to  the  charge  of a
DUI.   He  believes  that   the   charge   for  DUI  is  a   misdemeanor.  He   has  not
been  given  any charge  information.  He  has  not been  to  court  yet.  This has
only happened once.  (Item 5.)
Law and Policies
It is well established that no one  has a right to a  security clearance. As the
Supreme Court has noted, “the clearly consistent standard indicates that security
determinations should  err, if they must,  on  the side of denials.”  Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
When   evaluating   an   applicant’s   suitability  for   a   security  clearance,   the
administrative judge  must consider the  adjudicative  guidelines. These  guidelines, which
are flexible  rules of law, apply together with  common  sense  and  the  general factors of the
whole-person  concept.  The  administrative  judge  must consider all  available and  reliable
information  about  the  person,  past and  present,  favorable and  unfavorable, in making  a
decision.  The   protection   of   the   national  security  is  the   paramount   consideration.   AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that   “[a]ny  doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted   facts   alleged   in   the   SOR.   Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.15,   the   applicant   is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by applicant or proven  by Department Counsel. . .  .” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
