Applicant is a 45-year-old employee of a DoD contractor. He has worked for a DoD
contractor since 2021. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army form 1996 –  2000. He
separated with an honorable discharge. He served in the Army National Guard from 2009
–  2015, separating with an honorable discharge. He has held security clearances in the
past.   His highest level  of education   is a   bachelor’s degree. He is widowed   and   has no
children He currently has a live-in partner. (Item 2; Item 3 at 9)
In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted to all of the SOR allegations. His
SOR admissions are incorporated as findings of fact. (Item 1) After a thorough review of
the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Guideline J –  Criminal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges:   On  January  27,  2020,  you  were  arrested  and  charged  with
Solicitation of a Prostitute, Disorderly Conduct, Attempting to Engage in Prostitution, and
Engaging  in  Prostitution.  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  Solicitation  of  a  Prostitute.  He  was
ordered to complete a Human Trafficking Course and to complete one year of supervised
probation. He completed a four-hour Prostitution Prevention Class on August 15, 2020.
(Item 1; Item 4; Item 5; Item 3 at 9)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges:  From  October  1998  to  January  2020,  Applicant  solicited
prostitutes with varying frequency, likely around 100 times total.  He estimates he solicited
and hired prostitutes approximately 100 times. (Item 3 at 6-7, 10)
On February 13, 2023, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator conducting
his  background  investigation.  During  the  background  investigation  interview,  he  was
questioned about his arrest for Solicitation of a Prostitute in January 2020. He responded
to an online advertisement from a woman. He was told by the woman to meet her at a
hotel.  His  intent  was  to  pay  the  woman  to  have  sexual  intercourse  with  him.  Once  he
arrived at the hotel, he texted the woman who provided him the room number where she
was  located.  He  agreed  to  spend  30  minutes  with  her.  As  he  was  taking  his  coat  off,
several  police  officers  came  into  the  room  and  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  the
offenses as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. He spent the night in jail and was released the following
morning. His girlfriend is aware of the arrest and is not very happy about it. In response
to  DOHA  interrogatories  dated  July  18,  2023,  Applicant  reviewed  a  summary  of  the
interview  and  indicated  that  he  found  it  to  be  accurate  after  adding  some  additional
information. (Item 3 at 6-10)
Applicant  told  the  background  investigator  that  he  searched  for  and  hired
prostitutes online approximately 3-4 times a year over the past 10 years. His late wife was
aware that he was hiring prostitutes during their marriage and was not pleased with his
conduct. He was looking for prostitutes because he was looking for a good time and he
wasn’t getting  what  he  needs at  home. He  understands  soliciting and hiring prostitutes
was illegal. He competed a human trafficking course which was required by his employer.
(Item 3 at 10) In his response to interrogatories, dated August 21, 2023, he estimates he
solicited and hired prostitutes approximately 100 times. (Item 3 at 6) In his Response to
the SOR, he claimed he took a break from soliciting prostitutes during the period of 2008
to early January 2020. (Item 1)
Applicant voluntarily sought counseling with a therapist who is an expert in sexual
problems. He met with the therapist once a week. The duration of the therapy sessions
is unclear. (Item 3 at 10) He did not provide more details about his therapy. He did not
obtain a letter from his therapist explaining the extent of the therapy and whether he made
progress during his therapy sessions.
Applicant has held a security clearance on and off since 2001. He indicated on his
January 2023 security clearance application that his security clearance was suspended
in May 2009 after a polygraph. He admitted during a post-polygraph interview that he had
conducted illegal activities in the past but has stopped the illegal activities. (Item 2 at 41-
44) In his August 2023 response to interrogatories, he mentioned the illegal activities he
disclosed during the post-polygraph interview was related to the solicitation and hiring of
prostitutes. (Item 3 at 7)
In his response to the SOR, Applicant indicates his probation was terminated after
one month because he had no prior arrests or convictions, and he promptly completed
his court-ordered human trafficking course.  He states he has not solicited prostitutes in
three and half years. He is in the process of requesting his arrest be expunged from his
records. He does not intend to solicit and hire prostitutes in the future. (Item 1, Response
to SOR)
