Applicant  is  37  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  one  young  child.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor
as  a  Lead  Electrical  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use involving marijuana and/or other THC
products from 2006 through July 2023.  He began using marijuana as a sophomore in
college in 2006.  In 2009, campus security caught him using marijuana and he got into
trouble.  In 2010, he applied for a job and was hired contingent on passing the drug test.
The  drug  test  involved  both  a  urine  test  and  a  hair  test.  Applicant  failed  the  hair  test
because marijuana was detected.  (Tr. p. 27, and Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  Applicant was
not  hired  by  the  company.  At  this  point,  Applicant  decided  to  move  to  California  for
more freedom, and where he could obtain marijuana, and have life be more lenient.  (Tr.
p. 28.)
Applicant  continued  to  use  marijuana  consistently,  with  varying  frequency,  from
daily, weekly, to monthly.
(Tr. p. 28.)  He was employed as an Electrical Engineer for
company A, from 2012 to 2016.  He does not recall if they had a drug policy, but they
did not drug test him.  In 2016, he began working for company B, a defense contractor,
as an Electronic Engineer.  He completed a security clearance application dated July 5,
2016.  The application asked  if in the past year he has used any illegal drugs, and he
responded,  “NO.”  This  response  was  not  truthful.  Applicant  was  subsequently  drug
tested  and  passed.  (Government  Exhibit  3.)  After  he  was  hired,  he  continued  using
marijuana with varying frequency.  (Tr. p. 30.)  He was aware of the company’s no drug
tolerance  policy.  (Tr.  p.  31.)  He  stated,  however,  that  the  way  he  sees  it,  he  never
used drugs at work or showed up under the influence of marijuana.  (Tr. p. 31.)
In  March  2022,  Applicant  began  working  for his  current  employer,  Company  C.
He believes that at the time he was hired, the company did not have a drug policy, but
they  later  established  one.  They  have  been  obtaining  Government  contracts  and
Applicant  was  required  to  apply  for  a  security  clearance.  He  completed  the  security
clearance  application  on  January  6,  2023.  He  underwent  a  voluntary  drug  test  on
December  5,  2023,  and  on  January  22,  2024,  and  the  results  were  negative.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  A,  and  Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  A.)  Despite  the  policy  at
Company C that prohibits all illegal drug use, Applicant continued to use marijuana and
last used it on July 15, 2023.  (Tr. p. 33, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
Applicant stated that he is now trying to be open and transparent about his past
use  of  marijuana.  In  September  2023,  he  discussed  the  situation  with  his  supervisor
and since then, he has taken the matter seriously.  He stated that despite his marijuana
use, he is trustworthy.  He realizes that he must not use marijuana in the future, and he
is ready to let it go forever.  (Tr. p. 41.)
Applicant submitted a Personal Summary, wherein he indicates that he will never
use  or  possess  any  type  of  illegal  drug  in  the  workplace  or  on  any  federal  land  or
property  and  will  refrain  from  using  any  type  of  these  illegal  drugs  or  substances
indefinitely, however, he does not acknowledge that any future involvement or misuse is
grounds  for revocation of national security eligibility.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
A.)  He also seems to qualify his non-use of illegal drugs to the workplace, or on federal
land or property, when Federal law prohibits the use of marijuana anywhere at any time.
