Applicant is 28 years old. He has never been married, and he does not have any
children. In 2018, he earned a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering. In August
2022, he completed a certificate of engineering leadership, and he is currently pursuing
a  master’s  degree in electrical and  computer engineering.  From April 2019 to October
2022, he worked for a government contractor as a systems engineer.  Since November
2022, he has worked for his current employer, also a government contractor, as a signal-
processing engineer. (Items 2, 3 and 4)
Drug  Involvement and Substance Misuse
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  had  used  and  purchased
marijuana from about November 2021 to about May 2022, after being granted access to
classified information by the DOD in 2019. (SOR ¶ 1.a) Applicant admitted the allegation,
and stated at the time he was living in a state where marijuana use was legal under state
law. He was not aware that the state law conflicted with federal law, and, in the context
of  DOD  security  clearances,  that  marijuana  use  was  considered  illegal.  He  purchased
marijuana from state licensed vendors, and he only used marijuana “a handful of times in
7 months.” He was working full time and attending graduate school, and he had difficulty
falling asleep, so he used marijuana as a sleep aid. After the school year ended in May
2022, he stopped his use of marijuana. Applicant has not used marijuana since May 2022,
and he provided a statement of intent to abstain from marijuana use in the future. (Items
1-3; AE A)
Personal Conduct
Due to Applicant’s ignorance of state and federal laws, he did not disclose his use
of  marijuana  on  the  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  he  completed  in  December
2022. (SOR ¶ 2.a) He denied that his omission was intentional falsification.  During his
January 2023 background interview, he was completely candid about his marijuana use
when questioned by an investigator. He stated that he did not realize that using marijuana
was wrong. He used marijuana once about every one to two months as a sleep aid, and
he purchased marijuana from a dispensary spending no more than $10. He decided to
stop using marijuana in May 2022 because he did not believe it was helping him with his
sleep issues and because he also did not like the way it made him feel. He has never
reported to work under the influence of marijuana, he is not dependent on marijuana, and
he has never been arrested or needed counseling for illegal drug use. (Items 2, 3 and 5)
Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  two  character  reference  letters  from  colleagues  who  have
worked with him in a government contractor employment setting. Both colleagues found
Applicant to be a person of unquestionable integrity, hardworking, and fully transparent.
They recommended Applicant be granted national security eligibility.
