Applicant  is  45  years  old.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Business.  He  is
employed by a defense contractor as a Personnel Security Officer II.  He is seeking to
obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  began  working  for  a  defense  contractor  in  October  2022.  He
completed  a  security  clearance  application  on  September  15,  2022.  He  has  never
applied for or held a security clearance before.
Applicant  has  an  extensive  history  of  illegal  drug  use.  He  admits  each  of  the
allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  He  admits  that  he  has  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency, from approximately September 1982 to at least March 2022.  He admits that
he used ecstasy/MDMA, with varying frequency, from approximately August 1996 to at
least September 2019.  He admits that he used LSD, with varying frequency, from 1999
to  at  least  August  2019.  He  admits  that  he used  Psilocybin  mushrooms,  with  varying
frequency,  from  1999  to  at  least  2022.  He  also  admits  that  he  used  cocaine,  with
varying frequency, from about 2003 to at least 2018.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant stated that he began using marijuana in high school.  He typically used
it  at  social  gatherings,  concerts,  or  just  to  relax.  He  remembers  that  there  would  be
several  months  to  years  between  his  usage.  After  high  school  and  in  his  30’s,  he
developed  migraines,  and  was  having  problems  sleeping.  Between  2013-2015,  he
obtained  a  marijuana  medical  card,  and  purchased  and  possessed  marijuana  through
the state approved dispensaries.  During this period he would only use marijuana about
two to four times per month.  Since 2018, he has only used marijuana sporadically.  His
use  has  gone  from  weekly  to  every  other  month  and  then  by  mid-2020,  he  stopped
using it regularly.  From 2020-2022, he used marijuana only a couple of times.  His last
use  of  marijuana  occurred  in  March  2022,  which  was  on  a  birthday  camping  trip.
(Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant has used MDMA on five separate occasions over a period of 23 years,
on a purely experimental basis.  He used it at social events, music events, and parties.
It was provided to him by friends at these events.  He last used MDMA at a New Years
Eve party on December 31, 2018.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant has used LSD on two occasions.  He first used it in 1999, and last used
it  in  August  2019.  He  explained  that  both  occasions,  the  use  was  experimental  in
nature, and occurred at a music concert and house party.  He stated that during his last
use of LSD in August 2019, he micro-dosed the drug so small that he experienced no
high or mind effect at all.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant has used Psilocybin mushrooms three times to feel the high effects of
this  mind-altering  drug.  He  used  it  in  an  intimate  controlled  situation,  at  a  house  or
while camping with friends.  He last used psilocybin mushrooms in June 2022.  (Tr. p.
24.)
Applicant  has  also  used  cocaine  on  five  occasions.  The  majority  of  this  use
occurred  between  the  ages  of  25-35  (3  times)  and  then  in  2016  and  2019.  He  used
cocaine either at house parties or at a New Years Eve party where it was offered to him
and not purchased.  He did not like the effects of the drug.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant  explained  that  in  November  2017,  he  had  a  major  medical  problem
occur resulting from a chiropractic adjustment.  The injury caused recurrent  stroke-like
symptoms  over  a  period  of  five  days  resulting  in  a  life-saving  surgery.  Post-surgery,
Applicant  had  an  actual  stroke  that  left  him  physically  debilitated.  He  was  diagnosed
with PTSD and general anxiety due to this traumatic life changing event.  The results of
the stroke also caused speech issues, an inability to walk and difficulty with fine motor
skills.  Applicant had to learn these things all over again.  He was not sure if he would
ever be employable again.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B, and Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
During his first year and a half of recovery, he experimented more than he ever
had.  Applicant researched several drugs to find that Psilocybin is a positive and proven
use  to  treat  PTSD  and  trauma,  and  traumatic  brain  injuries.  He  also  discovered  that
psychedelics  have been effective for depression, PTSD, and  anxiety.  As he  began to
improve,  and  with  the  help  of  occupational,  speech,  and  physical  therapy,  he  was
eventually able to rejoin the work force in 2020.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
When  Applicant  applied  for  a  security  clearance  in  September  2022,  he  listed
that his last use of marijuana was in April 2020.  He continued to use marijuana and last
used it in March 2022.  He also used psilocybin mushrooms as recently as June 2022.
(Tr. pp.  32-33.)
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  of  intent  dated  January  9,  2024,  indicating  that  he
has  no  intent  to  use  any  “drug  or  substance”  with  the  punishment  to  be  automatic
revocation  of  his  security  clearance.  He  did  not  reference  the  fact  that  the  drug  or
substance  he  is  referring  to  in  this  letter  refer  to  those  drugs  or  substances  that  are
illegal, however, it will be assumed.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
Several witnesses from the company testified on Applicant’s behalf, including the
Director of Security, the Manager of Industrial Security, and a close friend who works for
the same company.  Collectively, they consider Applicant to be honest and trustworthy
and  describe  him  as  an  upstanding  person.  They  recommend  him  for  a  security
clearance.  (Tr. pp. 16- 50.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  the  Director  of  Security,  the  Manager  of
Security,  the  Deputy  Manager  of  Industrial  Security,  the  Lead  Contractor  Special
Security  Officer,  the  Lead  Personnel  Security  Specialist,  his  neighbor  who  is  a  retired
Sheriff Deputy, a retired government Division Chief for a City Attorney’s Office, and his
best friend since first grade, all attest to Applicant’s honesty and trustworthiness.  They
collectively  recognize  Applicant  as  a  man  of  integrity  who  is  dependable  and
conscientious and an asset to the company.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
