Applicant  admitted  the  five  allegations  in  the  SOR  (¶¶  1.a-1.e),  with  a  narrative
statement. I have incorporated his admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. He and his wife have been married since 2015. They
have three young children. Applicant has a bachelor’s degree and has additional credits
towards  a  master’s  degree.  He  has  been  employed  with  the  same  large  defense
contractor,  Company  A,  with  a  clearance,  since  April  2001.  He  is  currently  a  senior
manager. He provided numerous awards and work evaluations. (Tr. 8, 106-113, GE 1;
AE A; Att. 1-5)
Applicant first consumed alcohol at age 14 or 15. His drinking increased in his 20’s,
and occurred mostly on weekends with friends. He drank to excess at times during this
period, but he did not believe he had a drinking problem. On two occasions in fall 2005,
Applicant  was arrested  and charged with driving under the influence. Both occurred in
State  1,  where  he  lived  at  the  time,  and  occurred  shortly  after  the  end  of  a  long-term
relationship. (AE A; Tr. 114-116, 148-149)
In September 2005, Applicant went out with work friends. He had a few beers at
someone’s home. He left his car there while they all went out to bars in a nearby city. At
the end of the evening, Applicant retrieved his car and began to drive home, believing he
was sober enough to do so. However, on the way home, he also stopped for coffee so he
could sober up. He sat in his car in the coffee shop parking lot for 45 minutes. A nearby
security guard thought he was acting suspiciously and called police. The officer saw him
move his car out of a “no parking” fire zone. Applicant told the officer he had been drinking.
He was arrested and charged with DUI after failing roadside sobriety tests. Breathalyzers
at  the  police  station  revealed  a  blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  of  0.17%.  He  was  jailed
overnight. He reported the incident to his employer’s security office days later and kept
them informed. (AE A) (SOR ¶ 1.d)
A  month  later,  in  October  2005,  Applicant  attended  a  concert  in  another  city  in
State 1, where he lived. He then went to a bar and consumed four alcoholic beverages in
four hours. He again attempted to drive home, and soon realized it was unsafe to do so,
in part because it was rainy. He pulled over on the highway and was walking to a nearby
convenience store to call a taxi when police arrived, having seen his parked car on the
roadside. He acknowledged he had been driving the car, failed the sobriety tests, blew a
0.15% BAC on the breathalyzer, and was arrested for DUI. (AE A) (SOR ¶ 1.c)
Both of Applicant’s 2005 DUIs were adjudicated together and he was found guilty
on both charges, in about September 2006. His license was suspended for two years, he
was ordered to attend 48 hours of alcohol education classes and to perform 30 hours of
community service. He was also fined and ordered to pay court costs. He attended one
required Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) class. He completed all requirements. He reported
both arrests to security. (AE A, Att. 6-7; Tr. 114-117, 124)
Applicant had no other alcohol-related incidents or offenses for the next 10 years.
During this period, He admitted that he drank too much on weekends, but he denied any
driving after consuming alcohol. During this period, he met and began dating his wife. (AE
A; Tr. 117)
In April 2015, Applicant and his wife, then his fiancée, were living and working in
State 2. He went to a neighborhood bar with friends. He consumed three or four beers
during the evening. While paying his bar tab at the end of the evening, he was approached
by  another  bar  patron,  who  confronted  him  and  demanded  that  he  leave  the  bar
immediately. After paying his tab. Applicant left the bar and saw the other patron talking
to  a  uniformed  police  officer.  Applicant  was  then  arrested  and  taken  to  a  local  police
station. He spent the night in jail. He only learned later that he was charged with public
intoxication. When he went court two months later, the arresting officer failed to appear,
and the charge was dismissed. He reported the offense on his next SCA, completed in
July 2018. He testified that he was embarrassed and regretful about the incident and he
was not proud of it, particularly because it occurred a month  before his wedding. (GE 1;
AE A; Tr. 118-119, 124-125) (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Applicant and his wife moved to State 3 for work in 2016. (GE 1) Between 2015
and  2020,  as  they  began  to  raise  a  family,  Applicant  drank  at  happy  hours  and  on
weekend nights. (AE A) He stopped drinking hard alcohol and would mostly drink wine
with  his  wife.  He  acknowledged  uncomfortable  conversations  with  his  wife  about  his
drinking, including whether he should stop. As his wife testified, he acknowledged drinking
wine after she went to bed -- “one or two at least.” He acknowledged drinking a bottle of
wine on the weekends. (Tr. 119-121, 150-151)
On Friday, March 13, 2020, Applicant went to a happy hour with co-workers after
work.  He  had  not  eaten  lunch.  He  consumed  several glasses  of wine,  without  food  or
water,  between  about  3  PM  and  8  PM.  He  was  pulled  over  for  speeding.  He  failed
roadside sobriety tests and a breathalyzer registered a 0.238% BAC. He was arrested
and charged with DUI. (GE 1. GE 2, GE 3, GE 4; AE A; Att. 8; Tr. 121, 152-153) (SOR ¶
1.a)
Applicant promptly disclosed the matter to his supervisor (Ms. F, discussed below)
and reported it to security. (Tr. 125) With the strong urging of his wife and family over the
next several days, he also decided to seek treatment. (Tr. 126)
On or about March 18, 2020, only days after his arrest, Applicant entered treatment
at Treatment Center B. He was diagnosed with severe alcohol use disorder. (GE 4 at 10)
He remained in inpatient treatment for 37 days, and continued with outpatient treatment
until May 26, 2020, when he was discharged successfully. (GE 4 at 17-18; AE A, Att. 11,
Att. 12; Tr. 127) (SOR ¶ 1.e)
Documentation   reflects  that,   on   intake   at  Treatment  Center  B,  Applicant  was
regarded   as  cooperative   and   well-spoken   but  he   also  minimized   and   disregarded   the
consequences   of   his  drinking   and   appeared   to   justify   his  conduct.   He   presented   for
treatment after his third  DUI and  recognized  the  consequences facing  him  (losing  his job,
losing   his  license,  and   going   to   jail).  (GE  4   at  1)  He  reported   that  he   drove   while
intoxicated,  cared   for his children   while under the   influence, and  had  driven   with   them
while  under  the   influence.  In   his  hearing   testimony,  he   acknowledged   that   there  were
probably other times when  he  drove  while   “over the  limit” but denied  driving   under the
influence   with   his  children.   (Tr.  128-129,154,  173-174)  He  reported   blackouts,   loss  of
recollection,  missing  work, and  showing  up  to  work hung  over.  He explained  in  testimony
that he  was  sometimes  late  to  work because  he  did not have  a  driver’s license  but denied
any other alcohol-related work issues.  He denied blackouts. (Tr. 127-128, 149-150, 155)
He noted  a  family history of alcohol abuse  and  recognized  his disregard for his own well-
being  and  the  damage  alcohol was  doing  to  his health.  (GE 4  at 5) He  reported  beginning
drinking  in  his teens with  no  significant  periods of  sobriety.  He  reported  consuming  two
bottles   of  wine   over the   previous   19   days.   (GE 4   at 6,   13)   He  reported   struggling   with
cravings and  an  inability to  stop  drinking. (GE  4  at 12) He presented  with  at least mild
signs and  symptoms of withdrawal or imminent withdrawal. (GE 4  at 9) He testified  that
he   was  placed   on   withdrawal  medication   on   intake   but  said  this   was  required   as  a
standard precaution. (Tr. 129-131, 174)
Applicant  was  discharged  from  inpatient  treatment  in  mid-April  2020  and  was
discharged from the outpatient program on May 26, 2020. He was regarded as compliant
and cooperative throughout the process. He learned coping skills, the disease model of
addiction, a 12-step recovery program, and family systems. He was in a 12-step program
and private therapy and would continue both. “His prognosis at this time is positive and
good. He has support outlets and is honest with his family and friends.” (GE 4 at 19) He
was  advised  to  pursue  individual  therapy  and  to  return  to  Treatment  Center  B  should
relapse occur. He reported being committed to his recovery. (GE 4 at 19) (Tr. 131-133,
135-137)
In July 2020, Applicant pleaded guilty to DUI for his March 2020 offense. He was
sentenced  to  one  year  of  supervised  probation.  He  was  also  ordered  to  complete
community  service,  attend  a  DUI  education  class,  substance  abuse  treatment,  and  a
victim awareness course. He was fined and ordered to pay court costs. His probation was
terminated several months early (and successfully), in July 2021. He also said he was not
allowed to drive. By then, his office was working remotely due to the pandemic.  (GE 1,
GE 2, GE 3; AE A, Att. 9, Att. 10; Tr. 167-168, 172-173)
As  recommended,  Applicant  continued   meeting   with   the   Treatment  Center  B’s
“alumni”  group,  both  locally and  virtually, from  about April 2020  to  April 2021. (Tr. 162-
164)  He   also  immediately  joined   Alcoholics  Anonymous   (AA).   He  attended   90   AA
sessions in 90  days.  He then  attended  three  to  five  meetings  a  week for the  next 18-24
months  (either in-person  or online, due  to  COVID pandemic restrictions). He has had  an
AA  sponsor ever since,  including  his current  sponsor, Mr. X  (discussed  below), and  others
before  him.  He  now  attends  between   one   and   three   AA   meetings  a   week.  He  gets
significant  value  from  the  experiences  of  his  sponsors. (AE  A,  Att.  13; Tr.  133-135, 137-
143, 164-166) He acknowledged  that his daily AA  meetings often  put  a  strain on  his wife,
since  the  meetings were often  in  the evenings, as  she  was  coming home from work.  (Tr.
156-157)
Applicant has not consumed any alcohol since March 14, 2020, more than three
years and seven months before his October 2023 DOHA hearing. (AE A; Tr. 127) He has
had  no  further  arrests.  (Tr.  159)  He  has  also  pursued  a  healthier  lifestyle,  including
exercise, gardening, outdoor nature hobbies, and spending time with his wife and young
sons.  (Tr.  143-145)  He  acknowledged  that  he  came  to  the  realization  that  he  had  to
change his life. “Being an alcoholic, alcohol was like a second job;” hiding how much he
drank and arguing with his wife or family about his drinking. He does not do that anymore.
He prefers to spend time with his family. (Tr. 158-159) Applicant is very confident about
his  ability  to  maintain  sobriety  going  forward.  He  loves  his  job  and  the  role  he  plays
supporting national defense. (Tr. 146-147)
At  the  time  of  his  hearing,  Applicant  had  not  had  a  subsequent  or  updated
assessment  or  diagnoses  since  his  diagnosis  of  severe  alcohol  abuse  disorder  at
Treatment Center B in 2020. (Tr. 160) (See AE B, below) Applicant said he intended to
continue working through the steps of AA, and ultimately to sponsor new members. It has
made   him   “a  better  person,  a   better  father,   a   better  husband,”  and   better  at  work.  He
believes  AA  saved  his life. He  has been  humbled  by  the experience  of  the  DUI  and  the
clearance  hearing process. He loves his job  and  hopes  for the opportunity to  continue  in
his career as  a  cleared  employee. (Tr. 171-172) He is not currently in  other counseling  or
therapy. He has had a  driver’s license without restrictions for about two years. (Tr. 166)
Applicant’s  wife  is  an  18-year  cleared  employee  at  Company  A.  She  holds  a
bachelor’s  degree  and  dual  master’s  degrees.  They  met  through  work  in  about  2008,
began dating in 2011, moved to State 2 together for work in 2013, and married in 2015.
They have three boys all under age six, including a toddler. (Tr. 42-46, 87-88)
Applicant’s  wife   is not  a   big  drinker.   He drank  but not  more   than   others  did. He
became  more  family oriented  after the  birth  of their  first child. Beginning  in about 2017-
2018,  she   became   more  concerned   about  his  drinking.   This  was   a   hard  time   in   their
marriage. She  loves  him  and  does not  want him  to  hurt  himself but  he  said  at the  time
that  he  did not  want  to  be  controlled. Incidents where  he  drank  too  much  were  sporadic
and  often  months apart. They had  conversations about his drinking  level but little changed
during this period. (Tr. 42-52)
After their children were born (2017-2018), Applicant’s drinking pattern would be
to drink at home, since they did not go out much. She believes he would drink after she
went to bed. He would drink wine with dinner and would drink on weekends. She is not
aware that he ever went to work late or missed work. He never drove with their children
after consuming alcohol. Drinking was social and to relieve stress. (Tr. 72-82)
After Applicant was arrested in March 2020, his wife was upset. His parents and
her  mother  came  immediately  to  help.  The  family  talked  and  decided  that  Applicant
needed to get help. They researched rehabilitation facilities and he left for inpatient rehab
almost immediately. Previously, Applicant had resisted seeking treatment and was initially
resistant again due to his family and work responsibilities but agreed to enter treatment
voluntarily. His manager was very supportive. (Tr. 52-60 and 77-78)
Applicant’s wife said the family had little contact with him while he was in inpatient
treatment, only a few calls.  When he came home, he  had changed and become more
reserved,  rather than  being  “happy-go-lucky”  as  before.  After several more months  he
began to see life without drinking. It took a year for his wife to feel comfortable having a
drink with dinner. She wanted to be supportive of his sobriety. She now feels they have
developed confidence and trust that he will not drink and she does not think about him
“falling off the wagon.” She said he treated his sobriety as his number one priority because
“if I don’t do this, everything falls apart.” They did couples counseling as part of Applicant’s
after-care  program,  for  six  to  nine  months  as  recommended  and  some  individual
counseling. He has been actively involved in AA and is working with his sponsor. He now
has new hobbies and pastimes, like gardening. He has maintained sobriety since March
2020. They do not keep hard alcohol or beer in the house and she tracks the limited wine
that they have. They socialize as a family and Applicant will separate himself from work
social events where alcohol is present. (Tr. 61-69, 78-81)
Applicant’s  wife  said  he  prioritizes  his  sobriety  now  but  it  is  less  of  a  delicate
balance with family needs (compared with the immediate aftermath of treatment, due to
his daily AA meetings). He is a very good father and husband. He is actively involved with
their children. Their marriage and children mean a lot to him. He has tried “really, really,
hard” working on rehabilitation and sobriety. He is proud of his work and his support of
the country. (Tr. 83-87) Applicant’s parents also provided strong recommendation letters
for their son, which I read and closely considered. (AE A, Att. 17, 18)
Mr. X, Applicant’s AA sponsor is also a cleared employee in the field of aviation.
He has been a member of AA for almost 40 years. They met through AA about two years
ago and he agreed to become his sponsor a few months later. They see each other at
weekly AA meetings, speak by phone between meetings about once a week, and meet
occasionally for lunch. Mr. X attested that Applicant is doing well in AA, and that his AA
participation  and  efforts  at  rehabilitation  are  “on  par”  with  someone  maintaining
continuous  sobriety:  “If  he  keeps  doing  what  he’s  doing,  he’ll  keep  getting  what  he’s
getting.” Mr. X has seen no  concerning behavior suggesting  relapse. Applicant has not
expressed any urges to drink, and Mr. X has not known him to have done so. Applicant
is  on  Step  8  of  the  12  AA  recovery  steps  (willingness  to  make  amends).  (Tr.  24-40)
Several  other  participants  from  AA  and  Treatment  Center  B  provided  similar,  strong
recommendation letters, which I read and closely reviewed. (AE A, Att. 14, 15, 16, 19)
Applicant’s character witness, Ms.  F, is a  veteran and longtime employee of the
aerospace  and  defense  industry.  She  graduated  from  a  service  academy,  was
commissioned as an active-duty military intelligence officer for several years, earned a
master’s  degree,  and  joined  the  defense  industry  in  2001.  She  is  currently  a  vice
president. She has held a clearance for many years. (Tr. (91-93)
Ms. F. was Applicant’s  supervisor for about three  and  a  half  years,  from  2019  to
mid-2023   when   she   left  the   company.  They  generally  had   very  close   and   continuing
professional  contact,  though   it  diminished   during   the   COVID  pandemic  due   to   remote
working  (which,  by coincidence, began  right after Applicant’s March 2020  DUI). (Tr. 93-
94, 97-98, 101-104)  She testified that Applicant was an  extremely reliable employee and
a creative and strategic thinker, a leader and  a subject matter expert. (Tr. 93-95)
Applicant informed Ms. F of his 2020 DUI within days afterward and that he was
entering  alcohol  rehabilitation.  Before  then,  she  had  no  concerns  about  his  work
performance, judgment, trustworthiness, reliability, or clearance eligibility and she has no
such concerns now. (Tr. 95-96, 99-104) She credits him with disclosing the matter, taking
it seriously, and taking concrete steps to change his behavior. (Tr. 99-100)
After  the  hearing,  Applicant  participated  in  an  updated  substance  abuse
evaluation, conducted by a licensed mental health counselor (LMHC), Mr. M. The report
was  based  on  a  two-hour  evaluation  and  interview  of  Applicant.  Mr.  M  assessed  that
Applicant  met  the  full  criteria  for  a  provisional  diagnosis  of  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  in
Sustained  Remission,  code  F10.21  of  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of  Mental
Disorders  5  –  Text  Revision  (DSM-5-TR).  He  was  given  a  fair  prognosis,  given  his
“extensive history with alcohol” and current ability to provide adequate evidence of how
he is maintaining and managing his substance abuse. This included “collateral” evidence
such  as  professional  recommendations  by  peers  and  supervisors,  evaluation  of  job
performance,  evaluation  of  his  support  system,  12-step  program  attendance,
accountability check-ins with a sponsor and other factors. A higher level of care was not
recommended.  “It  is  highly  recommended  that  the  client  continue  to  utilize  support
systems and protective measures set in place that may influence his ability to maintain
sobriety.” Mr. M did not see a concern about alcohol impacting Applicant’s work or limiting
his workplace abilities. (AE B)
