In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 4.c, 4.d, 4.h,
4.i, 4.j, 4.l, 4.m, and 4.n with clarifications. He denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a,
2.b,  2.c,  3.a,  4.a,  4.b,  4.e,  4.f,  4.g,  4.k,  and  4.o.  (HE  3)  He  also  provided  mitigating
information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant  is  a  51-year-old  aircraft  mechanic  who  has  worked  for  a  government
contractor in that position for almost six years. (Tr. 7, 10, 34) In 1991, he graduated from
high school. (Tr. 7) He served in the Navy from 1993 to 2013; his specialty was avionics
technician; and he honorably retired as a chief petty officer. (Tr. 8; SOR response) He
has a 100 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). (Tr. 8)
Seventy  percent  of  his  disability  rating  is  for  bipolar  disorder.  (Tr.  8,  60)  In  2018,  he
received a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 8)
Applicant’s first marriage was from 2000 to September 2011. (Tr. 9) In March 2012,
he  married  Ms. G;  however, he  said  he  has  not  seen  Ms.  G  since  June  of  2013. (Tr. 9)
He was unsure whether Ms. G  had  filed  for divorce.  (Tr. 9, 36) He  did not take  any action
to obtain a divorce. (Tr. 37) He believed she  has been with  another man since 2016. (Tr.
9)  He has two children with his first wife who are ages 11 and 23, and he said he did not
have  any children with  Ms. G. (Tr. 9-10, 38)
Personal Conduct
Foreign  Influence
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  is married  to  Ms.  G,  who  a  citizen and  resident of
Peru. He repeatedly and deliberately failed to disclose this relationship to the government,
as  required.  SOR  ¶  4.b  alleges  he  failed  to  disclose  his  intimate  relationship  with  a
Peruvian national (Ms. G) to his command while enlisted in the Navy.
In July 2010, Applicant met Ms. G when he was in Peru. (Tr. 41)  In September
2012,  he  informed  the  Navy  of  his  marriage  to  Ms.  G.  (Tr.  21-22)  The  marriage  was
documented in his Navy personnel records. (Tr. 35, 53; SOR response, Attach. 2)
The last time Applicant was in Peru was in 2013, and the last time he saw Ms. G
was in 2013. (Tr. 38-40) He did not communicate with her from 2016 to 2018. (Tr. 29-40)
From about 2018 to 2021, he talked to her about twice a week, and the last time he talked
to her was in 2021. (Tr. 39-41) He denied her requests for funds during the 2018 to 2021
time period. (Tr. 41)
Psychological Conditions
SOR ¶  2.a  alleges on  March 9, 2021, Dr. E, a  psychologist, evaluated  Applicant
and  concluded  he  had  “demonstrated  a  pattern  of rule-violating  behavior, poor judgment,
and  dishonesty that could reasonably and  significantly diminish  his trustworthiness and
judgment in a national security context.”
Dr. E evaluated Applicant as requested by the DOD Consolidated Adjudications
Facility  (CAF),  which  is  the  predecessor  organization  for  the  DCSA  CAS.  (GE  4)  He
diagnosed  Applicant  with  Bipolar  I  Disorder,  severe,  in  partial  remission,  most  recent
episode  manic;  Other  Specified  Anxiety  Disorder  (with  symptoms  of  agoraphobia  and
panic); and Alcohol Use Disorder, moderate, in sustained remission. (Id. at 7) Dr. E listed
the materials he considered for his evaluation of Applicant; however, he did not mention
consideration of VA treatment records or other recent records of mental-health treatment.
Dr. E provided a detailed description of Applicant’s mental health and professional history,
which  was  primarily  based  on  Applicant’s  statements,  the  Naval  Criminal  Investigative
Service  (NCIS)  report,  and  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  interviews.  Dr.  E
concluded:
[Applicant]  went  on  trips to  Peru  with  the  attitude  of “Screw  it! What  are they
going  to  do  to  me?” His view is that all  the  allegations pertaining  to  him  lying
about various matters were “trumped  up stuff.”
It   is  possible  that  [Applicant’s]  command   was  not  supportive   of  him   and
developed   a   negative   view  of  him   due   to   his  medical  and   behavioral
problems. However, based  on  the  totality of the  information  available to  me,
my impression  is that [he] is [a] person  who  is willing  to  violate  rules if he
believes he  can  do  so  without being  discovered  and  if doing  so  helps him
attain an  objective. If  he  is discovered, he  seems to  be  a  person  who  adopts
unsophisticated   tactics  to   avoid   trouble,   including   denial  in   the   face   of
obvious   evidence   and   dishonesty.  While   I  acknowledge   that  most   of   the
evidence   of  his  bad   judgment,   poor  decision   making,  and   rule-violating
behaviors  occurred   almost  a   decade   ago,  there  are  indications  that  he
omitted   information   on   his   SF   86   in   2018   (e.g.,   overlooking   his   present
marriage) and  that  he  provided  misleading  information   during  the  present
evaluation (e.g., denying  problems while in the Navy until confronted). This
suggests that he  continues  to  rely on  omissions,  counteraccusations, and
denials  to  resolve  problem  situations  (e.g.,  security clearance  investigation).
It  seems likely he  would  still  lie  to  cover his mistakes—a  serious concern if
he holds a security clearance  and/or works as an  aircraft mechanic.
CONCLUSIONS:  Based   on   available   data,   [Applicant’s]  mental   health
conditions  do   not  presently  impair   his  willingness  or  ability  to   safeguard
classified  information. Additionally, given  the  data  he  reported  is accurate,
the   risk of an  exacerbation   of   symptoms  seems to  be   low  at  this point   in
time.  However,  [he] has a  demonstrated  pattern of rule-violating  behavior,
poor  judgment,   and   dishonesty  that   could   reasonably   and   significantly
diminish   his  trustworthiness  and   judgment  in   a   national  security  context.
(GE 4 at 9-10)
SOR  ¶¶  2.b  and  2.c  allege  in  November  2012,  Applicant  was  involuntarily
committed  for mental-health  treatment,  and in  January 2013, Applicant  was  voluntarily
admitted  for  mental-health  treatment.  At  his  hearing,  Applicant  said  he  had  suicidal
ideations. (Tr. 69) He was an inpatient for about 14 days in November 2012, and he said
his treatment was outpatient in January 2013. (Tr. 68)
In   2012,  Applicant   was  diagnosed   with   ulcerative   colitis,  and   he   lost   about  35
pounds.  (Tr. 22)  He was unable  to  complete  physical activity,  and  his  former spouse  was
not   letting   him   see   his  children.  (Tr.   23)   He  became   extremely  depressed.   (Tr.  23)
Applicant’s father called Applicant’s supervisor and insisted that he receive help. (Tr. 24)
The  VA  is currently treating  him  for bipolar disorder. (Tr. 60) He sees a  VA  psychiatrist
once  every  three  months. (Tr. 60)  He  takes lithium twice  a  day.  (Tr. 61)  He did not  provide
any  VA   medical  treatment  records  to   corroborate   his  statements   about  consistently
receiving counseling and treatment.
I note that Applicant told Dr. E that he had a three-year-old daughter with Ms. G.
(Tr. 38) At his hearing, he said he misspoke. (Tr. 38) He said Ms. G had a daughter, and
he was not her father. (Tr. 39) He told Dr. E that he was accepting her as his daughter.
(Tr. 39)
Applicant  did   not  submit  any  documentation   contradicting   Dr.  E’s  opinions  and
conclusions. In  support  of his denial of SOR ¶¶  2.a, 2.b, and  2.c in his SOR response, he
asserted   he   supported   his  inpatient  treatment  when   he   asked   his  father  for  help,  and
therefore, it was not really involuntary. He said  Dr. E’s conclusions were probably based
on  the  allegations of others and  probably incorrect.  He is feeling  much  better now than
he felt in  2012.
Handling Protected Information  and Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 3.a alleges Applicant improperly stored sensitive aircraft information on his
personal computer in about July 2010. He left the computer in the unsupervised custody
of a Peruvian national. On October 25, 2012, a special agent from the NCIS questioned
him, and he said he could not remember whether any information on his computer was
classified; however, he  confirmed  his computer had  sensitive aircraft  information on  it.
SOR ¶ 4.a cross-alleges the allegation in SOR ¶ 3.a under Guideline E.
On August 25, 2012, Applicant made a sworn written statement to the NCIS which
states Ms. G had a friend from Miami. (GE 3 at 6) He said:
Her  friend   spoke   English,   German,  and   Spanish.   I  don’t   remember  her
name. I never took her to  the  base. I left a  personal [laptop  computer] in her
custody. On  that laptop  was aircraft maintenance  records . .  .  and  email
traffic pertaining  to  the  aircraft.  I   don’t think that the   maintenance  records
were classified  but I am not sure about some of the  emails. (GE 3  at 6)
At his hearing, Applicant said he gave his laptop computer to Ms. G, and he never
tried to get it back from her. (Tr. 61) There was one Navy maintenance status report and
one email on his computer; however, the documents were not sensitive or classified. (Tr.
58, 61-62, 70)
On November 7, 2012, the NCIS briefed a legal officer about Applicant’s alleged
actions relating to Article 92, Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for violation of an
order and Article 107, UCMJ for making a false statement. (GE 3 at 4) The NCIS report
indicates Applicant would be offered a captain’s mast. (Id.) The NCIS report also indicates
Applicant had been “Baker acted and spent 10 days in [a] mental health facility.” (Id. at 3)
Applicant said in January 2013, a summary court-martial (SCM) acquitted him of
violations  of  Article  92,  UCMJ  for  disobedience  of  an  order and  Article  107,  UCMJ  for
making a false statement. (Tr. 27-28, 62, 66) After his hearing, Applicant made a diligent
effort  to  locate  information  from  the  SCM;  however,  he  was  unable  to  obtain  any
documentation from his SCM. (Tr. 63; AE B) Section 15 Military History-- Discipline of his
May 5, 2018 SCA asks, “In the last 7years have you been subject to court-martial or other
disciplinary procedure under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), such as Article
15, [c]aptain’s mast, Article 135 Court of inquiry, etc.?” (GE 1 at 21) He answered, “No.”
(Id.) However, he did disclose on his SCA that he “went to a disciplinary review board”
based  on  issues  stemming  from  ulcerative  colitis  and  physical  fitness  training.  At  his
hearing, he did not know why he failed to list his SCM in his 2018 SCA. (Tr. 63-65) The
failure to disclose information about his SCM in his 2018 SCA and his OPM PSI were not
alleged in the SOR. (GE 1 at 21; GE 2 at 10)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 4.c alleges Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his  personal travel to
Peru to his command while he was on active duty.
The NCIS investigation states Applicant, “disclosed he has been taking secret trips
to Peru to see his wife, [Ms. G], and that he had failed to report his close relationship to
a foreign national to his security manager.” (GE 3 at 4) In his sworn statement to NCIS
he said:
Since JUL 10, I have  been to Peru three  times. I went in DEC 10, MAR 11,
DEC 11, and most recently on  27 MAR 12 which is when I  married  her. On
all  of these  occasions I just  took leave  and  left  the  country. I did not  notify
my  command  or my   security  officer. I did not  get   a  threat  brief   nor was  I
debriefed  upon  my return. (GE 3 at 6)
Later in his sworn statement he said a special agent showed him a list of his seven
trips to Peru, Applicant said “That appears accurate. I did not tell my command about any
of these trips. They were personal trips, and I used my blue passport.” (GE 3 at 7)
Applicant said he  did  not inform  one  command  that  he  was  traveling  to  Peru. (Tr.
42) He said he  submitted  leave  papers to  his squadron  that he  was going  to  Peru, and  he
received  a  threat briefing  from  that command  before traveling  to  Peru. (Tr. 42-46) He said
he  told the  NCIS  he  did  not inform  his command  or security of his travel  to  Peru  on  those
four occasions. (Tr. 43; GE  3  at 6) He said he  made  this statement to  NCIS  because  he
“had  no  fight left [in] me,” and  he  was “beaten  down.” (Tr. 43-44, 46)  He did not provide
copies of the  leave  forms to  corroborate  his claims  that he  informed  his command  of his
trips to Peru before he  took them.
SOR ¶ 4.d alleges Applicant made a false statement to his command on October
25, 2012, when he said he was married to a Peruvian national over the telephone by the
America Embassy. In fact, he flew to Peru for the wedding. He admitted to the NCIS that
he made  a false  statement  to his command  about  getting married over the  telephone.
(GE 3 at 8) He said he “thought [he] would get in trouble if the command found out [he]
had gone to Peru without going through the proper procedures.” (Tr. 53; GE 3)
SOR ¶ 4.e alleges Applicant made a false statement to military investigators during
his  October  25,  2012  personal  subject  interview  (PSI).  He  falsely  said  he  was  being
extorted  by  a  Peruvian  national  (Ms.  G).  He  subsequently  admitted  this  was  false.  He
said he had married this individual, and he was voluntarily sending her money.
Applicant’s October 25, 2012 statement to NCIS investigators indicates he told two
senior  petty  officers  that  Ms.  G  threatened  him  by  telling  him  that  unless  he  provided
funds to her she would get a friend of hers from another part of the state where he lived
to come to his location and hurt him and his family. (GE 3 at 8) He told the NCIS that Ms.
G demanded $2,000 from him, and when he expressed reluctance to give her the money,
“she said that she had friends [living in the same state where he lived] and they could find
[him] which [he] understood to be a threat.” (Id. at 6) The NCIS statement states, “Also in
the above paragraphs I was not truthful with Agents . . . about being extorted by [Ms. G].”
(Id. at 8) Applicant admitted that his story about being extorted was a lie. (Id.)
At his hearing, Applicant said a senior chief petty officer (SCPO) suggested to him
that he was being extorted by a woman in Peru, and Applicant said he told the SCPO this
was incorrect. (Tr. 49) The SCPO or possibly someone else evidently told the NCIS about
the extortion. (Tr. 49, 51-52) Applicant initially told the NCIS that Ms. G attempted to extort
money from him; however, he said his sworn statement to the NCIS about his making the
initial claim to the senior petty officers was incorrect. (Tr. 47-49)
SOR ¶¶ 4.f through 4.j alleges Applicant falsified material facts on his May 5, 2018
SCA in five different places:
¶   4.f—In  Section  17,  Marital/Relationship  Status,  Applicant  stated  his  current
marital status was “Divorced/Dissolved” (which referred to his first wife, not Ms. G) and
thereby deliberately failed to disclose he was married to a Peruvian national (Ms. G). In
Section 17 of his SCA, Applicant disclosed his first marriage and divorce. (GE 1 at 23) He
indicated his current marital status was “Divorced/Dissolved.” (Id.)
¶  4.g—In Section 19, Foreign Contacts, Applicant listed Ms. G as a former friend
who he last contacted in June 2016, and he failed to disclose his marriage and birth of
his  child.  (GE  1  at  26-27)  In  response  to  the  question  “Personal  (such  as  family  ties,
friendship, affection, common interests, etc.),” he said “Friendship.” (Id. at 27) Applicant
admitted  he  failed  to  disclose  his  marriage  to  Ms.  G;  however,  he  said  he  had  not
communicated with her for about two years at the time he completed his SCA. (Tr. 54)
The question did not specifically ask whether he had ever been married to Ms. G, and
this allegation is found for Applicant.
¶  4.h—Section 20A, Foreign Activities, asked Applicant, “Have you EVER provided
financial support for any foreign national?” (GE 1 at 28) Applicant answered, “No,” and he
failed  to  disclose  sending  about  $21,000  to  a  Peruvian  national  (Ms.  G)  between
September 2011 and October 2012.
Applicant admitted sending $600 to $700 monthly to Ms. G starting in September
2011. (Tr. 46) In 2012, he sent about $17,000 to Ms. G, and she gave some of it to family
and  friends.  (Tr.  47,  50;  GE  3  at  6)  Applicant  had  to  work  a  second  job  to  afford  his
payments to Ms. G. (Tr. 51) He said he did not know why he failed to disclose the funds
he sent to Ms. G on his SCA. (Tr. 55)
¶   4.i—Section  20C,  Foreign  Travel,  asked  Applicant  about  foreign  travel  in  the
previous seven years (the SCA is dated May 5, 2018). Applicant disclosed a single foreign
trip to Peru in May to June 2013, and he failed to disclose four additional foreign trips to
Peru in December 2011, and March 2012. (GE 1 at 30) At his hearing, he admitted he
traveled to Peru during December 2011, and March 2012, and he said he should have
disclosed the trips. (Tr. 42, 55) He said he did not remember why he failed to disclose the
trips two to Peru on his SCA. (Tr. 56-57)
¶   4.j—Section  21,  Psychological  and  Emotional  Health  –  Hospitalized,  asked
“Have you EVER been hospitalized for a mental health condition?” (GE 1 at 32) Applicant
answered,  “No.”  (Id.)  He  admitted  that  he  failed  to  disclose  the  hospitalization  in
November  2012  for  his  mental  health  condition.  At  his  hearing,  he  said  he  did  not
remember why he did not disclose his hospitalizations for psychological and emotional
health on his SCA. (Tr. 56)
SOR ¶  4.k alleges Applicant falsified material facts during his July 16, 2018 OPM
PSI, and SOR ¶¶ 4.l through 4.o allege he falsified material facts during his October 12,
2018 OPM PSI in four different ways:
¶  4.k states  Applicant said he  had  no  contact with  Ms. G  since  “shortly after”  his
May 2013  trip  to  Peru.  Applicant  told  the  OPM  investigator that  he  broke  up  with  Ms.  G
shortly after May  2013 and  he  had not  had any contact with  her since  this  time. (GE  2  at
6) In  the  follow-up OPM  PSI  on  October 12, 2018, he  said  he  had  “not had  any contact
with her since 6/2016.” (GE  2  at 11)
¶ 4.l states Applicant denied that he failed to report his personal travel to  Peru, as
required,  and  thereby  deliberately failed  to  disclose  that  information  in  SOR ¶¶  4.c  and
4.d.  His OPM  PSI states that he  did not bring  his passport to  the  interview. (GE 2  at 10)
The OPM  PSI states:
Subject was confronted with failing to report leaving the country and going
to  Peru  to  visit  a  Peruvian  woman  to  his  security  manager  (Discrepant).
Subject denies this failure and stated he listed Peru, the only trip that he
had  was  in  2010  and  2011  for  short  trips  with  the  military  on  official
government business. (GE 2 at 10)
At  his  hearing,  he  said  he  should  have  reported  the  additional  trips  to  Peru;
however, he was only thinking about the trip in January 2013. (Tr. 55) He also said he did
not remember why he failed to disclose the trips to Peru. (Tr. 56-57)
¶   4.m   states  Applicant  repeatedly  denied   his  March  2012   marriage   to   Ms.  G.
Applicant’s July 16, 2018 OPM  PSI states:
Subject was confronted with 9/2011 sending money to a Peruvian associate
who  he  married  in  3/2012  in  the  amount  $600-$700  and  after  they  were
married, he increased the amount to $2,000-$3,000. Subject stated he did
send listed foreign contact [Ms. G] money to help her family. But never felt
this was reason to report because he looked at it as helping a friend and not
supporting  a  foreign  national.  He  did  not  know  there  was  an  issue  with
helping a friend who was a foreign national. He continued to deny that he
was ever married to her or any foreign national.
At his hearing, he admitted that he failed to disclose his marriage to Ms. G. to the
OPM investigator during his PSI. (Tr. 54) He said he could not remember what he was
thinking at the time he made that statement to the investigator. (Tr. 58)
¶  4.n  states  Applicant  denied  having  ever been  involuntarily committed  to  a  mental-
health  facility.  The  OPM  PSI indicates he  volunteered  for mental health  treatment,  and  he
denied  that he  received  involuntary treatment  or that he  was “Baker acted.” (GE 2  at 11)
He said he  was diagnosed  with  bipolar disorder since  September 2011, and  he  was seen
at  the   VA   hospital.  (Id.  at  14)  He  was  not  prescribed   any  medication   and   he   did  not
regularly see a  provider or counselor. (Id.)
¶   4.o  states  Applicant  denied  having  ever  “been  involved  in,  suspected  of,  or
accused of the improper handling or compromise of sensitive, classified, or proprietary
information.” The OPM PSI indicates he said:
[He]  has  never  provided   anyone   with   anything   which   was  not  entirely  in
keeping   with   regulations.  [He]   has  not   had   any  occasions   in  which  his
actions   could   have   possibly  resulted   in   a   compromise   of   his  duties  or  a
compromise  of  sensitive   or  classified   information.  [He]  has  never  been
involved   in,   suspected   of,  or  accused   of   the   improper  handling   or
compromise   of  sensitive,  classified,   or  proprietary  information.  (GE   12   at
13)
Applicant’s father is a retired Air Force colonel who completed 30 years of service.
(Tr. 23) His father’s statement indicates Applicant was diagnosed with leukemia when he
was  three years old  and  received  chemotherapy  on multiple occasions  for  32 months.
(AE A) When Applicant was 19 years old, he attempted to join the Air Force; however, he
was  unable  to enlist  in  the Air Force  because  of  his previous medical  history. (Id.) He
successfully enlisted in the Navy. He served in the Navy for 20 years, and on April 30,
2013, he honorably retired after being acquitted at a SCM in January 2013.
His father said that  Applicant “is currently in  a  good  mental  place. Clearly, the  meds
are working  .  .  . [I]n mid-2018, he  quickly improved from his  mental position, because  he
was being  treated  by the  VA. And  during  that  treatment,  he  really rapidly improved.” (Tr.
25)  He concluded  Applicant’s mistakes in his  statement to  the  NCIS  occurred  because
“He  was both  mentally  and  physically, absolutely wiped  out.  And, when  you’re  in those
situations, you’re not thinking clearly. And  he was not thinking clearly. And, based on Dr.
[E’s] comments,  it’s clear to  me  that he  believes [Applicant]  has  moved  beyond  that state
of  mind.”  (Tr.  31)  His  mental  health   has   dramatically   improved   since   the   time   he   was
receiving  inpatient mental-health  treatment. (Tr. 33) His father said,  “he’s  completely in a
different state  of mind than  he was at that point in time.” (Tr. 33)
Applicant received the following Navy awards: Navy Achievement Medal (6); Joint
Meritorious Unit Award (2); Good Conduct Medal (6); National Defense Service Medal
(2); Navy “E” Ribbon; Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal (2); Global War on Terrorism
Service  Medal;  Global  War  on  Terrorism  Expeditionary  Medal;  Armed  Forces  Service
Medal;  Sea  Service  Deployment  Ribbon  (6);  Navy  Recruiting  Ribbon;  United  Nations
Medal; Rifle Marksmanship Ribbon; and EAWS Insignia. (SOR response, DD Form 214)
