Applicant is 38 years old, married to his second wife, and has two minor children
with his first wife. He served in the United States Army from 2004 to 2010, receiving an
honorable discharge. He has a master’s degree. He has been employed by a defense
contractor since July 2020, and seeks to retain national security eligibility and a security
clearance in connection with his employment. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A,
15, 17, and 18; Applicant Exhibit B.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR stated that Applicant had six debts that were past due, charged off, or in
collection,  in  the  total  amount  of  approximately  $56,041.  In  his  Answer  he  admitted
allegations 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, with explanations. He denied allegations 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f,
stating  he  had  resolved  those  debts.  The  existence  and  amount  of  these  debts  is
supported by his admissions to three SOR allegations in his Answer and by credit reports
dated  June  25,  2020;  January  7,  2021;  January  19,  2022;  and  May  11,  2023.
(Government  Exhibits  4,  5,  and  6;  Answer  Attachment.)  They  are  also  confirmed  by
Applicant’s answers during an interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel
Management  (OPM)  that  was  held  on  January  21,  2021.  (Government  Exhibit  3.)  In
addition,  they  were  confirmed  by  Applicant’s  responses  to  DCSA  CAS  interrogatories,
dated March 28, 2022. (Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant  testified  that  most  of  his  financial  difficulties  resulted  from  his  first
marriage  and  eventual  divorce.  While  they  were  married,  he  was  able  to  maintain
payments on all their debts. When they were divorced, he assumed all their marital debt
and  a  large  child-support  payment.  The  delinquent  debt  situation  came  to  a  head  in
approximately 2020. (Tr. 21-24.)
Starting in 2020 and continuing to present Applicant has been paying many of his
delinquent debts. This is reflected in the most recent of the credit reports in the record.
He stated, “I tried to just do one [debt] at a time, just knock them out. . . . So, really just
chipping away a little bit at a time, I think that really helped me close out the majority of
these debts. (Government Exhibit 6; Answer Attachment; Tr. 27.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $17,339  for a  charged-off  debt. He  testified  that,  at
the  time  of the  hearing  this debt,  and  the  one  set out in allegation  1.b, below, were  the
only  delinquent  debts   he   still   had   outstanding.  He  further  stated   that  after  completing
payments on  1.b, which  he  has now successfully done, he  would work diligently to  resolve
this  debt  as  well.  However,  as  of  the   time   the   record  closed,  this  debt  had   not  been
resolved. (Tr. 28-29.)
1.b.  Applicant  admitted   owing   $13,523   for  a   charged-off   credit  card  debt.   He
testified  that he  had  been  working  with  the  creditor to  resolve  the  debt.  Subsequent to  the
hearing  he  supplied  a  document from  the  creditor dated  September 29, 2023, stating  the
debt  had  been  “successfully settled.”  (Applicant Exhibit F; Tr. 29-30.) This debt has been
resolved.
1.c.   Applicant  admitted   owing   a   charged-off   debt  to   a   creditor  in  the   amount  of
$10,199. He  testified  and  supplied  documentation  showing  that  he  had  resolved  the  debt
before the hearing. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 31.)  This debt has been  resolved.
1.d. Applicant denied  owing  a  creditor $6,483  for a  charged-off  account.  He stated
that  he  had paid  this  debt and  knew  of no  reason  why  it still appeared  on  his  2020  credit
report.  (Government Exhibit 4;  Tr. 32-34.) This debt does not appear on  any of the more
recent credit reports in  the  record.  (Government Exhibits 5  and  6; Answer Attachment.)
As set forth  elsewhere  in this decision, Applicant’s statements about payments to  other
creditors are  supported  by  documentation. That fact,  along  with  evidence  showing  he  had
successfully paid additional past-due  debts not alleged  in the  SOR,  provide  support for
his statement that he  paid this debt as well. Based  on  the  state  of  the  record,  I find  by  a
preponderance  of the  evidence Applicant resolved this former debt.
1.e.   Applicant   denied   owing   $5,455   for  a   past-due   debt.   He   stated   that  he   had
successfully paid this debt.  Subsequent to  the  hearing  he  submitted  a  document from  the
creditor confirming  that  he  had  resolved  this debt.  (Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 35.) This debt
has been resolved.
1.f.  Applicant  denied   owing   $3,042   for  a   past-due   debt.   He  stated   that  he   had
successfully paid this debt.  Subsequent to  the  hearing  he  submitted  a  document from  the
creditor confirming that  he  had  resolved  the  debt.  (Applicant  Exhibit D; Tr. 35.) This  debt
has been resolved.
Mitigation
Applicant supplied a letter of recommendation from the vice president of operations
at  his  employer.  The  writer  stated  that  during  the  time  Applicant  has  worked  for  him,
“[Applicant]  has  consistently  been  evaluated  above  his  peers  and  exceeded
expectations.” (Applicant Exhibit E.)
