Applicant is in her 30s. She has worked for defense contractors for several years.
She seeks to a retain a security clearance (currently Secret, but she is applying for Top
Secret),  which  she  has  held  without  any  apparent  incident  since  about  2019.  She
earned bachelor’s and master’s degrees from a prestigious university. She is married to
a native-born U.S. citizen. She has at least one child who was born in the United States.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 12-13, 16, 20, 26-28; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant was born a citizen of Country X. A close family member (cousin, aunt,
uncle,  niece,  or  nephew)  is  the  dictator  of  Country  X.  Applicant’s  parents  and  their
children,  including  Applicant,  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  the  1990s  when  she
was young. They all became U.S. citizens. None of her immediate family members have
ever returned to Country X or maintained contact with any of their family in Country X.
(Tr. at 12-15, 20-22, 26-27; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Country  X  considers  people  who  leave  their  country  to  be  traitors,  and  the
country has taken retaliatory actions against some of them. Applicant’s parents changed
their  and  their  children’s  names  when  they  came  to  the  United  States.  Few  people
outside Applicant’s immediate family are aware that she is related to Country X’s head
of state. (Tr. at 23-26; GE 1-3)
Applicant  expressed  her  undivided  loyalty  and  allegiance  to  the  United  States.
She  credibly  testified  that  her  connections  to  Country  X  and  its  dictator  could  not  be
used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  her  into  revealing  classified  information.  Applicant’s
husband  testified  to  her  loyalty  to  the  United  States,  and  that  they  have  no  ongoing
concerns  about  Country  X  or  its  dictator.  Applicant  admitted  that  her  mother  still fears
retaliation. (Tr. at 13-15, 33-34, 37-38; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant submitted letters attesting to her excellent job performance and strong
moral character. She is praised for her trustworthiness, professionalism, reliability, and
discretion   in  the   handling   of  national   security  information.   She   is  recommended   for  a
security clearance.  (Tr. at 40; AE  A-C)
