In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, he admitted all of the allegations in the SOR.
His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a   37-year-old  male.  He  holds  a   Ph.D.   earned   in  2020   while  living
overseas.  He earned  his master’s degree  in 2012  and  his bachelor’s degree  in 2010  from
the   same   U.S.  university.   He  has  worked   for   a   DoD contractor   since   May  2022.  He  is
single and   has no   children.   The   evidence   concerning   his   taxes and   use  of  information
technology is summarized below.
Guideline F
SOR ¶ 1.a: failed to file as required Federal income tax  returns for tax years
2013 through 2018. Applicant admits the allegation. As mitigation he offers that he was
living overseas in a country where he believed there was a treaty that income earned in
the one country would only be taxed by the country where he was residing but not both.
He notes the IRS had not reached out to him, so he concluded it was “likely” not an issue
for them. (Answer.) His Federal tax account transcripts for the tax years alleged reflect
no  tax  returns  filed  for  the  years  provided.  (Item  3.)  In  his  Response,  he  again
acknowledged not filing his tax returns for tax years 2013-2018 and attached the unfiled
1040 forms with calculations that indicated he owed no money. He stated had he thought
he owed money or had he been living in the United States he would have “definitely" filed
his Federal returns. He offers as mitigation these incidents happened several years ago
while living and working on his Ph.D. overseas, and since returning to the United States,
he  has  started  working  with  a  tax  preparer  to  file  returns  for  the  missing  years.  In  his
Response, he notes as mitigation he filed his tax returns for tax years 2019 through 2022.
Guideline M
SOR ¶  2.a: Applicant illegally downloaded movies from his school computer
while  attending  the  University  (X),  from  about  2005  to  about  2006,  without
authorization and against school policy. Applicant admits the allegation. He clarified
in his Answer that he believes the downloading occurred on his personal computer. As
mitigation he highlights that sufficient time has passed; that he had very little income while
a student and could not afford to purchase the movies; and notes the last time he illegally
downloaded something  was in October 2022. (Answer at 2.)  He was reprimanded  by the
University  (X) for copyright violations in  December 2005. The  reprimand  advised  him  a
second  violation  would   result in   serious consequences,   which  “at a   minimum” included
being  charged  with  violation  of computer policy, theft  of intellectual property,  and  failure
to  comply with an official request.  (Item 4  at 7, 16.)
SOR  ¶   2.b:  Applicant  illegally  downloaded  television  shows,  movies,  e-
books,  and  video  games  estimated  to  be  valued  at  $54,000,  from  his  personal
computer  from  about  2011  to  present  without  authorization.  Applicant  admits  the
allegation. In his Response he clarifies that he has not been continuously downloading
illegal content since 2011. He  breaks  down the  times  he  illegally downloaded material
and  explains  where  there  were  multi-year  gaps.  He  started  downloading  sometime
between 2011 and 2015 and was “halted again” after his security clearance interview in
July 2022 so it was “only 15 years total, with a 6-year break in the middle” vice 20 years.
(Response at 2; Item 4.) He provides a detailed breakdown of the items in his Response
to get to the $54,000 figure and then notes that with subscription services the present-
day value according to his breakdown is $6,360. He notes he voluntarily reported these
in his interview. (Response at 2; Item 3 at 17; Item 4 at 7, 16.) He explains in his Response
that his “illegal downloading in general has just been a hobby, not a habit, which makes
it easy to halt.” Now that he is aware of the implications to his security clearance, he has
made  efforts  to  halt  any  illegal  downloading  and  deleted  any  illegal  content  from  his
computers. (Response at 3.)
SOR ¶  2.c: Applicant loaded a Tor Internet browser onto his personal laptop,
between 2015 and 2018 and accessed an illegal marketplace on the dark web where
he  viewed  pictures  on  sale  of  women  that  were  taken  without  their  consent.
Applicant admits the allegation. He states in his Answer and Response this was a onetime
event that occurred one evening somewhere between 2015 and 2018. He thought  “the
dark  web  would  have  strange-but-benign  websites  to  explore,  though  the  links  were
sometimes unlabeled. That website was an “uncomfortable experience,”  and he states
he does not intend to go back to the Tor browser, the dark web, or to  similar websites
ever again. (Answer; Item 4 at 16-17.) There is no evidence that Applicant’s accessing
the dark web was illegal. He stated in response to Government interrogatories that his
accessing of the dark web was not part of a search for illegal content or to commit illegal
acts. There is no evidence he used the dark web to sell or purchase illegal firearms, drugs,
pornography,  stolen  passwords,  hacked  credit  card  account  numbers,  or  other  illegal
items  associated  with  the  dark  web.  He  stated  in  the  Government  interrogatories  he
thought the worst thing he saw on the dark web was a site selling pictures of adult women
without their consent and affirmed he “did not purchase anything, nor view illegal content.”
(Item  3  at  19.)  He  repeatedly  denied  to  the  investigator  viewing  any  type  of  illegal
pornography. (Item 4 at 17.)
SOR ¶  2.d: Applicant illegally or when otherwise not authorized duplicated
video  games  for  LAN  parties  in  about  September  2001.  Applicant  admits  the
allegation. He states the video game duplication was a way to let everyone at the LAN
party join in the gaming, so no one was left out. (Item 3 at 17.) He notes his video-game
duplication activities ended a long time ago and will not reoccur because, with streaming
services,  it  is  now  easier  to  legally  acquire  games.  He  states  he  has  “deleted  any
remaining  illegal  content  on  my  technology,  and  [he]  will  not  illegally  download  or
duplicate anything in the future.” (Answer at 2.)
Guideline J
SOR ¶  3.a: Information as  set forth in subparagraphs  2.a  through  2.d,  above.
Applicant admits  the  allegation. See  the  facts discussed  in subparagraphs  2.a  through
2.d  above.  As  mitigation  he  cites  the  unusual circumstances  of  the  downloading  generally
occurring   when   he   was  a   student   when   he   had   little  income.  As   an   indication   of  his
rehabilitation,  he notes  “stopped any kind of illegal  or gray-area  downloading  [in October
2022],  and [he] has no  interest in continuing.” (Response  at 3.)
As further mitigation Applicant offers in his Response that he is an honest person.
He achieved “life rank” in the Boy Scouts. He abided by the alcohol laws and did not drink
until he was 21 years old. He has never gotten a parking ticket  or tried illegal drugs or
marijuana. As a teaching assistant, he was entrusted with students’ grades. (Response
at 3.)
