Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in February 2016 and has one child from his marriage who is a
U.S.  citizen  by  birth.  (GE  1;  Tr.  24,  26-27)  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  from  a
university in Jordan in September 2010. (GE 1)
Applicant  emigrated  from  Iraq  in  2007  to  be  close  to  his  parents  in  Jordan  and
never  returned  to  Iraq.  (Tr.  29-30)  He  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2011  and
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2019. (GE 1; Tr. 20) He received a U.S.
passport in the same month and year. (GEs 1-2) Although his Iraqi passport expired in
April 2023 without renewal, he has retained his Iraqi citizenship. (GE 1; Tr. 39)
Following his relocation to the United States, he earned a master’s degree from a
respected  U.S.  university  in  December  2014.  (GE  1;  Tr.  20)  He  maintains  an  active  l
license as a professional engineer. (AE B) Applicant reported no U.S. or foreign military
service.  Nor  did  he  report  any  formal  or  informal  ties  or  connections  to  the  Iraqi  and
Jordanian governments.
Applicant’s  wife  was  born  in  Iraq,  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2018,  and
became  a  permanent  resident  the  same  year.  (GE  1;  Tr  25)  She  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree  in  architectural  engineering  from  a  Jordanian  university  and  became  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2023.  (AE  A;  Tr.  26-28)  Like  Applicant,  she  still  holds  dual
Iraqi citizenship. (AE A) Both of her parents are naturalized U.S. citizens and residents.
(Tr. 29) Although Applicant and his wife currently rent their home in the United States,
they previously owned a U.S. residence. (Tr. 23) Neither Applicant nor his wife own any
property in Iraq. (Tr. 28) Together, they retain an approximate U.S.-based net worth of
between $600,000 and $700,000. (Tr. 24)
Since April 2018,  Applicant has been  employed as an engineer for his current
employer.  (GEs  1-2)  Between  October  2012  and  April  2018,  he  worked  for  other
employers  in  various  positions.  (GEs  1-2)  He  reported  brief  periods  of  unemployment
between  August  2015  and  July  2016.  (GE  10  His  most  recent  credit  report  reflects
excellent credit and payment status with his creditors. (AE D) While Applicant has never
held a security clearance with the DoD, he has held security clearances with other U.S.
agencies. (Tr. 22)
Family connections with Iraq
Both of Applicant’s parents are citizens of Iraq and residents of Jordan. (GEs 1-2;
Tr. 27, 33, 35) Concerned about the security situation in Iraq, they made the decision to
immigrate to Jordan in 2006 or 2007. (Tr. 30-31) He maintains weekly telephone contact
with his parents. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 30-34)
While   residents  of  Iraq,  Applicant’s  parents   owned   an   oil   equipment  supply
company  and  still  retain  property  interests in  Iraq  valued  in  excess of $800,000.  (Tr. 31-
32) Since  retired  and  residents of  Jordan, his  parents own  property  in Jordan  valued  at
$150,000.  (Tr.  32-33)  While   his  parents  frequently  visit  Iraq,  their   intentions  are  to
remain in Jordan. (Tr. 36-37) They have  no  plans to  move  to  the  United  States. (Tr. 35-
36)
Applicant  travels  to  Jordan  annually  to  see  his  parents  and  siblings.  He  last
traveled  to  Jordan  in  2022.  (Tr.  38,  40-41) Applicant  has  provided  financial  support  to
his  mother  when  asked.  Tr.  35)  Honoring  her  last  request  for  assistance  in  2023,  he
provided  $46,000  to  help  her  with  her  household  expenses.  He  has  no  plans  at  this
time,  however,  to  provide  any  additional  funds  to  his  parents  in  the  future.  (Tr.  35)
Neither of Applicant’s parents have  any  affiliations, ties, or connections  with either the
Iraqi or Jordanian governments. (Tr. 33)
Applicant has two siblings (an older rother and younger sister) who are citizens of
Iraq and residents of Jordan. (GEs 1-2 He maintains weekly telephone contact with both
of  his  siblings.
(GEs  1-2;  Tr.  38,  40)  His  brother  is  unmarried  and  owns  an  oil
equipment supply firm. (Tr. 37) He has no affiliations, ties, or connections with either the
Iraqi or Jordanian governments. (Tr. 40-41)
Applicant’s  younger  sister  resides  with  her  parents  and  is  a  recent  Jordanian
university graduate with a degree in architectural engineering. (Tr. 39)  Like her brother,
she has no affiliations, ties, or connections to either the Iraqi or Jordanian governments.
(Tr. 39) Neither of his siblings have any known property in Iraq or Jordan. (Tr. 39)
Applicant assured that he has never provided any financial support to any of his
siblings in Iraq and has no plans to do so in the future. (Tr. 38, 40) Neither of his siblings
have  any  business  or  property  interests  in  Iraq.  Both  Applicant  and  his  siblings  have
inheritance  rights  to  their  parents’  property  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  41)  By  law,  their  parents’
property will be split between Applicant and his siblings after their parents pass. (Tr. 41)
Country Status of Iraq
The Federal Republic of Iraq (Iraq) is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The
outcome  of  the  October  2021  parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international
standards  of  free  and  fair  elections.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Federal
Republic of Iraq (Iraq) at 2 and 2022 Iraq Human rights Report at 1; U.S. Department of
State (April 2023). The  elections were observed by  the  European Union and domestic
civil  society  organizations  and  monitored  by  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  or
Iraq. (id.) The 2021 elections were scheduled because of the widespread protests that
began in October 2019 and led to the resignation of former prime minister Adil Abd al-
Mahdi  in  December  2019.  Parliament,  in  turn,  confirmed  Prime  Minister  Mustafa  al-
Kadhimi in May 2020.
In preparation for the 2021 national parliamentary elections, Iraq adopted a new
electoral  law  based  on  individual  candidacy  and  local  districts.  See  Request  for
Administrative Notice, Iraq; supra; 2022 Human Rights Report, supra. The 2021 election
law  was  designed  to  create new political  opportunities  for independents and members
and  protest  movement  that  brought  down  the  government  formed  after  the  2018
election.  See  Iraq  and  U.S.  Policy,  Congressional  Research  Service  (May  2022).
Following  the  adoption  of  the  election  law,  the  council  of  Representatives  members
nominated and confirmed Mohammed Shiaa al-Sudani as the prime minister, along with
21 of 23 of his cabinet members. See Iraq 2022 Human Rights Report, supra. Whether
the  election  results  and  formation  talks will reduce  the  formal influence  of  Iran-aligned
groups who seek to revise or rescind Iraq’s invitation to U.S. military advisors to remain
in Iraq is unclear.
For  historical  perspective,  in  2003,  a  U.S.-led  coalition  invaded  Iraq  and
succeeded  in  removing  Saddam  Hussein  and  his  Ba’athist  regime  from  military  and
political  power.  See  the  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  U.S.  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (Feb.
2018); Background Note, Iraq, at 3, U.S. Dept. of State (Feb. 2008). After two years of
operations  under  a  provisional  authority,  Iraq’s  new  government  assumed  office  in
March 2006 (with the approval of the U.S. government), following free elections. (id)
Since  March  2006,  the  government  of  Iraq  has  been  comprised  of  a  broad
coalition of political alliances representing the Shiite, Sunni, and Kurdish blocs. See the
World  Factbook:  Iraq, supra, at  2; Background  Note,  Iraq,  supra, at  8. While elections
have been held and concluded, none of the key constituent groups have been able  to
form  a  government,  adopt  an  oil  law,  establish  and  maintain  effective  security
throughout  the  provinces,  or  neutralize  sectarian  divisions.  In  this  still  very  fragile
political environment in Iraq, there are substantiated reports of human rights abuses that
continue to underscore a still pervasive climate of tension and violence. See Iraq 2022
Human Rights Report, supra, at 2-3.
Post-COVID-19  protests  intensified  in  May  2021,  with  demonstrators  insisting
that the government identify  and prosecute suspects in a series of assassinations and
kidnappings  since  2020  of  protest  lesdars,  activists,  and  a  prominent  security
researcher. See Iraq and  U.S.  Policy,  supra.  Whatever government  is  able  to  survive
the  competing  Iraqi  political  blocks  will  continue  to  test  the  will  of  .continued  U.S.
security  cooperation  and  other  bilateral  ties  against  the  security  risks  posed  by  Iraq’s
cited persistence of patronage politics, corruption, oil dependence, and armed non-state
actors.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  2;  Iraq  and  U.S.  Policy,
supra, at 1-2,
Iraq’s economy continues to be dominated by the oil sector, as it has for the past
half century since the completion of new pipelines into Lebanon in 1949, and into Syria
in 1952. See the World Factbook: Iraq, supra; Background Note, Iraq, supra. As a result
of the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, much  of Iraq’s oil-refining capabilities were shuttered,
The  rebuilding  of  oil  infrastructure  and  utilities  infrastructure  has  continued  to  expand
since 2004 with U.S. aid and support, despite setbacks from insurgent activity.
Proposed   oil   revenue-sharing   legislation   among   the   three   war-hardened   ethno-
sectarian   divisions  (Shia,   Sunni,  and   Kurds)  still   awaits  passage   after  four  years  of
stalled   negotiations,  and   at  the   moment,   there  are   no   good   estimates  of  when   such
legislation   will   be   approved   and   implemented.  See   Annual  Threat   Assessment  of  the
U.S.  Intelligence   Community,   Office   of   the   Director  of   National   Intelligence   (February
2023).  For  the  foreseeable  future,  the  national government can  be  expected  to  continue
to   seek  the   passage   and   implementation   of   a   revenue   sharing   law  to   strengthen   and
encourage the development of this important  sector.
Past  budget  laws  passed  by  Iraq’s  national  parliament  requiring  the  KRG  to
contribute  certain  export  earnings  in  the  country’s  overall  exports  (a  law  that  would
seem  to  validate  the  KRG’s  ownership  claims  to  Kirkuk  oil)  have  never  led  federal
authorities  to  export  Kirkuk-produced  oil.  In  so  doing,  Iraq’s  federal  authorities  have
severely limited Iraq’s northern export outlet via the Kurdish pipeline to Turkey. Breaking
the oil-stalemate that existed for years between the KRG and Iraq’s federal government
can  have  major  positive  ramifications  for  not  only  Iraq  and  its  oil  exports,  but  for  the
United States and other Western interests as well.
Terrorism and human rights issues
Despite  recent  developments  in  its  security  enforcement  efforts,  Iraq  remains  a
very  dangerous,  volatile,  and  unpredictable  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department
continues  to  strongly  warn  U.S.  citizens  against  traveling  to  Iraq.  See  Request  for
Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  2-5;  Iraq  Travel  Advisory,  U.S.  Department  of
State  (January  2023)  The  State  Department  assessed  Iraq  as  being  a  critical-threat
location for crime directed at or affecting official U.S. interests. See Country Reports on
Terrorism 2021, U.S. Dept. of State of State (Feb. 2023). After a year of stalemate and
heightened intra-Shia violence following the elections of October 2021, Shia militias can
be expected to continue to pose a credible threat to U.S. forces in Iraq and the region.
See id.
Attacks against military and civilian targets throughout Iraq continue and include
sites  and  facilities  where  foreign  tourists  frequently  visit:  hotels,  restaurants,  police
stations,  check  points,  foreign  diplomatic  missions,  international  organizations,  and
other  locations  with  expatriate  personnel.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra;  Travel  Advisory-Iraq,  supra.  The  U.S.  Embassy’s  ability  to  provide  consular
services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security
environment that still exists in Iraq.
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed into  law  the  Visa Waiver  Program
Improvement and  Terrorist  Travel Protection Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the existing
Waiver Program. See Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 5-6. Under the 2015
amendment,  citizens  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Syria  are  ineligible  to  travel  or  be
admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. See id.
Iraq’s  human  rights  record  remains  a  poor  one.  Based  on  the  U.S.  State
Department’s  most  recent  annual  human  rights  report,  violence  continued  throughout
2017-2018, largely fueled by the actions of the Islamic state in Iraq (ISIS). See Request
for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  5-6  Annual  Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.
Intelligence  Community,  supra. After liberating  all territory taken by  ISIS by  the  end  of
2017, Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) have continued to pursue and restrict ISIS forces still
active in Iraq.
Reports  of  human  rights  abuses  also  include  allegations  of  unlawful  killings  by
some  members  of  the  ISF  (particularly  by  some  members  of  the  Popular  Mobilization
forces),  torture,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities,
criminalization of libel and other limits on freedom of expression, widespread corruption,
greatly  reduced  penalties  for  so-called  honor  killings,  coerced  or  forced  abortions
imposed by ISIS on its victims, legal restrictions imposed on the freedom of movement
of  women,  and  trafficking  in  persons.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra; Iraq 2022 Human Rights Report, supra, at 2-3.
Current U.S. Relations with Iraq
The  U.S.  mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with  Iraq  and  the  Iraqi  people.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Iraq,  supra,  at  1-3,  In
coordination  with  the  Global Coalition  to  defeat  ISIS,  the  United  States  assisted  Iraq’s
efforts  to  achieve  the  long-sought  goal  of  liberating  all  of  Iraqi  territory  from  ISIS.  The
Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA) between Iraq and the United States provides the
basis  of  the  United  States’  bilateral  relationship  with  Iraq  and  covers  a  wide  range  of
bilateral issues, including political relations and diplomacy, defense and security, trade
and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,  services,  science,  culture,
education, and environment. (id., at 2)
U.S.  bilateral  assistance   to   Iraq   is   considerable   and   stresses  economic   reform,
assistance   to   vulnerable  groups,  and   democracy  and   governance.   See   U.S.  Relations
with  Iraq, supra, at 3-4. U.S. security assistance  supports  the  development of modern,
accountable,  fiscally  sustainable,   and   professional  Iraqi  military  resources  capable   of
defending Iraq and its borders.
Of  special  importance,  the  United  States  has  designated  Iraq  as  a  beneficiary
developing  country  under  the  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  Program  and  has
been proactive in the promotion of two-way trade between the United States and Iraq.
See  U.S.  Relations  with  Iraq,  supra.  Iraq  is  recognized  for  its  cooperative  efforts  with
international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  the  International  Monetary
Fund,  the  World  bank,  the  International  Organization  for  Migration,  the  International
Labor Organization, and the Arab League. (id.) Iraq is also a candidate for accession to
the World Trade Organization.  See id and Country Reports on Terrorism 2021, supra,
at 4.
Country Status of Jordan
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan) is a constitutional monarchy ruled by
King  Abdullah  II  bin  Hussein.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan; Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2021: Jordan, U.S.
Department  of  State  (April  2022).  Ever  since  it  established  diplomatic  relations  with
Jordan  in  1949,  the  United  States  and  Jordan  have  enjoyed  a  long  history  of
cooperation  and  friendship.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Jordan:  Bilateral  Relations  Fact
Sheet, U.S. Dept. of State (April 2022) The United States and Jordan share the mutual
goals of comprehensive, just, and lasting peace in the Middle East and an end to violent
extremism  that  threatens  the  security  of  Jordan,  the  region,  and  the  entire  globe.  See
Jordan: Background and U.S. Relations, at 12, Congressional Research Service  (Dec.
2019) (id.)
From  1949  to  1967,  Jordan  administered  the  West  Bank.  Since  the  1967  war
between  Israel  and  several  Arab  states,  Israel  has  maintained  control  of  this  territory.
The  United  States  continues  to  believe  that  the  final  status  of  the  West  Bank  can  be
determined  only  through  negotiations  among  the  concerned  parties  based  on  UN
Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. See CIA World Fact Book, Jordan at 1 (Nov.
2022) and U.S. Relations with Jordan: Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
In  2017,  the  United  States  provided  Jordan  $1.7  billion  in  bilateral  foreign
assistance and over $200 million in DoD support. In addition to bilateral assistance, the
United  States  has  provided  nearly  $1.1  billion  in  humanitarian  assistance  to  support
Syrian  refugees  in  Jordan.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Jordan,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact
Sheet, supra.
In  2018,  the  United  States  and  Jordan  signed  a  non-binding  Memorandum  of
Understanding (MOU) to provide $6.375 billion in bilateral foreign assistance to Jordan
over a five-year period, pending the availability of funds. The MOU serves to reinforce
the U.S. commitment to broaden cooperation and dialogue between the two countries in
various areas. Examples include improving health indicators, road and water networks,
building of schools, educating Jordanians, providing improved access to water, resource
management and conservation, providing energy loan guarantees, and allowing Jordan
access  to  affordable  financing  from  international  capital  markets.  See  U.S.  Relations
with Jordan, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
The U.S.-Jordan free trade agreement (FTA), the United State’s first FTA with an
Arab  country,  has  expanded  the  trade  relationship  by  reducing  barriers  for  services,
regulatory
providing  cutting-edge  protection
transparency,  and  requiring  effective  labor  and  environmental  enforcement.  See  U.S.
Relations with Jordan: Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
intellectual  property,  ensuring
for
The  United  States  and  Jordan  have  an  “open  skies”  civil  aviation  agreement;  a
bilateral  investment  treaty;  a  science  and  technology  cooperation  agreement;  and  a
memorandum  of  understanding  on  nuclear  energy  cooperation.  Such  agreements
bolster efforts to  help diversify Jordan’s economy  and promote growth. Jordan and the
United States belong to a number of the same international organizations, including the
United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,  World  Bank,  and  the  World  Trade
Organization. See U.S. Relations with Jordan: Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
The U.S. Department of State assesses the threat of terrorism in Jordan as high;
with  the  capital  of  Amman  currently  assessed  as  a  high-threat  location  for  terrorist
activity  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  Government  interests.  See  Request  for
Administrative  Notice,  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  supra,  at  3-4;  Jordan  Travel
Advisory, U.S. Department of State (Oct. 2022). Recent surveys cite U.S. involvement
in Iraq and Syria, and the U.S. Government’s policies on Israel as key factors that have
fueled anti-American feelings in Jordan. See id.
Transnational and  indigenous  terrorist  groups  in  Jordan  have  demonstrated  the
capability  to  plan  and  implement  attacks.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, supra, at 3-4. Violent extremist groups in Syria and Iran
including the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL (also known as the Islamic State
of  Iraq and Syria, or ISIS  and Jabhat  al-Nusra,  have  conducted attacks  in  Jordan and
continue  to  plot  against  local  security  forces,  U.S.  and  Western  interests,  and  soft
targets,  such  as  high-profile  public  events,  hotels,  places  of  worship,  restaurants,
schools, and malls. Jordan’s prominent role in the effort to  defeat ISIS, and its shared
borders  with  Iraq  and  Syria,  increase  the  potential  for  future  terrorist  incidents.  See
Jordan Country Security Report, at 4-8, (U.S. Dept. of State (Aug. 2022).
According  to  the  Department  of  State’s  2021  Human  Rights  Report,  Jordan’s
most  significant  continuing  human  rights  problems  include  allegations  of  torture  by
security  and  government  officials;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  including  of  activists
and  journalists;  infringements  on  privacy  rights;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  expression;
and  restrictions  on
Impunity  remained
freedom  of  association  and  assembly.
widespread,  and  the  government  did  not  take  sufficiently  strong  steps  to  investigate,
prosecute, or punish officials who committed abuses.  See  Country  Reports  on  Human
Rights Practices for 2021: Jordan, at 1-3 (U.S. Dept. of State (April 2022).
Performance evaluations
Applicant’s performance evaluations for calendar year report outstanding results
and  contributions  to  his  employer  in  multiple  categories.  (AE  C)  Categories  assessed
include  investing  in  people,  fulfilling  promises,  building  sustainable  returns  for  the
company, stakeholders, and customers, and exercising key behaviors in the workplace
that  reflect  positively  on  his  vision,  values,  and  covenants.  Applicant  received
outstanding performance ratings in all of these scored categories. (AE C)
