Applicant admitted all of the allegations contained in the SOR. (¶¶ 1.a -1.c, 2.a,
and 2.b.) (Answer) After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 32 years old, married with two sons, ages 8 and 9, and a baby due in
March 2024. In April 2022, he began working for a government  contractor as a research
lab mechanic. This is Applicant’s first application  for a DOD security clearance. In April
2022, he submitted an Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). In
January  2023,  he  answered  interrogatory  questions  developed  after  his  August  2022
background interview with an investigator.  (Tr. 15-17, 35; GE 1, 2 and 4)
Alcohol consumption and criminal conduct
I listed Applicant’s conduct in chronological order as follows:
SOR  ¶ 1.c  (cross-alleged under ¶ 2.a): Applicant  was  charged  in October 2011
with an underaged drinking of alcohol. He stated that he was at a bar drinking alcohol at
the age of 20. After he and his friend left left the bar, they were pulled over by a police
officer and charged with consuming alcohol underage. (Tr. 49; GE 3)
SOR  ¶  2.b:  Applicant  was  charged  in  November  2011  with  drug  abuse  and
possession of paraphernalia. He had people at his apartment and the police were called
due to a noise complaint. When the police looked into his apartment, they saw a pipe for
smoking marijuana and a bag of marijuana sitting on his table. He was charged for the
offenses listed above. Applicant testified that he could not recall the last time he had used
an illegal substance since it was so long ago. (Tr. 49-50)
SOR ¶ 1.b (cross-alleged under ¶ 2.a): Applicant was charged in September 2016
with operating vehicle while intxicated (OVI). He stated that during this time he worked
for a small family-owned heating and air conditioning company. One day the employees
did not have any scheduled work to perform, and the owner of the company offered to
pay his employees to come to his house and plant trees. It was hot that day and his boss
provided beer for the workers. After the work was finished, the employees continued to
stay at the home drinking beer and talking. Without any advance warning, his boss had
to  take  his  wife  somewhere,  and  the  employees  were  expected  to  leave  immediately.
Applicant stated, “I was coming down the road and then forgot about this hill, because I
was intoxicated, and I rolled my car and ended up in a ditch that night and then went to
the hospital.” His blood- alcohol level was twice the legal limit, around .16% or .17%. He
was found guilty of OVI, his driver’s license  was suspended, he  was ordered  to  attend
Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) alcohol education meetings for a weekend, and
he was assessed fines and costs. (Tr. 29-33; GE 1 and 4)
Applicant told  the  investigator  during  his August 2022  background  interview  that
he  had  consumed  approximately six  beers before his 2016  OVI arrest.  He also told the
investigator that he  crashed  his car after he  tried  avoiding  a  deer in the  road. When  asked
about this discrepancy  during  the  hearing, Applicant stated  he  could  not recall  if he  told
the  investigator there was a  deer, and  he  said  that  he  was unable to  recall  if he  even  saw
a  deer  in the  road  before  he  crashed  his car because  he  was intoxicated.  (GE  4;  Tr. 30-
31)
SOR ¶ 1.a (cross-alleged under ¶ 2.a): Applicant was  arrested in January 2022
and  charged  with  OVI,  blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  greater  than  0.08%  but  less  than
0.17% (Applicant registered 0.139%) and speeding. He was convicted of physical control-
reckless driving and the court ordered him to complete a substance abuse assessment,
pay a fine of $250 plus court costs, his driver’s license was suspended until January 2023,
and he was placed on one year of probation, which he successfully completed about a
week before his December 12, 2023 hearing. He stated that he drove his wife’s car and
went to  a friend’s house  to  watch a  playoff football game. Another friend  in attendance
was supposed to drive him home, but his friend drank too much alcohol and got sick. He
estimated  that  he  may  have  consumed  more  than  six  beers  during  the  game.  After
Applicant  waited an hour-and-a-half  to two hours at his friend’s house  to  sober up, he
drove that night and was pulled over for speeding near his home. He was arrested for the
offenses  listed  above.  His  attorney  noted  that  some  of  the  field  sobriety  tests  were
improperly  conducted  by  the  police  officer,  so  Applicant  was  able  to  plead  to  a  lesser
offense of physical control-reckless driving. Applicant stated he voluntarily attended 10
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings on his own because he “felt like it was time to start
shaping  [his] life  up  and  getting  [his] life  together and  quit  drinking.”  He initially denied
that he was ordered by the court to attend AA meetings, but later during the hearing he
admitted he was court-orderd to attend 10 AA meetings. (Tr. 17-23, 27-29, 46; GE 1, 2
and 4)
The January 2022 police report reflected that Applicant had stated  to the police
officer  that  he  had  last  consumed  alcohol  20  minutes  before  he  was  pulled  over.  The
passenger  in  Applicant’s  car  tested  below  the  legal  limit  and  was  permitted  to  drive
Applicant’s  car  from  the  scene.  (GE  2)  When  asked  about  this  information  during  the
hearing, Applicant stated that since his friend had gotten sick, he must have eliminated
the alcohol from his system which may be the reason why his friend registered below the
legal  limit.  Applicant  could  not  explain  why  he  told  the  officer  he  had  last  consumed
alcohol 20 minutes before he was pulled over as compared to his testimony that he waited
an hour-and-a-half to two hours at his friend’s house before driving so that he could sober
up. (Tr. 20-21, 44-45; GE 2)
During  his  August  2022  background  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had
consumed  ten  beers  before  his  January  2022  arrest.  He  stopped  drinking  alcohol
altogether in January 2022 following his arrest. He told the investigator that he intends to
continue his abstention of alcohol in the future. He is content with his life without alcohol
and planned to abstain from drinking alcohol.
Applicant first began consuming alcohol at the age of 17. He testified that he drank
beer on  Fridays  and  Saturdays,  and  he  would  consume  anywhere  from  6  to  12  beers
each evening before he had his OVI [should be defined above] arrest in September 2016
(age 25). After that arrest, he did not drink and drive for about the first six months, but he
slowly  slipped  back  into  his  old  drinking  habits.  He  would  drive  under  the  influence  of
alcohol about once every month or two until his second OVI arrest in January 2022. Since
that incident, he has made positive lifestyle changes and no longer drinks and drives. He
has  continued  to  drink  alcohol  to  the  present  time,  but  only  on  holdays  and  family
gatherings. His last use of alcohol occurred on Thanksgiving Day 2023. He stated that he
now consumes alcohol infrequently and in moderation. (GE 4; Tr. 39-42)
During  his  August  2022  background  interview,  Applicant  provided  information
about his use of alcohol. He stated that between the age of 21 to January 2022 (age of
30), he would consume a single six-pack of beer over the course of the weekend. He did
not  get  intoxicated  from  this  level  of  alcohol  use.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  got
intoxicated one or two times a year with his friends. He stated it took 12 beers for him to
become  intoxicated.  He  is  content  with  his  life  without  alcohol.  This  information  was
inconsistent with his testimony. (GE 4)
During  the  December  2023  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  he  has  consumed
alcohol on a few occasions since  he had his August 2022 interview,  but he has never
drank to excess. During the hearing he admitted that he violated the terms of his probation
that  required  total  abstinence  from  alcohol  while  serving  probation  through  early
December 2023. He also stated that during his probation he had to undergo about five or
six urinalysis tests, and he always tested negative for alcohol and drugs. He stated that
the alcohol he consumed only stayed in his system a day or two, and that is why it was
not detected during his tests. He has control of his drinking and no longer gets intoxicated.
The last time he was intoxicated was in January 2022, the night of his arrest. (Tr. 24-25,
28-29; GE 4)
Applicant testified that the last AA meeting he attended was in October 2023. He
stated  he  intends  to  continue  his  AA  meetings  because  “it's  made  [him]  realize  if  [he]
continue[s] down that path then it's not a good life to be going through after hearing all
these  stories  of  what  everyone  goes  through.  And  it's  not  the  life  that  [he]  want[s]  to
live….” He also admitted he received a court-ordered substance abuse assessment, but
he did not know any of the details of his evaluation. He stated he would try to obtain a
copy of the substance abuse assessment as well as substantiating documentation that
he successfully completed his probation in early December 2023. He would submit these
documents while the record was held open. However, no documentation was received
while the record was held open. (Tr. 25, 36-39)
Applicant admitted during the hearing that he continued to consume alcohol which
was in violation of his probation:
JUDGE: Okay. So your probation, did your probation require you to abstain from using
alcohol?
APPLICANT: Yes.
JUDGE: So you did not abstain using alcohol during your period of probation. You violated
your probation, isn't that correct?
APPLICANT: Yes.
JUDGE: Okay. And you said you would drink alcohol like on holidays or whatever. Why
would you do that if you knew that violated your probation?
APPLICANT:  I  don't  know.  Just  poor  -- I  don't  know.  I  just  did.  I  mean,  it  was  poor
judgment on my part. (Tr. 45)
