Applicant,  36,  worked  as  an  engineer  for  a  federal  contracting  company  from
April 2017 to February 2023, when he was placed on administrative leave pending the
outcome  of  his  security  clearance  adjudication.  He  was  initially  granted  access  to
classified  information  in  September  2015,  in  connection  with  his  service  in  the  Army
National Guard.  DOD initiated  the  current  investigation after Applicant’s employer filed
an  incident  report  in  March  2018  regarding  Applicant’s  travel  to  Colombia  and  his
relationship with a Colombian national. (Tr. 29-30,33; GE 3)
In early March 2018, Applicant’s manager notified the company’s facility security
office  (FSO)  that Applicant failed to return to work  as expected  after a temporary duty
assignment  in  another  state.  When  asked,  Applicant  told  the  FSO  that  he  traveled  to
Colombia  to  visit  a  friend,  a  citizen  of  that  country.  The  same  day  the  FSO  filed  the
incident  report,  a  counterintelligence  (CI)  representative  from  the  Defense  Security
Service (DSS) interviewed Applicant at his place of employment. He admitted to the CI
representative that he traveled to Colombia in August 2017 and February 2018. He also
admitted that he was engaged to a Colombian national and he initiated the process with
the  U.S.  State  Department  to  sponsor  her  immigration  to  United  States.  He  reported
that he planned on returning to Colombia in April 2018 for his wedding ceremony. (GE
3; AE E)
On  his  April  26,  2018  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  his
marriage  to  a  Colombian  national  days  before  he  completed  the  application.  He  also
disclosed his wife as foreign national to whom he provided financial support. In addition
to his wife, he also disclosed his mother-in-law, also a Colombian national, as a relative.
He reported traveling to Colombia in August 2017, February 2018, and April 2018. (GE
1; AE D)
As  part  of  the  investigation,  Applicant  had  two  interviews  with  a  background
investigator on February 21, 2019, and March 28, 2019. During the February interview,
Applicant  told  the  investigator that  in  August  2017,  he  informed  his  supervisor  that  he
was  traveling  to  his  home  country  to  attend  a  family  event  but  changed  his  mind  and
traveled  to  Colombia  instead.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  that  he  met  his  wife,  a
Colombian national, while walking through a shopping mall. After that meeting, he told
the  investigator  that  they  spent  the  remaining  six  days  of  his  trip  together.  Upon
returning the United States, he maintained daily telephonic contact with the woman and
started supporting her financially. He denied meeting the woman before the trip. (GE 2)
When asked  by the  investigator  if he  reported  the  August 2017 trip  to  his  FSO,
Applicant explained that he was not aware of the requirement to do so.  After marrying
in April 2018, Applicant claimed to have shown his supervisor a picture of his wedding
and  provided  his  wife’s  information  to  the  human  resources  department.  He  believed
this  constituted  sufficient  notification  to  his  employer  of  his  relationship  with  a  foreign
national.  He told the investigator that after March 2018 interview with a DSS agent and
reporting
receiving  additional  security
travel  and  contact
training  on
foreign
requirements,  that  he  reported  two  additional  trips  to  Colombia  in  January  2019  and
February 2019 to his FSO as required. (GE 2)
During the second interview in March 2019, the investigator asked Applicant if he
reported his February 2018 travel to Colombia to his FSO. After claiming that he could
not remember doing so, he told the investigator that he did not report the trip because
he did not know he needed to do so. He contends that he failed to mention his failure to
report the trip in his first interview because it slipped his mind. (GE 2)
The  investigator  asked  Applicant  details  about  how  he  met  his  wife.  He  denied
knowing his wife before his first trip in August 2017. He reiterated that he met her during
the trip. The investigator pressed further:
Subject   was  asked   could  it  be   possible  that  he   met  his  spouse   before
traveling   to   Colombia.   Subject   responded   yes.  Subject   was  asked   if  he
met  her online[.]  [sic]  Subject  responded  no.  Subject was then  asked  if he
met his  spouse  on  [dating  web  site].  Subject  responded  no.  Subject was
asked  again how he  met his spouse[.][sic]  Subject  advised  that  he  met her
online   around   May  2017   but   did   not  want  to   disclose   which   site   [it]   [sic]
was, because  it is his personal  business. He  wanted  to keep  some  things
private   and   to   himself.   Subject  reluctantly   stated   that   it  was   a   dating  site
but  refused  to  provide any further  details. Subject  disclosed  that he did  not
report  this  information   the   first  time   because   he   was  embarrassed   by
meeting   his  spouse   online   and   he   did  not  want  people  to   look  at  him
differently.  (GE 2)
DOHA  sent  Applicant  a  set  of  interrogatories  to  which  Applicant  responded  in
May  2020.  He  was  asked  to  review  and  verify  the  summaries  of  the  February  and
March  2019  subject  interviews.  He  reported  that  the  summaries  were  not  accurate,
specifically, the details about how he met his wife. He offered the following correction:
Due   to   stigmatization   that   “oh   he   met  his  wife   online,”   I   did   not   disclose
that   I   met   my   wife   online  first.  I  met  my  wife   online   in   summer   2017.  We
talked  over  the  phone  and  video  call  for  a  month  or so  and  then   I  visited
her in  Colombia. She met me  at  the  airport. And  that  is how we  started  our
relationship.
Aside  from  this  correction,  he  confirmed  that  the  remainder  of  the  summary  was
accurate as captured. (GE 2)
Applicant  returned  to  Colombia  in  January  2020.  After  receiving  the  SOR  in
December  2020,  he  traveled  to  Colombia  to  visit  his  wife  in  May  2021,  July  2021,
December 2021, and February 2022. He returned to Colombia in March 2022 to serve
her  with  a  divorce  petition  because  she  would  not  complete  the  necessary  steps  to
immigrate to United States. He claims that his divorce was finalized in April 2022. That
same  month,  he  met  another  Colombian  national  online  and  returned  there  in
September 2022 to visit her in-person. He claims that after that visit he decided not to
pursue   that  relationship   or  any  other   with   a   foreign   national.    (Tr.   34-36,  41-43,   96-
97,100; AE F-G)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that the March 2018 incident report filed by his
employer also contained false  statements. He  denies the  statements in the report that
he  traveled  to  Colombia  instead  of  reporting  to  work  as  required  after  completing  a
temporary  duty  assignment.  He  also  testified  he  told  the  FSO  that  he  had  traveled  to
spend  time  with  his  girlfriend  whom  he  intended  to  marry,  not  just  a  friend.  He  claims
that everyone knew about his girlfriend in Colombia and that the relationship was not a
secret. (Tr. 94-95)
Applicant reviewed GE 7, which contains the security training he received when
he started his job in April 2017 and confirmed the signature on the training record as his
own.  He  testified  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  foreign  travel  reporting  requirements
because  he  did  not  read  the  training  materials.  He  also  admitted  receiving  annual
refresher training on the reporting requirements. (Tr. 56-70; GE 5-9)
