Applicant is a 61-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2004. He has held a security clearance since about 2004 or
2005.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1979  until  he  was  honorably  discharged  in
1981. He attended college for a period without earning a degree. He has been married
for  more  than  30  years.  He  has  four  adult  children  and  two  grandchildren.  (Transcript
(Tr.) at 15-18; GE 1, 2)
Applicant was sexually assaulted as a child, and he grew up in an abusive home.
He  has  been  diagnosed  with  complex  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  from  his
childhood trauma. He managed his anxiety over his traumatic memories for years, but
the anxiety increased as he got older. In about September 2019, he became involved in
a series of extramarital sexual encounters (“hook-ups”) in which he explored bondage,
discipline,  sadism,  and  masochism  (BDSM)  with  other  consenting  adults.  He  did  not
engage  in  extreme  BDSM,  and  no  one  was  ever  injured.  He  described  it  as  a  “sex
addiction,”  and  he  estimated  that  he  had  about  150  partners.  He  met  the  individuals
through online forums. Some of the individuals knew he worked for a federal contractor,
but  he  did  not  discuss  his  work.  He  believes  his  sexual  activities  were  related  to  his
childhood trauma. (Tr. at 18-19, 32-35; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  used  marijuana  as  a  youth,  and  then  went  decades  without  using
marijuana.  He  resumed  his  use  in  about  September  2019,  about  the  same  time  he
became  involved  with  BDSM.  His  marijuana  use  was  also  connected  to  his  childhood
trauma.  A  friend  who  was  a  Vietnam  veteran  told  him  that  marijuana  helped  with  his
PTSD  symptoms.  Applicant  used  marijuana  in  various  forms  almost  every  night.  He
usually  used  it  alone,  but  he  also  used  it  occasionally  during  his  extramarital
encounters.  At  the  time,  medical  marijuana  did  not  violate  state  law,  but  recreational
marijuana had not yet become permitted under state law. Applicant knew that marijuana
use  violated  federal  law,  was  against  his  employer’s  drug-free  workplace  policy,  and
was  inconsistent  with  his  responsibilities  as  a  clearance  holder.  He  held  a  security
clearance at  the  time, but  he  did not have  access  to  classified  information.  He  initially
bought marijuana from individuals who received it from medical marijuana dispensaries.
After  his  state  law  changed  to  permit  recreational  marijuana  use,  he  bought  the
marijuana from dispensaries himself. (Tr. at 12, 18-27, 32, 42; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant  was  stopped  by  the  police  for  driving  through  a  red  light  in  late  May
2022. The police officer noted what appeared to be marijuana and paraphernalia in the
car.  After  a  sobriety  test,  the  police  drew  blood  to  be  tested,  and  charged  him  with
driving under the influence (DUI) of liquor, drugs, or vapors. Applicant stated that he had
nothing to drink. He used marijuana the night before but nothing the day he was driving.
He  stated  that  the  blood  test  detected  no  alcohol,  and  it  was  not  tested  for  THC.  The
charge was dismissed. (Tr. at 12, 24-25; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant  reported  his  DUI  charge  to  his  employer  about  two  days  after  the
incident.  The  description  he  provided  to  his  facility  security  officer  (FSO)  is  consistent
with his testimony and is accepted as fact. (Tr. at 12, 24-25; GE 3) The FSO reported
the incident to the DoD in an incident report that contained the following narrative:
[Applicant]  stated  that he  realizes that he  will  have  to  change  his approach
to   treatment  for  his   PTSD  as  long   as   cannabis  is  not   federally  legal.  He
has  been   through   two   years  of  therapy   and   is   now   much   improved.
[Applicant] stated that he went to a  meeting Friday night and  got a sponsor
and  plan[s]  to  do  a  treatment  intensive [sic] as soon  as he  can  arrange  it.
Employee will report future status.  (GE 3)
Applicant  continued  to  use  marijuana  for  about  two  weeks  after  he  reported
himself. He stated that it was difficult to stop immediately. He has not used any illegal
drugs  since  he  last  used  marijuana  in  June  2022.  He  informed  his  wife  about  his
marijuana use, his extramarital activities, and his involvement in BDSM shortly after his
DUI  arrest.  He  also  informed  people  at  work,  his  church,  and  his  family.  He  has  not
been involved in any extramarital activities since he told his wife. (Tr. at 13-14, 24-26,
34-41; Applicant’s response to SOR: GE 1, 2)
Applicant attended Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), Narcotics Anonymous (NA), and
Sex  Addicts  Anonymous  (SAA)  meetings.  He  and  his  wife  receive  therapy  from  a
certified sex addiction therapist. Applicant is actively involved with an online community
of men who are in recovery; he attends in-person meetings once a week; and he sees a
counselor  once  a  week.  He  embraced  his  faith,  and  he  has  turned  to  meditation  and
prayer instead of sex and marijuana. He no longer associates with any of the individuals
with whom he used illegal drugs. (Tr. at 13-14, 27-31, 41; Applicant’s response to SOR:
GE 1, 2)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF-86)  in
August 2022. He reported his marijuana use and his DUI arrest. He fully discussed his
marijuana  use  and  his  extramarital  activities  during  his  background  interview  in
February 2023. (GE 1, 2)
Applicant called a witness who has worked with him for about eight to nine years.
He described Applicant as “a very honest guy to a fault actually.” Applicant informed him
and others at work about his issues. He stated that Applicant may be many things, but a
“liar is not one of them.” (Tr. at 42-47)
