In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c
and denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings
of fact.
Applicant is a 37-year-old business analyst employed by a federal contractor since
July  2020.  She  has  taken  college-level  courses  but  has  not  received  a  degree.  She
married in 2012 and divorced in 2021. She has three children, ages 16, 13, and 11.
Applicant  has  worked  for  federal  contractors  since  April  2006,  with  periods  of
unemployment  from  August  to  October  2011,  November  2018  to  February  2019,  and
January to July 2020. She has held a security clearance throughout this employment.
When Applicant submitted her SCA in February 2012, she answered “No” to the
question,  “In  the  last  seven  (7)  years,  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances?”  (GX  1  at  42)  When  she  submitted  another  SCA  in  October  2021,  she
answered  “Yes”  to  the  same  question.  In  response  to  the  question  about  the  nature,
frequency, and number of times used, she stated, “It reduces my anxiety. Usage is once
a year at most.” She estimated that she first used it in May 2002 and that her most recent
use  was  in  October  2020.  When  asked  if  she  intended  to  use  it  in  the  future,  she
responded, “To reduce anxiety, no intent to use it again.” (GX 2 at 50-51)
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in January 2022, she
admitted that she used marijuana from May 2002 to October 2020 “with various friends
and acquaintances,” such as a female friend and an ex-boyfriend. When she responded
to DOHA interrogatories in March 2023, she stated that her first use of marijuana was in
May 2002 and her last use was in October 2020. She described her frequency of use as
“rarely.” She stated that she did not intend to use it in the future. (GX 3 at 2-3)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that she was not sure why she did not disclose
her marijuana use in 2002 in her 2012 SCA. She testified that she used marijuana only
twice in her lifetime, once in 2002 and once in 2020. (Tr. 18, 22)  Her use in 2002 was
outside  the  seven-year  window for  the  question  in  the  SCA.  (Tr.  15)  She  was  only 16
years old at the time, and her 18-year-old sister, who lived in her own apartment, offered
her  marijuana.  After  Applicant’s  parents  found  out  about  her  marijuana  use,  they
prohibited her from going to her sister’s apartment. (Tr. 43) Applicant testified that, after
the incident with her older sister, she did not use it again, because she was playing sports,
went on to college, and then was raising children. (Tr. 43-44) She decided to disclose her
marijuana  use  in  her  2021  SCA,  even  though  she  knew  there  could  be  adverse
consequences, because she wanted “to be honest.” (Tr. 16)
Applicant testified that when she used marijuana in 2020, she was finalizing her
divorce, her children were at home because of COVID, and she was working at home. All
these circumstances caused her “a lot of anxiety,” and she thought the marijuana would
alleviate her anxiety, but it did not. (Tr. 20)
When   Applicant   used  marijuana   in 2020,  she   was  with   a   female friend   that  she
lived  with  for about  a  month  while  she  was going  through  her divorce and  her boyfriend
whom   she   had   dated   for  about  three   and   a   half  years.  Her  boyfriend   used   marijuana
regularly, and  he  provided  the  marijuana  that she  used  on  this  one  occasion  in 2020. (Tr.
31-33)   She   testified   that  her  boyfriend   usually  did  not  use   marijuana   in  her  presence,
because he  knew that she did not like  the  smell  and  how people  acted after using  it. (Tr.
34)  She  is no  longer involved  with  her marijuana-using  boyfriend. She  still  speaks  with
her female  friend, but she  has no  personal contact because  her friend moved  to  another
area. (Tr. 31)
At the hearing, Department Counsel cross-examined Applicant about her use of
the  word, “rarely,” in her response  to  DOHA interrogatories about the  frequency of her
marijuana  use. She  explained  that she  could  not say “never”  because  she  had  used  it
twice, and she did not say “frequent” because it would be incorrect, so she chose to say
she used it “rarely” because it was “a rare time” when she used it. (Tr. 22) She testified
that her description of her marijuana use was “just poorly worded.” (Tr. 37)
Applicant did not report her use of marijuana to her facility security officer (FSO).
She testified, “I knew it was an issue, but I didn’t know it was something that I had to go
report to my FSO.” (Tr. 34, 53) She is willing to submit to counseling or drug testing at
any time. (Tr. 42) She testified that she now deals with anxiety by exercising. (Tr. 27) She
has not sought any treatment from a medical professional for her anxiety. (Tr. 35)
When  Applicant  used  marijuana  in  October  2020,  she  held  an  active  secret
clearance, but her job did not involve handling classified materials. She testified that she
had not had access to classified information for a “very long time.” However, she holds a
public trust position and has access to sensitive information. (Tr. 45-47)
A former coworker submitted a letter attesting to Applicant’s dedication, attention
to  detail,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  (AX  A)  Applicant’s  close  friend  for  20  years
considers her a dedicated mentor, with exceptional judgment and “unwavering dedication
to  upholding  the  highest  standards  of  integrity,  honesty,  and  professionalism.”  (AX  B)
Applicant’s FSO, who is also her close friend, describes her as “a trustworthy and honest
person who is loyal to her work with the government.” (AX C)
A friend who has known Applicant for 20 years submitted a letter attesting to her
integrity,  reliability,  and  kindness.  The  friend states that  Applicant  is  a  devoted mother
who instills a strong value system in her children. She describes Applicant as a sincere,
dependable,  and  compassionate  friend  who  adapts  to  challenging  situations  with  an
uplifting attitude and positive outlook. (AX D)
