Applicant is 26 years old.  He has a Bachelor’s degree in Industrial Engineering
and  a  minor  in  Mathematics.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Project
Manager.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant has an extensive history of purchasing and using illegal drugs including
marijuana, cocaine, hallucinogenic mushrooms, Lysergic Acid Diethylamide (LSD), and
the  use  of  prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  him  include  Adderall,  Vyvanse,
Tramadol, Vicodin and Xanax.  Applicant was hired by his current employer on July 8,
2021.  He  submitted  his  application  for  a  security  clearance  in  May  2022.  Applicant
admitted  to  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR  except  allegation  1.i.,
concerning the sale of marijuana.
1.a. and 1.b.   Applicant  attended  college  from  August  2015  to  December  2020.  He
stated  that  he  started  using  marijuana  in  college,  in  July  2015,  and  continued  using  it
until March 2022, consuming it about five to seven times a week.  (Tr. p. 38.)  Given the
seven years he has used marijuana, he admits to using it over 1,000 times.  (Tr. p. 63.)
He  would  normally  use  it  in  social  settings  with  his  friends.  During  the  years  he  used
marijuana he also purchased it about once or twice a month to supply his habit.  (Tr. p.
43.)
After beginning employment  with the defense  contractor,  Applicant continued to
use marijuana until March 2022.  He stated that he stopped using it because he became
aware  of  its  potential  security  implications  and  because  he  wanted  to  change  his
lifestyle.  Applicant  testified  from  his  personal  knowledge  that  there  are  people  at  his
company who use marijuana and who hold security clearances.  Applicant provided the
names of two of these employees.  (Tr. p. 72.)  He mentioned that there are others, but
he has only learned about them through the grapevine.
1.c.  and  1.d.  Applicant has used and purchased cocaine nine times from about 2015 to
April  2021.  He used cocaine in social  settings  with  his friends.  He  stated that he  did
not enjoy it.  He also used and purchased hallucinogenic mushrooms three times from
September  2016  to  about  March  2021.  He  did  not  particularly  enjoy  this  experience
either.  (Tr. p. 47- 48.)
1.e.   Applicant  has  used  and  purchased  prescription  medications,  namely  Adderall
and  Vyvanse  not  prescribed  to  him,  from  about  August  2016  to  November  2018.  He
explained that he used it as a study aid.  He would usually use these drugs with friends
in his study group.
1.f.  Applicant used Tramadol on one occasion in October 2017.  He remembers that
he  had  pain  from  a  laceration  on  his  hand.  His  sister  had  a  pill  left  over  from  her
wisdom tooth removal, and she gave it to him.
1.g.  Applicant  used  Vicodin  on  one  occasion  in  about  July  2018.  He  suffered  a
hamstring injury while playing intramural football and a friend offered his Vicodin to him.
1.h.   Applicant  used  and  purchased  Lysergic  Acid  Diethylamide  (LSD)  on  two
occasions, once in March 2017, and again in May 2017.  He acknowledges that he was
young and naïve at the time.  He was outdoors in a nature setting or going on a hike at
the time he used it.  He stated that he did not really enjoy it, and he understood the risks
associated with the drug.
1.i.
Applicant  denied  that  he  ever  sold  marijuana.  However,  he  admitted  that  in
2017, on one occasion, he was the middleman responsible for taking the marijuana to a
friend of his, and then returning the money to another friend who owned the marijuana.
(Tr. p. 55-56.)  Applicant stated that he did not receive any money for his efforts.
Applicant used and purchased Xanax not prescribed to him on two occasions in
1.j.
about August 2015.
Applicant admitted  that he  made  a  knowing  and  conscious decision  to  use  these
drugs  when   he   did  so,  and   he   knew  that   he   was  violating   both   state   and   Federal   law
when   he   used   marijuana,  cocaine,  LSD,  and   hallucinogenic   mushrooms.     (Tr.   pp.  63-
66.)
Letters  of  recommendation
from  Applicant’s  Senior  Manager  and  other
professional  colleagues,  including  a  roommate,  attest  to  Applicant’s  high  level  of
maturity  and  job  responsibility.  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  highly  driven
professional  and  the  go-to  person  as  an  expert  in  certain  areas  as  an  Engineer  and
Data Analyst.  Applicant’s good character, work ethic, and commitment to the principles
of  integrity  and  confidentiality  are  noted,  among  other  laudatory  remarks.  Applicant
testified that his Senior Manager, who has supported him, told the security officer that if
Applicant  were to be denied his security clearance, steps  would be  taken to keep him
on the program.  (Tr. p. 75, and Applicant’s Exhibits E and I.)
Hair Drug Test results dated March 1, 2023; March 24, 2023; May 11, 2023; and
June  8,  2023,  were  negative.
(Applicant’s  Exhibits  B  and  H.)  Applicant  submitted
additional  drug  test  results  dated  August  21,  2023;  October  23,  2023;  and  December
19, 2023, which were all negative.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibits K, L, and M.)
Applicant  submitted  a  statement  of  intent  dated  March  23,  2023,  declaring  that
he will never misuse substances in the future.  He  stated that he plans to abstain from
all  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  and  acknowledges  that  any  future
involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security  eligibility.
(Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Notes  concerning  Applicant’s  performance  appraisals  indicate  that  he  was  an
excellent  performer  in  2021,  and  that  he  continues  to  be  impressive,  showing
outstanding  job  performance.  He  is  described  as  a  hard  worker  whose  skill  and
diligence has helped to make the projects successful.  He continues to be an extremely
valuable  member  of  the  team  as  he  continues  to  expand  his  knowledge  and
understanding of various aspects of his job responsibilities.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
