Applicant is a 31-year-old naturalized U.S. Citizen. He has an employment offer
from  a  U.S.  defense  contractor  that  is  conditioned  upon  his  being  granted  security
clearance eligibility. He was born in Iraq to Iraqi parents. He has a high school diploma
from an Iraqi high school. He is currently a full-time student at a U.S. college. Applicant
first  came  to  the  United  States  in  2013.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in
December 2020. He holds both U.S. and Iraqi citizenships. He has been married since
October 2019. (Tr. 25-27, 33-35; GE 1, 2; AE A)
Applicant’s  spouse  is an  Iraqi  citizen  currently residing  in Romania  (SOR  ¶  1.a).
She  was a  resident of Iraq, but she  left for Romania  in  2013.  After she  left  Iraq,  she  also
resided   in   Turkey.   She   was  a   full-time   student  in   Romania   until  she   graduated   from   a
university  in  Bucharest  in  about  November  2023.  After   graduating,  she  took   another
university class  to  allow her  to  maintain residency  in  Romania  until  she  was  granted  a
U.S. Visa, which  she  received  in  January 2024. She  plans to  come  to  the  United  States
in April 2024  when  she  finishes her class. She  plans to  reside  in the  United  States  and
has no  plans to  visit Iraq  as she  does  not like  it there and  has no  family there.  Applicant
has  occasionally   sent   her  money  as  gifts  totaling   approximately  $3,500.   They   contact
one   another  every  day  via  social  media  or  video   teleconference.   (Tr.   22,  48-62,   100-
101; GE 1, 2;  AE A)
Applicant   has  two   older   brothers   who   are   citizens and   residents of  Iraq   (SOR  ¶
1.b).  His eldest  brother and family (wife and  two  children) live in a house  that Applicant’s
mother  owns.  The   eldest  brother   is  not   affiliated   with   the   Iraqi  government.   Applicant
has weekly contact  with  him  via telephone.  His eldest brother has sent Applicant money
in  the   past  to   help  him   get  established   in  the   U.S.   In   2010   Applicant’s   eldest   brother
applied   for   himself   and   the   rest  of  his  family  to   come   to   the   United   States,   as  he   was
being   threatened   by   Iraqi  militants  for  helping   U.S.   forces.   He   has  not  yet  been
approved   for  entry  to   the   U.S.,  although   he   has  not  checked   on   his  application   status
since   2017,   because   he   saw  little   progress.   Applicant   claimed   that  his  eldest   brother
would move  to  the  United  States  if he  and  his family were  approved  for entry.  (Tr.  35-
47,  72-76, 96-97, 111, 114;  GE  1, 2)
Applicant’s  eldest  brother  worked  as  an  interpreter  for  the  U.S.  Marines  in  Iraq
during  the  Iraq  War.  Applicant  is  aware  of  two  instances  when  his  eldest  brother  was
targeted   by  Iraqi  militants   because   he   worked   for  the   U.S.   military.   In   about  2007,
members  of  the   Al  Mahdi  Army  came   to   Applicant’s  family  home   where   his   eldest
brother and  the  rest  of  Applicant’s family lived  to  threaten  Applicant’s brother.  Applicant
and   his  brother’s  pregnant  wife   were  the   only  people  home   at  the   time.  The   militants
demanded  entry and  when  Applicant would not let them  in, they sprayed  the  home  with
machine   gun  fire   and  threw a   grenade   at   it.  When  a  neighbor   came   outside   to  tell   the
militants  that  Applicant’s  brother  was  not  home,  the   militants  shot   the   neighbor  in   the
shoulder.  The  militants  eventually left without gaining  entry and  Applicant and  his sister-
in-law were  unharmed. However,  the  militants said  they  would be  back.  (Tr.  35-46,  72-
73, 111; GE  1, 2)
Applicant’s family left the family home and stayed in other locations with friends
and family  for about four years. In  about 2011, they  thought  it was  safe  to  come back
and began remodeling the home. Shortly after they came back to their home, unknown
individuals  followed  Applicant’s  eldest  brother  while  he  was  driving  and  drove
aggressively  and  dangerously  around  his  car.  Fortunately,  he  was  able  to  lose  them.
(Tr. 43-46, 111-114; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s other brother is a car salesman in Iraq who has never been affiliated
with  the  Iraqi  government.  He  is  married  and  has  two  children.  Applicant  also  speaks
with  this  brother  about  once  per  week  via  telephone.  This  brother  has  also  applied  to
come to the U.S. In September 2023, the relevant U.S. agency told him to get prepared
for an impending interview in furtherance of his application. Applicant claimed that this
brother  will  come  to  the  United  States  and  live  with  him  for  a  brief  time  until  he  gets
settled. (Tr. 76-78; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s father-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.c) and mother-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.d) are citizens
of Iraq currently residing in Romania, but they also stay for about two weeks per year in
Turkey to maintain their residency there. Applicant’s father-in-law was a “general major”
in the Iraqi military until he retired in 2017. His last post was as an assistant to the Iraqi
Minister of Defense. Applicant’s mother-in-law is retired and receives an Iraqi pension in
an unknown amount. Applicant communicates with his in-laws about once or twice per
month via social media or the telephone. (Tr. 52-55, 57, 63-72, 109-111; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  mother,  who  is  a  dual  U.S.  and  Iraqi  citizen  residing  in  the  United
States,  owns  real  property  in  Iraq  in  which  Applicant’s  eldest  brother  and  his  family
reside. Applicant has a one-third inheritance right in this Iraqi real property that is valued
at  about $200,000.  He owns  real property  in the  United  States that  is valued at  about
$324,000, in which he has about $25,000 in equity. He is several payments behind on
his mortgage. He also has an aunt who resided in the United States, but she now lives
in Dubai. (Tr. 22, 33-34, 93-96, 106-107, 114-120; GE 1, 2; AE B)
Applicant  has  never  been  a  member of  the  Iraqi  military  or worked  for  the  Iraqi
government.  While  he  is  a  full-time  student,  he  also  works  part-time  for  a  U.S.-based
healthcare  provider  and  part-time  for  a  U.S.-based  company  at  a  call  center.  He
currently earns about $41,000, annually. He has about $3,000 to $4,000 in a checking
account and a savings account with no money in it. He is several payments behind on
other consumer accounts.  He plans to  try to  find  a  part-time  job  as a  driver for a  U.S-
based corporation  providing  ride-hailing  services  to  get  caught  up  on  his debts.  (Tr.  25-
26,  90-95; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  also  has  friends  who  reside  in  the  United  States  and  socializes  with
them regularly at coffee houses on weekends. Several of his family members know that
he  is  trying  to  obtain  security  clearance  eligibility.  He  has  no  other  family  members  in
Iraq. He expressed his loyalty to the United States  over Iraq and considers the United
States his  home,  but  he  also  acknowledged  that  he  considers home  wherever he  can
get  together  with  his  family.  He  claimed  that  he  is  willing  to  renounce  his  Iraqi
citizenship  and  has  some  information  about  how  to  do  so,  but  he  has  not  begun  that
process. (Tr. 97-98, 102-106, 108-109; GE 1, 2)
Since  he  arrived  in  the  United  States  in  2013,  Applicant  visited  Iraq  for  several
weeks  in  2019  and  2022.  He  had  in-person  contact  with  his  family  members  during
these  visits.  He  visited  his  wife  and  in-laws  in  Turkey  for  20  days  in  2022  and  in
Romania for a few days in January 2024. (Tr. 28-31, 55-56, 67-69; GE 1, 2; AE A)
Republic of Iraq
In HE I, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2024,  about  the  United  States'  relations  with  Iraq  and  the  current
conditions  in  that  country.  I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  information  contained  in
those documents including, but not limited to:
The U.S. Department of State has assessed Iraq as being a high threat, “Level 4:
Do  not  travel”  location  due  to  terrorism,  kidnapping,  armed  conflict,  civil  unrest,  and
limited ability to assist U.S. citizens in country. U.S. citizens in  Iraq are at high risk for
violence  and  kidnapping.  Terrorist  and  insurgent  groups  regularly  attack  both  Iraqi
security  forces  and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and
Western companies throughout Iraq. Attacks using improvised explosive devices (IEDs)
occur in many areas of  the country, including Baghdad. Demonstrations, protests, and
strikes  occur  frequently.  These  events  can  develop  quickly  without  prior  notification,
often  interrupting  traffic,  transportation,  and  other  services;  such  events  have  the
potential to turn violent.
The  country  experienced  large-scale  protests  in  Baghdad  and  several  Shia-
majority  provinces  beginning  in  2019  and  lasting  through  2022,  with  reports  of  more
than 500 civilians killed and 20,000 or more injured. Another, similar incident in August
2022 resulted in more than 20 deaths. The government took minimal steps to bring to
justice those responsible for the violence.
Terrorist groups  and  those  inspired  by such  organizations are  intent  on  attacking
U.S.  citizens abroad.  Primary   terrorist  threats   within   Iraq   included  Islamic State   in Iraq
and   Syria   (ISIS)  and   Iran-aligned   militia  groups.  ISIS   is  a   designated   terrorist
organization,  which  is active  in  Syria  and  near the  Iraq  border.   ISIS  and  its  associated
terrorist  groups  indiscriminately   commit   attacks  and   violent   atrocities  in   Iraq   despite
improved  Iraqi government control. ISIS, militia groups, and  criminal gangs target  U.S.
citizens for attacks and hostage-taking.
There  have  been  significant  human  rights  issues  in  Iraq,  including:  credible
reports of unlawful or arbitrary  killings;  extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances
by  the  government;  torture  and  cruel,  inhumane,  and  degrading  treatment  by  the
government; and arbitrary arrest and detention.
Republic of Turkey
In HE II, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
as  of  January  2024,  about  the  United  States'  relations  with  Turkey  and  the  current
conditions  in  that  country.  I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  information  contained  in
those documents including, but not limited to:
Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  an  executive  presidential  system  and  a
unicameral  600  seat  parliament  (the  Grand  National  Assembly).  In  presidential  and
parliamentary  elections  in  2018,  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
observers  expressed  concern  regarding  restrictions  on  media  reporting  and  the
campaign  environment,  including  the  jailing  of  a  presidential  candidate  that  restricted
the ability of opposition candidates to compete on an equal basis and campaign freely.
The friendship between the United States and Turkey dates back to 1831, when
the United States established diplomatic relations with the Ottoman Empire. The United
States  condemned  the  July  15,  2016  coup  attempt  in  Turkey,  and  continues  to
emphasize  the  importance  of  the  Turkish  government's  adherence  to  policies  and
actions that build public trust in the country's democratic institutions and the rule of law,
as  well  as  upholding human  rights  commitments.  Turkey  is  an  important  U.S.  security
partner  and  has  been  a  valued  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  ally  since
1952.
On  December 14, 2020, the  United  States imposed  sanctions on  the  Republic  of
Turkey's  Presidency  of  Defense   Industries   (SSB)  pursuant  to   Section   231   of  the
Countering   America's  Adversaries  Through   Sanctions   Act   (CAATSA)  for  knowingly
engaging  in  a  significant transaction  with  Russia's main  arms  export entity  by  procuring
the  S-400  surface-to-air missile system. The  United  States made  clear to  Turkey at the
highest levels and  on  numerous  occasions  that  its purchase  of the  S-400  system  would
endanger the  security of U.S.  military technology and  personnel and  provide  substantial
funds  to   Russia's  defense   sector,  as  well  as  Russian   access  to   the   Turkish   armed
forces  and   defense   industry.  Turkey  nevertheless  decided   to   move   ahead   with   the
procurement  and   testing   of   the   S-400,  despite   the   availability  of   alternative,   NATO-
interoperable   systems   to   meet  its  defense   requirements.   This  decision   resulted   in
Turkey's  suspension   and   pending   removal   from   the   global  F-35   Joint   Strike   Fighter
partnership.
Turkey  continues  its  efforts  to  defeat  terrorist  organizations  both  inside  and
outside  its  borders,  including  the  Kurdistan  Workers'  Party  (PKK),  the  Revolutionary
People's Liberation Party/Front, and ISIS. Turkey is an active contributor in international
counterterrorism, including the GCTF and the Defeat-ISIS Coalition. However, Turkey is
a source and transit country for foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) seeking to join ISIS and
other terrorist groups fighting in Syria and Iraq, as well as for FTFs who seek to depart
Syria and Iraq. Moreover, the PKK continues to conduct terrorist attacks in Turkey and
against Turkish interests outside of Turkey including by taking hostages.
In 2020, the PKK and its affiliates claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on the
Gurbulak  customs  gate  with  Iran  that  killed  two  Turkish  Customs  officials,  a  suicide
bomber  that  struck  a  natural  gas  pipeline  near  the  Turkish-Iranian  border,  taking  the
pipeline offline for months, and a bombing in Mardin province that temporarily disabled
an  oil  pipeline  running  from  Iraq  to  Turkey.  Turkey  has  a  broad  definition  of  terrorism
that  includes  so-called  crimes  against  constitutional  order  and  internal  and  external
security of the state, which the government regularly used to criminalize the exercise of
freedom of expression and peaceful assembly.
Significant  human  rights  issues  exist  in  Turkey  including  credible  reports  of:
arbitrary  killings;  suspicious  deaths  of  persons  in  custody;  forced  disappearances;
torture;  arbitrary  arrest  and  continued  detention  of  tens  of  thousands  of  persons,
including opposition politicians and former members of parliament, lawyers, journalists,
human  rights  activists,  and  employees  of  the  U.S.  Mission,  for  purported  ties  to
“terrorist”  groups  or  peaceful  legitimate  speech.  There  are  also
reports  of  severe
restrictions on freedom of expression, the press, and the internet, including violence and
threats of violence against journalists, closure of media outlets, and arrests or criminal
prosecution  of  journalists  and  others  for  criticizing  government  policies  or  officials,
censorship, site blocking, and criminal libel laws.
The Turkish government took limited steps to investigate, prosecute, and punish
members of the security forces and other officials accused of human rights abuses; and
impunity  remained  a  problem.  The  government  took  limited  steps  to  investigate
allegations of high-level corruption. Clashes between security forces and the Kurdistan
Workers' Party terrorist organization and its affiliates continued and resulted in the injury
or  death  of  security  forces,  terrorists,  and  civilians.  The  government  did  not  release
information on efforts to  investigate or prosecute personnel for wrongful or inadvertent
deaths of civilians linked to counterterrorism operations.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  to  exercise  increased  caution
when  traveling  to  Turkey  due  to  terrorism  and  arbitrary  detentions.  Terrorist  groups
continue  plotting  possible  attacks  in  Turkey.  Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no
warning,  targeting  tourist  locations,  transportation  hubs,  markets/shopping  malls,  local
government facilities, hotels, clubs, restaurants, places of worship, parks, major sporting
and  cultural  events,  educational  institutions,  airports,  and  other  public  areas.  Security
forces  have  detained  tens  of  thousands  of  individuals,  including  U.S.  citizens,  for
alleged  affiliations  with  terrorist  organizations  based  on  scant  or  secret  evidence  and
grounds that appear to be politically motivated. U.S. citizens have also been subject to
travel bans that prevent them from departing Turkey.
Romania
Official  U.S.  Government  documents  for  Romania  contained  in  HE  IV  included
information  from  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  as  of  January  2024,  about  the  United
States'  relations  with  Romania  and  the  current  conditions  in  that  country.  I  take
administrative notice of the information contained in those documents including, but not
limited to:
In  1947,  the  United  States  reestablished  ties  with  Romania  after  World  War  II.
Relations  remained  strained  during  the  Cold  War  era  while  Romania  was  under
communist  leadership.  After  the  1989  revolution  ended  communist  rule,  Romania's
policies became unequivocally pro-Western. Romania and the United States deepened
their  relations  and  cooperation  on  shared  goals  including  economic  and  political
development,  defense  reform,  and  non-traditional  threats  such  as  transnational  crime
and non-proliferation.
In  2011,  Romania  and  the  United  States  issued  a  joint  declaration  of  strategic
partnership  for  the  21st  century.  The  two  countries  identified  key  areas  of  enhanced
cooperation,  focusing  on  political-military  relationships,  law-enforcement  cooperation,
trade  and  investment  opportunities,  and  energy  security.  In  2016,  the  two  countries
reaffirmed their commitment to this cooperation. They mutually committed to supporting
human rights, the rule of law, and peace and freedom for everyone. The two countries
are bound together through people-to-people ties in business, the arts, scholarship, and
other  exchanges.  Romania  has  promoted  great  cooperation  among  its  Black  Sea
neighbors  in  the  areas  of  defense,  law  enforcement,  energy,  economic  development,
and  the  environment,  which  complement  the  U.S.  goal  of  enhancing  stability  in  this
sensitive and important region.
Romania joined the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in 2004 and has
established  itself  as  a  steadfast  ally  of  both  the  United  States  and  NATO.  It  has
repeatedly deployed forces and assets in support of shared national security interests,
including contributions of troops, equipment, and other assistance in Afghanistan, Iraq,
Libya, and Kosovo.
The  Romanian  constitution  provides  for  freedom  of  speech  and  press,  and  the
government generally respects these rights. An independent press, largely independent
judiciary,  and  functioning  democratic  political  system  combine  to  promote  freedom  of
speech and press.
Human  rights  problems  include  police  and  gendarmerie  mistreatment  and
harassment of detainees. Prison conditions remain harsh and do not meet international
standards. Government efforts to address systematic corruption continue, but corruption
remains widespread. There are no reports that the government or its agents committed
reports  of  politically  motivated
arbitrary  or  unlawful  killings.  There  are  no
disappearances. The constitution and law prohibit arbitrary arrest and detention and the
government  generally  respects  these  prohibitions.  The  constitution  provides  for  an
independent judiciary and the  government generally  respects this provision.  There  are
no reports of political prisoners or detainees.
