Applicant is a 52-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2009.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  about  1997,
but  it  has  been  suspended  since  December  2019.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
1994. He married in 1995 and divorced in 2016. He married for the second time in the
fall of 2023. He has two adult children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 11-14, 18-19, 28, 38; GE 1, 2,
6; AE A, G)
Applicant  has  been  involved  in  a  series  of  indiscriminate  high-risk  sexual
encounters  (“hook-ups”)  with  consenting  adults  since  about  1992.  Once  the  Internet
became prevalent, he met the individuals online through various websites designed for
that purpose.  He  met the  individuals in  hotels,  houses, public  restrooms,  public  parks,
and adult bookstores. He stopped using public places in about 2014. Applicant and the
individuals  remained  anonymous  or  on  a  first-name  basis.  He  could  only  recall  two
individuals  who  he  met  more  than  once,  and  he  did  not  know  their  last  names.  He
concealed his behavior from his then wife and other individuals until about 2010. After
2010,  he  and  his  wife  had  an  open  marriage,  and  she  accepted  that  he  had  multiple
partners outside the marriage. She also had at least one extramarital partner. (Tr. at 19-
20, 37-38; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3, 5; AE M)
Applicant  and  his  then  wife  had  an  agreement  that  they  would  not  have  sex
within  24  hours  of  either  one  of  them  having  sex  with  someone  else.  He  violated  that
agreement and sexually assaulted his then wife in about 2011 and again in 2012 while
she was asleep and within 24 hours of a sexual encounter. In 2011, he engaged in oral
sex  with  her  without  her  consent,  and  in  2012,  he  digitally  penetrated  her  without  her
consent. (Tr. at 21-23, 38-39; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE M)
Applicant  and  his  second  wife  received  couples’  counseling,  and  he  received
counseling for sexual addiction from a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) from 2012
to  2014.  He  also  attended  Sex  Addicts  Anonymous  (SAA) meetings.  He  attributes  the
assaults  to  his  undiagnosed  and  untreated  bipolar  disorder  and  the  incorrect
medication, which made him hypersexual. (Tr. at 20-24; Applicant’s response to  SOR;
GE 2, 3, 5; AE M) He wrote in his response to the SOR:
The   sexual  assaults   were   committed   during   a   time   when   I  was
misdiagnosed   and   prescribed   an   antidepressant   that  exacerbated   my
manic  episodes.  Under  proper  diagnosis  and   proper  medication,   these
events would not have  occurred, and will not occur again.
Applicant’s  ex-wife  became  involved  in  an  ongoing  extramarital  relationship  in
about 2011. In about 2012, Applicant became  involved in an ongoing  relationship with
the individual who eventually became his husband. Applicant and his ex-wife separated
in about 2013. They disclosed their extramarital relationships to their children the same
year.  Applicant  informed  his  new  partner  (current  husband)  of  his  multiple  sexual
encounters,  and  they  maintained  an  open  relationship.  His  last  sexual  encounter  with
someone  other  than  his  husband  occurred  in  about  August  or  September  2023.  He
stated  that  he  has  not  had  any  extramarital  sexual  encounters  since  he  married.
Applicant  remains on good  terms with his ex-wife.  She  sincerely congratulated him on
his recent marriage. (Tr. at 18-19, 27-29, 37; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, AE K)
Applicant  has  received  treatment  from  a  psychiatrist  since  2014.  He  received
several diagnoses over the years, but he has consistently been diagnosed with bipolar II
disorder. He was prescribed different medications based on that diagnosis. He told the
psychiatrist  in  2019  that  he  was  disappointed  his  ex-wife  chose  to  end  the  marriage
after  he  sexually  assaulted  her.  He  felt  that  since  the  assaults  occurred  before  he
received the correct diagnosis and treatment,  she should have been more forgiving. In
July  2021,  the  psychiatrist  diagnosed  him  with  bipolar  II  disorder;  fetishistic  disorder
(non-living objects); amphetamine-type use disorder, intermittent relapse/remission; and
cannabis use disorder, mild. In January 2023, he was diagnosed with bipolar II disorder,
stable; amphetamine-type use disorder, in sustained remission; cannabis use disorder,
mild; and fetishistic disorder (non-living objects). (Tr. at 23-27; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 3)
Applicant used methamphetamine for the first time in about October 2018, when
it  was  offered  to  him  during  a  sexual  encounter.  Applicant  used  methamphetamine
regularly  (every  six  to  eight  weeks)  during  certain  sexual  encounters  until  about  June
2021.  He  found  that  it  enhanced  his  experience.  The  methamphetamine  was  always
provided by the other individual. (Tr. at 29-30, 40; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2,
3, 5; AE M)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
January  2019.  He  intentionally  provided  false  information  when  he  denied  using  any
illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances  in  the  last  seven  years.  He  thought  the
information would be shared  with his employer and possibly law enforcement. He was
concerned that he would lose his job and face criminal charges.  (Tr. at 42; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  June  2019.  He
again intentionally provided false information when he stated that he did not use illegal
drugs of any kind. (Tr. at 42-43; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant continued using methamphetamine after the background interview. He
realized  that  his  psychiatrist  knew  about  his  illegal  drug  use  and  that  the  DoD  had
sought his medical records. In August 2019, he reported his methamphetamine use and
compulsive sexual behavior to his employer, who in turn reported it to the DoD. He also
reported  that  he  had  been  diagnosed  with  bipolar  II  disorder.  He  discussed  his
counseling  and  treatment.  He told his employer that his next  step was  to  engage  with
the  Employee  Assistance  Program  to  find  a  therapist,  and  that  he  would  likely  start
attending  Narcotics  Anonymous  meetings.  Applicant’s  security  clearance  was
suspended in December 2019. (Tr. at 41, 44; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3, 5,
6; AE M)
Applicant continued  using  methamphetamine  after  he  reported  it  to  his employer.
He used  marijuana  for  the  first time  in early 2020  when  it was provided  to  him  during  a
sexual  encounter.  He   received   counseling   from   a   psychologist   from   July   2021   to
September  2021.  He   was   diagnosed   with   bipolar  II   disorder   and   adjustment  disorder
with mixed  anxiety and depressed  mood. (Tr. at 32; Applicant’s  response to SOR;  GE  2-
5; AE M)
Applicant stopped using methamphetamine in about June 2021, but he continued
to  use  marijuana  until  about  April  2023.  He  was  interviewed  by  a  background
investigator in January 2022. He discussed his “hook-ups” and his drug use. He stated
that  he  had  been  in  an  open  relationship  since  about  2012  with  an  individual  (current
husband) who is aware of his sexual encounters. (Tr. at 30-32; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 2, 3, 5; AE M)
Applicant told the background investigator that he used marijuana about once a
week  or  every  other  week  at  home  alone.  He  lives  in  a  state  where  marijuana
possession and use do not violate state law. He stated that marijuana helped to fight his
cravings  for  methamphetamine.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  believe  he  used  marijuana
while  holding  a  security  clearance  because  his security  clearance was  no  longer valid
as  of  December  2019.  He  thought  that  his  employer  permitted  his  marijuana  use
because he did not have a security clearance. He stated that he would continue to use
marijuana  but  would  stop  if  it  was  required  for  his  employment  or  security  clearance.
(Tr. at 33, 41, 44; GE 2)
Applicant  continued  using  marijuana  after  the  background  interview.  In  his
February 2023 response to interrogatories, he wrote that he was using marijuana about
once  or  twice  a  week.  He  wrote  that  marijuana  helped  him  stay  sober  from
methamphetamine.  He  wrote,  “If  required,  in order to  regain my  clearance, I  would  be
willing to give it up.” (Tr. at 43-44; GE 2)
Applicant  stated  that  he  has  not  used  marijuana  or  any  other  illegal  drug  since
April  2023.  He  believes  that  marijuana  is  no  longer  necessary  for  his  sobriety  from
methamphetamine.  He  tested  negative  in  drug  tests  administered  in  September  2023
and  November  2023.  He  successfully  completed  an  eight-hour  drug  awareness
program  in  December  2023.  He  signed  a  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security  eligibility.  (Tr.  at  33-35,  43;
Applicant’s response to SOR; AE B-D, M)
Applicant engaged a board-certified psychologist for an evaluation  in December
2023. He diagnosed Applicant with bipolar II disorder, most recent episode hypomanic,
in full remission; compulsive sexual behavior disorder, in early remission; and stimulant
use  disorder,  amphetamine-type  substance,  moderate,  in  sustained  remission.  He
found  that  when  Applicant  “first  sought  care  for  mental  health  symptoms  in  2011,  his
condition  was  misdiagnosed  so  he  was  prescribed  Wellbutrin  which  exacerbated  his
manic  symptoms.”  The  psychologist  reported  that  in  2014,  Applicant  was  seen  by  his
treating  psychiatrist,  who  diagnosed  him  with  bipolar  II  disorder  and  prescribed  him
mood  stabilizing  medications  with  positive  results.  The  psychologist  also  found  that
“[d]espite  finding  substantial  relief  from  mood  stabilizers,  [Applicant]  continued  to
struggle  with  impulsive  and  compulsive  behaviors.”  Regarding  Applicant’s  sexual
behavior, the psychologist found:
is  often   preoccupied   with   sexual  thoughts  and
[Applicant’s test scores]  are typically seen  as  consistent with  the  scores of
those   who   engage   in  or  have   engaged   in   sexually  compulsive   behavior.
He  admitted   his sexual behavior has  caused   problems  for him   in   his  life,
that  he   has  felt   distressed   about  his  sexual   behaviors,  and   that  he   tried
and  failed  to  stop  engaging  in  distressing  sexual behavior in the  past.  He
admitted   he
that,
historically,  his  sexual   behavior  has  created   problems   for  him   and   his
family  and   emotionally  hurt  those   in  his  life.   He  admitted   he   has  sought
treatment  for  sexual  behavior  problems.  [Applicant]   admitted   he   has  had
multiple   sexual  partners  at  the   same   time   and   has  engaged   in   risky  sex
even   though   he   knew  it  could   cause   him   harm.   He  admitted   he   had
cruised   public  places,   such   as  parks,  for  sex  with   strangers  so   that  his
sexual behavior has put him at risk for lewd conduct or public indecency.
*
*
*
Fortunately,  through  specific  treatment  for  sexual  issues,  participation  in
SAA,  effective  mood  regulation,  and  personal  growth  and  maturity,
[Applicant]  now  seems  to  have  gained  a  fair  measure  of  control over  his
sexual  behaviors.  He  has  now  been  monogamous  in  his  current
relationship  since  October  2023  suggesting  this  condition  is  in  early
remission.
The psychologist concluded:
Based  on  all  the  available  data,  [Applicant’s]  mental  health  symptoms
appear  to  be  well  controlled  with  medication  at  this  time.  He  likely  still
experiences mild mood symptoms but he has developed excellent insight
concerning  bipolar  disorder,  is  able  to  manage  his  symptoms  and  has  a
track  record  of  seeking  help  when  needed.  [Applicant]  no  longer  uses
methamphetamine and given his limited use history and the time since last
use, the risk he will relapse seems quite low. Likewise, he does not seem
to be at risk for returning to marijuana use.  [Applicant] has struggled with
his sexual identity and behavior for most of his adult life and this seems to
be an ongoing  challenge for him.  He has however, gained much through
his 10 year history of treatment and he has shown a pattern of increased
self-control over the last several years. He has now been monogamous for
more  than  three  months,  further  suggesting  mastery  over  his  sexual
behavior.
At  this  time,  based  on  the  available  data  and  given  his  current  mental
status and track record of successfully managing a clearance in the past,
it  is  unlikely  that  any  of  his  conditions  could  negatively  impact  his
reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  judgment  while  working  in  a  cleared  setting
or around classified information. (AE M)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  professionalism,
trustworthiness,  reliability,  work  ethic,  and  loyalty  to  the  United  States.  He  is
recommended for a security clearance. (AE F, H-J)
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental  Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM-5)
The  DSM-5  is  the  standard  classification  of  mental  disorders  used  by  mental
health professionals in the United States. The following is summarized from the DSM-5:
Bipolar II Disorder
Bipolar  II  disorder  is  characterized  by  a  clinical  course  of  recurring  mood
episodes  consisting  of  one  or  more  major  depressive  episodes  and  at  least  one
hypomanic  episode.  The  major  depressive  episode  must  last  at  least  two  weeks,  and
the hypomanic episode must last at least four days to meet the diagnostic criteria.
Major Depressive Episode
The  essential  feature  of  a  major  depressive  episode  is  a  period  of  at  least  two
weeks during which there is either depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in
nearly all activities.
Hypomanic Episode
A  distinct  period  of  abnormally  and  persistently  elevated,  expansive,  or  irritable
mood and abnormally and persistently increased activity or energy, lasting at least four
consecutive days and present most of the day, nearly every day.
The  episode  is  associated  with  an  unequivocal  change  in  functioning  that  is
uncharacteristic of the individual when not  symptomatic. The disturbance in mood and
the change in functioning are observable by others.  The episode is not severe enough
to  cause  marked  impairment  in  social  or  occupational  functioning  or  to  necessitate
hospitalization.
Adjustment Disorder
The  essential  feature  of  adjustment  disorders  is  the  presence  of  emotional  or
behavioral  symptoms  in  response  to  an  identifiable  stressor.  By  definition,  the
disturbance  in  adjustment  disorders  begins  within  three  months  of  onset  of  a  stressor
and lasts no longer than six months after the stressor or its consequences have ceased.
A stressor may be a single event (e.g., a termination of a romantic relationship), or there
may  be  multiple  stressors  (e.g.,  marked  business  difficulties  and  marital  problems).
Stressors may be recurrent (e.g., associated with seasonal business crises, unfulfilling
sexual  relationships)  or  continuous  (e.g.,  a  persistent  painful  illness  with  increasing
disability,  living  in  a  crime-ridden  neighborhood).  Adjustment  disorders  are  associated
with an increased risks of suicide attempts and completed suicide.
Symptoms or behaviors are clinically significant, as evidenced by one or both of
the following:
1.  Marked  distress  that  is  out  of  proportion  to  the  severity  or  intensity  of  the
stressor,  taking  into  account  the  external  context  and  the  cultural  factors  that
might influence symptom severity and presentation.
2.  Significant  impairment  in  social,  occupational,  or  other  important  areas  of
functioning.
Substance  Use  Disorder
The  essential  feature  of  a  substance  use  disorder  (including  cannabis  use
disorder  and  amphetamine  use  disorder)  is  a  cluster  of  cognitive,  behavioral,  and
physiological  symptoms  indicating  that  the  individual  continues  using  the  substance
despite significant substance-related problems.
Fetishistic  Disorder
The  paraphilic  basis  of  fetishistic  disorder  involves  the  persistent  and  repetitive
use  of  or  dependence  on  nonliving  objects  or  a  highly  specific  focus  on  a  (typically
nongenital) body part as primary elements associated with sexual arousal. A diagnosis
of fetishistic disorder must include clinically significant personal distress or psychosocial
role impairment.
