Applicant  is  48  years  old.  She  was  previously  married  from  2001  to  2011.  She
married a second time in 2014, and she does not have any children. In 2012, she earned
an associate degree in medical administrative duties and a technical degree in medical
coding. Since January 2020, she has worked for a federal government contractor as a
provider certification analyst. (GE 1)
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant started consuming alcohol around the age of 13. When she was 14 years
old, she was involved in an alcohol-related incident at high school. She and another friend
skipped school that day to drink alcohol. During lunch period, they returned to school and
were caught by a security guard. She was found to be intoxicated. In January 1989, she
was sent to an inpatient adolescent treatment center for approximately six weeks due to
her underage consumption of alcohol. (SOR ¶ 1.e) She resumed drinking alcohol after
treatment, but she also had periods of time she did not use any alcohol at all. (Tr. 19-24)
Applicant  was  arrested   in  November  2005   and   charged   with   operating   while
intoxicated  (OWI). (SOR ¶  1.d)  She  stated  that she  was  drunk and  was driving  fast to  get
home. She was pulled  over by the police for speeding. She  was found  guilty of speeding
and  OWI, was fined, was ordered  to  attend  an  educational substance  abuse  class, and
was  required  to  participate  in an  alcohol and  drug  assessment.  Applicant admitted  that
she  was  drinking alcohol regularly because  she  worked  as a bartender. She  worked  in a
bar seven  days  a  week, and  about half of those  workdays  she  would  drink shots.  (Tr. 27-
31)
Applicant  was arrested  in September 2022 and charged with OWI.  (SOR  ¶ 1.c)
She  was  found  guilty  of  operating  with  a  prohibited  alcohol  concentration.  She  was
ordered  to  complete  a  substance  abuse  assessment,  was  sent  to  an  educational
substance abuse  class,  fined,  and her driver’s  license  was  revoked  for seven  months.
Applicant had been playing darts that night, and she had consumed five or six alcoholic
beverages and some shots. She and her husband got into an argument, and she left the
bar and went to a park. The police stopped her because she was driving in a park that
was closed, and the officers soon realized she was under the influence of alcohol. About
three hours after her arrest, Applicant had a blood test which showed her alcohol tested
at .168%, well above the legal limit. (Tr. 34-41; GE 2)
The SOR alleged that Applicant currently consumes alcohol in excess and to the
point of intoxication, since at least November 2005 until at least May 2023. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
She  admitted  this  in  her  Answer,  however  she  denied  that  she  currently  consumed
alcohol to the point of intoxication three or four times a week. (SOR ¶ 1.b) She listed that
she currently consumed alcohol to the point of intoxication once or twice a week. During
the hearing, Applicant stated that she generally drinks three or four times per week and
that she has between five or six drinks per occasion. She admitted that she consumes
sufficient alcohol to be over the legal limit to operate a vehicle  a couple times a week.
She used to drink vodka, but that made her mean, so she switched to drinking beer. She
has never been referred for treatment following her alcohol assessment, and she does
not  drink  and  drive.  She  does  not  believe  she  has  a  problem  with  her  current  use  of
alcohol. (SOR Answer; GE 2; Tr. 31, 33, 41-44)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant first used marijuana at the age of 12. When she was 16 years old, she
was using marijuana multiple times each day. After her possession of marijuana arrest in
1995 as set forth below, she stopped using marijuana for approximately 10 years. She
resumed  her  use  of  marijuana  again  in  2005  due  to  back  pain.  In  about  2018,  she
switched  from  using  marijuana  to  using  “Delta-8,”  which  she  purchased  from  a  gas
station.  The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H
that  Applicant  had  used
marijuana/tetrahydrocannabinols (THC) with varying frequency from about August 1987
until at least March 2023. (SOR ¶ 2.a) She denied this allegation in her SOR Answer. She
currently has several health issues involving pain, so she intended to use Delta-8 to help
her sleep in the future. She believed the use of Delta-8 was lawful, and her continued use
does  not  adversely  impact  her  trustworthiness  or  ability  to  perform  her  employment
duties.  (Tr. 45-46, 49-53, 55)
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant was arrested in January 1995 and charged with
felony  possession  with  intent  to  deliver/manufacture  a  controlled  substance,  maintain
premises/vehicle for a controlled substance, and dealer possess a controlled substance.
In March 1995, she was found guilty of a misdemeanor charge and sentenced to a week
of  detention.  Applicant  stated  during  the  hearing  that  the  circumstances  of  the  arrest
occurred  unexpectedly  after  she  returned  to  the  apartment  from  work,  and  the  police
busted  down  the  door.  They  conducted  a  search  and  found  a  little  over  a  pound  of
marijuana in the apartment. She was unaware of the marijuana, and her then husband
explained to Applicant the guy from the apartment below was in trouble and had asked
the husband to hold the marijuana. She denied they were dealers or selling marijuana.
(Tr. 45-49)
SOR  ¶  2.c  alleges  that  Applicant  listed  in  her  January  2023  position  of  trust
application that she intended to continue using marijuana/THC in the future. She admitted
this allegation in her Answer.
After  the   hearing,   Applicant  provided   her  employer’s  “Drug-Free   Workplace
Policy.”  Her  employer’s  policy  prohibits  the   “use   of  any  Controlled   Substance   or  other
illegal  drugs,  including   marijuana   regardless   of  legal  status  under  state   law”  while  the
employee is working for the  employer.  “This Policy does not prohibit employees from the
lawful and  appropriate  use  or possession  of prescribed  medications.  However, because
marijuana  remains an  illegal drug under federal law, its use or possession  is prohibited.”
(AE C)
Character  Evidence
Applicant provided letters from her supervisor and the director of operations. Both
references described Applicant as professional, productive, and a valuable asset to the
team.  Both  references  recommended  Applicant  be  granted  CAC  access  to  continue
supporting the team and contributing to its overall success. (AE A, B)
Administrative Notice
Department Counsel submitted documentation (AN 1) from the U.S. Department
of Justice, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), dated February 13, 2023, concerning
the chemical structures of Delta-9 and Delta-8, and the application of federal law. I hereby
take Administrative Notice of the DEA’s findings, as set forth below:
The   Controlled   Substances  Act  (CSA)  classifies  tetrahydrocannabinols
(THC) as controlled  in schedule I.  21  U.S.C. Section  812, Schedule I(c)(17);
21  CFR 1308.11(d)(31). Subject  to  limited  exceptions, for the  purposes of
the   CSA,  the   term   ‘tetrahydrocannabinols’   means  only  those   naturally
contained  in  a  plant of  the  genus cannabis plant…  Delta-9  and  Delta-8 do
not   occur  naturally  in   the   cannabis   plant   and   can   only   be   obtained
synthetically, and  therefore do  not fall  under the  definition  of hemp.  Delta-9
and   Delta-8   are   tetrahydrocannabinols   having   similar chemical  structures
and   pharmacological  activities  to   those   contained   in  the   cannabis   plant.
Thus, Delta-9  and  Delta-8  meet the  definition  of tetrahydrocannabinols, and
they   (and   products   containing   Delta-9   and   Delta-8)   are   controlled   in
schedule  I by  21   U.S.C.  Section   812(c)   Schedule I;   and  21   CFR Section
1308.11(d).
