Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation. His admission is incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  statements,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  43   years  old.   He  married   in  2004   and   has  four  minor  children.  He
earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in 2005  and  a  master’s degree  in 2011. He has worked  for
his present employer, a federal contractor,  since January 2018. (Item  3; AE A)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in May 2019. In it, he
disclosed he was granted a security clearance in 2013 by another agency. In March 2023,
he  completed  government  interrogatories.  He  disclosed  that  he  has  used  medical
cannabis in edible form from March 2022 to April 2, 2023, the date before he completed
the interrogatory response. He stated he intended to continue using the marijuana in the
future, acknowledging that it is illegal under federal law. He provided a certificate to show
he is permitted to use medicinal marijuana in his state, where it is legal. He provided a
statement that the medical marijuana is prescribed to him for a medical condition; that he
follows the recommended dosage; and he only uses it as prescribed for symptom relief.
He  uses  it  two  to  four  times  a  week,  usually  in  the  evening  before  going  to  bed.  He
provided a document showing that he first applied for a marijuana certificate in October
2021, and it was granted in December 2021. (Items 3, 4 5, 6)
In Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR, he  stated  that he  uses marijuana  for medical
reasons for a diagnosed health condition, and its use was recommended by his health
care  provider.  He  obtains  the  marijuana  legally  in  his  state  from  a  licensed  medical
cannabis dispensary. He intends to use the marijuana until his medical condition improves
and his doctor modifies his treatment plan. He is aware that his state’s laws conflict with
federal  law.  He  has  tried  other  medications  with  mixed  results  and  marijuana  has  a
positive impact on his health. He stated he hoped by self-reporting his use of marijuana
that  his  trustworthiness,  reliability,  and  good  judgment  would  not  be  in  question.  He
understood he may no longer be eligible for a security clearance but chooses to focus on
his personal health. (Item 2)
In his response to the FORM, Applicant  stated his intent when self-reporting his
marijuana  use  was  to  be  honest,  transparent,  and  responsible  because  he  takes  his
security clearance and the obligations associated with it seriously. (AE A)
