Applicant is a 39-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in July 2019 and has one child from this marriage. (GE 2) He
earned  an  associate  degree  in  August  2010.  (GEs  1-2)  Applicant  reported  no  military
service.  Since July 2022, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as an
information  technology  (IT)  engineer.  (Item  2)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other
employers in various network IT-related positions. (Item 2)
Applicant’s  e-QIP  omissions  and criminal  history
Asked  to  complete  an  e-QIP  in  July  2022,  Applicant  omitted  material  facts
specifically related to his September 2021 arrest and charge for felony battery/domestic
violence by strangulation when responding to the information covered by  section 22 of
his e-QIP about felony arrests and charges. Applicant responded negatively, as well, to
the questions covered by section 22 of his e-QIP about all prior arrests (both felony and
non-felony) without any explanations for his denials.
In a follow-up personal subject interview (PSI) with an investigator from the Office
of Personnel Management (OPM) in September 2022, Applicant was asked whether he
had  any  prior  criminal offenses  covered  in  section  22  of his  July 2022  e-QIP.  (Item 3)
Before asking for Applicant’s responses, the investigator prefaced each of his questions
with his emphasis on any offenses Applicant could recollect over his entire life. (Item 3)
Responding to the investigator’s question, Applicant answered that he had not. (Item 3)
After noting  Applicant’s negative answers, the investigator confronted Applicant with his
reported prior arrests between 2004 and 2021.
Addressing  the  questions  posed  in  Applicant’s  July  2022  e-QIP,  Applicant
admitted each of the offenses inquired about by the OPM investigator with explanations
and clarifications about the circumstances of the incidents and the dispositions. (Item 3)
When asked by the investigator why he did not report these incidents in hi 2022 e-QIP,
Applicant  explained  he  either  thought  the  incident  could  potentially  look  negatively
against  him  (viz.,  the 2021  strangulation  incident),  or he  could  not  recall  the  details  of
the  incidents  (viz.,  the  remaining  2004-2005  and  2010-2011  traffic-related,  family
violence, driving on a suspended license, and battery/cruelty to children offenses. ((Item
3)
Considered  together,  Applicant’s  2022  e-QIP  omissions  and  post-e-QIP  PSI
admissions  (only  made  after  confrontation  by  the  interviewing  OPM  investigator),  and
overall credibility assessment, warrant drawn inferences that his withholding of material
information about his past arrests and charges were the result of a lack of candor and
judgment  lapses.  Never  voluntarily  corrected  with  prompt,  good  faith  explanations,
Applicant’s  material  omissions  create  continuing  security  concerns  about  his  honesty
and trustworthiness,
Other incidents covered in the SOR reflect acts of physical abuse and disregard
of his state’s traffic laws. Each of the incidents referenced in the SOR were covered in
Applicant’s September 2022 PSI.
