Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation. Her admission is incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 42 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2004. She married in
2006 and divorced in 2018. She has 17-year-old child from the marriage. She is being
sponsored for a security clearance for the first time. (Item 3)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in  March 2023. In it
she disclosed her drug use. She indicated that she uses “THC (such as marijuana, weed,
pot, hashish, etc.” She stated: “I have an active medical marijuana card for the state of
[X].” She estimated she began using marijuana in March 2022 and her most recent use
was March 2023. She further disclosed:
I have  anxiety,  and  it is  at its peak when  I’m  trying  to  fall  asleep. My doctor
recommended   trying   medical  marijuana,  as  I  have   tried   medication,
reading, exercises, melatonin, etc. I use the  medical marijuana before bed,
and  it has been  a  great help. I have  not used  marijuana  outside  of the  use
under the medical marijuana card.
I plan to continue use  before bed as a sleep  aid, I am willing to  discontinue
use   and   not   renew  my  medical  marijuana   card  if  that  will   help  me
obtain/maintain security clearances.  (Item  3)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in May 2023. In August
2023,  she  verified  the  accuracy  of  her  summary  of  interview  and  did  not  make  any
changes or additions. She confirmed that she continues to use  medicinal marijuana to
help her sleep. She uses at home and has a valid prescription. It does not violate state
law where she lives. She has never participated in drug counseling. She said she does
not associate or socialize with individuals who use illegal drugs. She is likely to continue
to use marijuana as she prefers natural prescriptions as a sleep aid but is willing to figure
out another avenue if it is required to obtain and maintain a security clearance. (Item 4)
As  part  of  her  interrogatories,  Applicant  was  asked  if  she  continued  to  use  any
controlled  substance  since  her  background  interview  in  May  2023.  She  indicated  she
continued to use medical marijuana nightly since then. She purchases it in her state where
it does not violate state law. In response to whether she intended to use this drug in the
future, she stated: “will cease use if required to do so to obtain a clearance.” (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted she uses medicinal marijuana on
the recommendation of her doctor to help her sleep. She further stated:
I have  stated,  and  I  maintain, that  I  will  forfeit/destroy  my [State  X]  medical
marijuana  certification  to  be  in compliance  with  U.S. Government  security
clearance  if so  required. I am  a  responsible, law-abiding  citizen, and  have
never/would never use any medication outside of its intended use. Outside
of medical  marijuana, I  have  never engaged  in  illegal drug  use,  or misuse
of any controlled substance.
* * *
I take my career seriously and  would not  engage  in behavior that  would be
detrimental to  the company I worked for, or my own reputation.
* * *
Additionally,  I  have  been  told  by  multiple  parties  involved  with  and
throughout this process, that my medical marijuana certification would be a
non-issue,  or  I  would  have  forfeited/destroyed  it  upon  application  for
security clearance as I offered. (Item 2)
