In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  she  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a
through 1.c. She denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.d with explanation. Her admissions are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 33-year-old lead custodian employed by a defense contractor since
August  2018.  She  previously  worked  as  a  custodian  for  the  same  company  from  May
2010 to May 2015. She has also been employed as a caregiver, solution provider for a
telecommunications company, and worked in a chicken plant. She was unemployed from
June 2008 to April 2010, May 2015 to October 2017, and February 2018 to May 2018.
She held a security clearance from 2011 to 2015. (Tr. 18, 69-72; GE 1 at 7, 12-19)
Applicant  married  in November 2006, separated  in September 2008, and  filed  for
divorce  in May 2023. She  has cohabitated  with  a  boyfriend  since  February 2018. She  has
three  children  ages, 16, 15  and  7. She  completed  the  10th  grade  and  has taken  some
GED classes but has not completed her GED. (Tr. 29-33, 69; GE 1, GE 2)
The  SOR  alleges  that:  (1)  in  about  October  2015,  Applicant  was  involuntarily
hospitalized,  received  treatment  for  psychosis,  and  was  diagnosed  with  Personality
Disorder NOS and Stimulant Disorder (SOR ¶ 1.a); (2) in about December 2015, she was
referred  for  outpatient  mental  health  counselling,  diagnosed  with  Personality  Disorder
NOS and Stimulant Disorder, and that she discontinued mental health treatment in about
October 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.b); (3) in about May 2016 she was voluntarily hospitalized and
diagnosed  with  Bipolar  Disorder  I  (SOR  ¶  1.c),  and  (4)  that  in  January  2022,  a
psychologist doing an evaluation for the DoD CAF diagnosed her with Bipolar Disorder I
and a history of Stimulus disorder, the psychologist found evidence of deceit during the
evaluation,  and  had  concerns  about  her
trustworthiness  and  reliability,  and  said  her
prognosis was poor (SOR ¶ 1.d).
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  depression  during  her  teen  years  and  was
prescribed medication to treat depression. On October 24, 2015, she was arrested and
charged  with  Obstructing  Police,  Resisting  Arrest  and  Harassment.  The  police  were
called because she “was on some type of narcotic and was combative and fighting [and]
hitting her head on the stop sign.” (GE 7 at 1-2) Her mother-in-law reported that Applicant
said she had taken an “Amphetamine Pill, [some over the counter medications], and had
smoked spice.” (GE 7  at 2) The  arresting officer wrote that she “was irate and belligerent
and  [said that]  she  was high  and  possessed  because  she  had  read  [sic] pigs in a  parlor
and   continued   to   talk out   of   her head.”  Id. She  spit on  a  police  officer when  he  tried  to
calm  her down and  repeatedly banged  her head  against  a  window  inside  a  police  car.
She  was placed  in jail for five  days and  the  charges were  later dismissed.  (GE 1  at 37-
38, GE 2 at 3-4, GE 4  at 8-9, GE  7; Tr. 28, 34-36)
In about November 2015, a judge ordered Applicant into inpatient mental health
care  and  she  was  hospitalized  for  about  one  month.  She  said  she  was  treated  for
psychosis and was diagnosed with “schizoaffective disorder.” (GE 2 at 4, GE 4 at 9) She
said she experienced an  episode  of “acute  psychosis”  and  a  “mental breakdown,” that
she experienced “auditory, and visual hallucinations,” and was very aggressive until she
received  inpatient  treatment.  (Tr.  at  36;  GE  2  at  4)  She  reported  suffering  from
undiagnosed post-partum depression at the time, and said she was impacted by the loss
of her job in April 2015, her grandfather’s death in August 2015, and was sleeping less
than two hours a night. She said she ingested a lot of caffeine and took over the counter
medications and supplements but had not taken illegal drugs or consumed alcohol. (GE
4 at 8; Tr. 30-34)
In  December  2015,  Applicant  was  referred  for  outpatient  care;  her  intake  form
stated she was diagnosed with “Psychotic disorder NOS” and “Stimulant use disorder.”
(GE 5 at 5-6) From October 2015 until May 2016, she was prescribed various medications
including  antipsychotics,  antidepressants,  and  sleep  medication.  (GE  5)  She  said  she
was too heavily medicated and described feeling like a zombie, drooling, being unable to
walk well or interact with others, and being unable to perform normal daily functions. (GE1
at 35-36, GE 2 at 2, GE 4 at 9, GE 5; Tr. 35-38)
In  about  May  2016,  she  went  to  the  emergency  room  because  she  was
experiencing  stroke-like  symptoms.  She  was  subsequently  hospitalized  for  about  five
days and diagnosed with Bipolar I Disorder. Her medications were changed and she said
the change “was wonderful, I became myself again, I could do things again. . . . I could
play  with  my  kids,  I  could  get  a  job  again.”  (Tr.  40-41)  Her  outpatient  treatment  plan
included  taking  prescribed  medications,  monthly  appointments  with  a  counselor  and  a
psychiatrist,  and  implementing  stress  management  skills.  She  complied  with  her
treatment plan until October 30, 2017, when outpatient treatment was terminated because
she  “missed  several  scheduled  appointments[.]”  (GE  5  at  47)  Applicant  attributed  her
decision to stop going to her appointments to disliking her psychiatrist, difficulty making
appointments due to her work schedule, and her medical doctor’s agreement to continue
prescribing the medications if she discontinued outpatient mental health treatment. (GE
1 at 35, GE 2 at 4, GE 5; Tr. 38-54)
Applicant said that she saw a counselor at a different mental health facility about
four times from late 2017 through early 2018. Medical records from February 7, 2018 to
May 14, 2018 and signed by Doctor (Dr.) I, Applicant’s primary care physician, show that
she was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, anxiety, and insomnia and was prescribed the
same mental health medications that had previously proven effective. (GE 2 at 5; GE 5
at  2-34)  She   said  she   told  Dr.  I  that  she   wanted   to   discontinue   her  mental  health
medications and  that he  developed  a  plan  to  “wean” her off the  medications. (Tr. 61) She
said  she   stopped   taking   her  previously  prescribed   mental  health   medications   in  about
November  2020,  January  2021,   and   December  2022,  respectively.  She   reports  no
negative   effects   or   any   significant   mental  health   issues   since   she   stopped   taking   the
medications  and   says   she   has  used   appropriate   coping   mechanisms  to   maintain  her
mental health.  (GE  2  at GE  5; Tr.  51-62)  She  has  occasionally spoken  to  a  professional
counselor provided by her employer when  she  has  felt  like  she  needed  “a  little bit of one
on one.” (Tr. 58-59)
In September 2021, Applicant agreed to participate in a psychological evaluation
requested  by  DoD  CAF.  (GE  3)  In  January  2022,  a  DoD-affiliated  licensed  clinical
psychologist and board-certified neuropsychologist evaluated Applicant. She interviewed
Applicant,  reviewed  records  including  a  DoD  background  investigation,  and  medical
records. Her Diagnostic Impressions included:
[T]he following diagnoses is appropriate at this time:
Bipolar I disorder
R/O  Schizoaffective disorder
H/O   Stimulus use disorder
The   applicant   is  not   a   reliable   historian,   and   therefore   the   diagnosis
indicated  above  is based  on  review of all  available medical records and  my
clinical judgement.  The  initial emergence  of mania  within the  records may
have  been  prompted  by stimulant use, but it appears that there have  been
other occurrences of mania  and  psychosis at times that she  was not noted
to   be   using   stimulants   (although   I  am   not  certain  that  drug   tests  would
successfully identify use  if it was via over the  counter  medications). There
are  also   indications   of  psychosis,  which   could  be   due   to   schizophrenia
(particularly given  the  family history); however, this could also be  a  symptom
of mania. Because  the  applicant lacked  candor during  this interview, I am
not able to  fully determine  if she  has schizoaffective  disorder vice bipolar
disorder.  I  am   also   unable  to   determine   if  there  are  ongoing   issues  with
stimulant  abuse,  as  she   would  not  admit  to   any  history  of  stimulant  use
whatsoever.
At the  conclusion  of  the  interview, I  asked  [Applicant] if  there was  anything
else  she   wanted   to   address.   She   replied,  “in   my  [inpatient  care  medical
records]  they said I had  a  stimulant abuse  history, but I don’t.” [Applicant]
elaborated  that  while  in  [inpatient  care  in  about November 2015]  she  had  to
submit   a   urinalysis  and   hair   test   and   that   neither   result   demonstrated
stimulant use.   There  is  clear evidence   of   deceit  in   this   case.  Therefore,   I
have significant concerns about [Applicant’s] trustworthiness.
There  are  indications  within   the   medical  records  that   [Applicant]  has  not
been   consistent  in  her  pharmacotherapy.  Her  judgement  and   insight  are
poor.  Given  her psychiatric history,  apparent noncompliance  with  treatment
at  times,   and   frank   deceitfulness  during   this  interview,   her  reliability  is
questionable.  She  may  not   follow rules and  regulations  in   the   workplace.
Overall, her prognosis is poor. (GE 2  at 6-7)
In August 2019, a lab test detected the unexpected presence of benzodiazepine
drugs  in  Applicant’s  specimen.  (GE  5  at  35)  She  repeatedly  denied  improperly  using
controlled stimulants at any time and said she did not previously know that she had tested
positive for benzodiazepine. She testified that she now understood why the psychologist
who conducted the psychological evaluation believed she was being dishonest about her
use of certain stimulants. She acknowledged that at the time of the positive sample she
“h[ad] some  [medication containing benzodiazepine]  in [her] medicine  cabinet” from  an
old  prescription,  and  that  “the  only  thing  I  can  think  of  is  that  I  took  some  of  that  by
mistake[.]” (Tr. 28-35, 63-66, 98-99)
Applicant’s  current  supervisor  observed  the  entire  hearing  at  her  request  and
testified.  He  has  known  her  for  two  years  and  has  been  her  immediate  supervisor  for
about a year. The company has many employees with disabilities and  has “counselors
on board that are available [to employees] at any time.” (Tr. 92) He first learned of many
of her past life experiences and mental health challenges during the hearing and said that
he  would  never  have  known  about  them  otherwise.  She  is  one  of  the  company’s  top
employees, always on time, reliable, and has a great work ethic. She has earned his and
other supervisors trust and was very aware of responsibilities associated with a security
clearance.  She  has  successfully  dealt  with  many  stressful  situations  and  additional
responsibilities.  He  recommended  she  be  granted  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information without hesitation or reservation. (Tr. 7-9, 17, 91-97)
At hearing, Applicant was informed  of the  importance  of submitting  documentary
evidence   to   corroborate   her  testimony  including   examples  of   potentially  relevant
information.  She  did  not submit any documentary evidence  after the  hearing.  (Tr. 13, 80-
91, 97-100)
