Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  31  years  old.  In  his  November  2022  security  clearance  application
(SCA), he disclosed that he began attending college in 2011 and has continued to the
present.  In  2016,  he  earned  an  associate  degree.  He  is  working  towards  a  bachelor’s
degree. He has worked for a federal contractor since 2022. He has not married and has
no children. (Item 2)
The  SOR  alleges  two  delinquent  accounts  to  the  same  creditor  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  -
$22,616 and 1.b - $12,609). A December 2022 credit bureau report reflects both debts’
last activity and report dates were November 2022, and their status is charged off. (Item
5)
In  January  2023,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He
acknowledged these accounts were for private student loans from a financial institution.
He said he was unaware they were in collection because his mother was paying them,
and he did not know what led up to the financial issues. (Item 3)
Applicant completed government interrogatories in April 2023. He was asked about
the  status  of  the  two  alleged  debts.  He  indicated  they  were  not  paid,  but  payment
arrangements were made and payments were being made, respectively, as to each of
the  two  debts.  In  his  response,  he  said  that  he  did  not  include  any  supporting
documentation  with his  interrogatories.  He  stated:  “Both  of  those  were  payments  for a
student  loan  for  college  that  was  transferred  to  my  mother’s  account,  currently  she  is
paying for the loan on her account.” He further stated that when he first started college,
he did not sign up for Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). He said: “[S]o I
had decided to take a loan from [credit union] with my mom and currently it is being paid
under her account.” Applicant has not provided any supporting documents that the loans
are not his responsibility, have been transferred  to his mother, and are being paid. He
has since obtained additional student loans through FAFSA. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted both debts and stated:
Both   of  those   are  from   my  tuition   for  [college]  which   should  from   my
understanding  was transferred  over to  my mother’s account to  be  paid for
under her [credit union] account. (Item 2)
Applicant did not  provide  any  documents to  show these  debts do  not belong  to  him  and
are  now the  responsibility of his mother. A  personal financial statement was provided. It
reflects that Applicant’s current annual salary is $56,622. He  does not list any payments
being made for these loans. He has approximately $2,208 net remainder each month.
