Applicant is a 23-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for her
employer since about August 2019. She is a highly regarded employee as evidenced by her
manager’s letter of support, positive feedback from her colleagues, evaluation comments,
and employee statistics rating. (AE B; AE C; AE E; AE H.) Her employer has placed her in
a  position  of  responsibility  handling  sensitive  applications,  and  she  has  received
compliments from those her work supports. (Tr. at 74; GE 1; AE B; AE C.) In addition to her
current employer, she recently has started  working  again for her father’s company,  which
she reported this work to her security team. She also worked for her father in high school.
(Tr. at 73.)
Applicant graduated high school in June 2019 with a 4.2 grade point average and an
early  college  scholar  agreement.  After  graduating  high  school,  she  attended  community
college until October 2019. (GE 1; AE G.) She married in April 2020 at age 19. The couple
lived  in  a  small  one-bedroom  apartment  during  COVID.  She  testified  she  experienced
emotional abuse and some physical abuse during the marriage, which was very stressful for
Applicant. She separated from her husband in early 2022, and their divorce was finalized in
the Spring of 2023 (Tr. at 20-21; GE 1.)
Mental  Health  Treatment
Applicant  first  sought  mental  health   treatment  in  about  November   2020   after  her
suicide  attempt.  (SOR ¶  1.a) As a  youth  she  suffered  from  mental health  issues  triggered  by
a  harsh home  environment and  being  sexually assaulted  as an  early teen.  (GE  at 32-33.)
She  experienced  suicidal ideation  since  age  seven  and  has  attempted  suicide  approximately
20  to  30  times. (SOR ¶  1.b) Given  her home  environment she  did not  have  the  support from
her family going  through  these  events as a  child.  (Tr. at 39.) It  was not until November 2020
after she  was hospitalized  for five  days after her suicide  attempt that she  first began  mental
health   treatment.   The   COVID  pandemic  made   it  especially  challenging   to   find   a   care
provider accepting  new patients.  In  February 2021  she  started  treatment with  X. (Tr. at 25-
26; 41.)  She  had  to  decline  the  partial hospitalization  program  from  the  hospital because
she  did not have  the  sick leave  and  she  had  to  work in order for her to  not  lose  her apartment.
Applicant diligently sought to maintain a treatment plan while continuing to work and
deal  with  health  insurance  coverage  and  costs.  Between  November  2020  and  February
2021, during COVID, she was searching for a mental health care provider, she continued to
get medication from the hospital where she had been hospitalized. (Tr. 41.) She was looking
for a therapist but schedules, therapy styles, and cost were constraints. (Tr. at 44.)
In February 2021, Applicant contacted the police because she did not feel safe at her
home  and  was  transported  to  a  crisis  center.  Her  husband  was  yelling  at  her  and  when
things got tense her husband would block her from leaving the apartment. He physically held
her to stop her from leaving their apartment.  The only place she could go to get out of the
situation was the bathroom where she could lock the door. She called 911. The police were
concerned about the situation and sent her to the crisis center based on her past history,
but  after  speaking  with  the  counselor  there,  they  determined  that  her  safety  was  not  a
concern. She was able to pay the bill for the crisis center. (Tr. at 46.) After she was able to
get out of her relationship with her abusive husband, her life improved dramatically. While
this personal situation was ongoing, she continued to work and excelled with her employer.
(AE B; AE C; AE E; AE H.)
Applicant was treated at a behavioral services practice, hereafter PT, from February
2021 until February of 2022. (AE A.) At her final session with PT, she had her medication
filled through June of 2022. (Tr. at 47.) She was able to maintain her medication until she
started seeing Dr. B (counsel and the Applicant refer to a psychiatric nurse practitioner as
Dr. B throughout the hearing) in approximately September 2022. Dr. B is a psychiatric nurse
practitioner  who  specializes  in  treatment  of  adults  and  is  able  to  provide  medication
management for mental health disorders. Because Applicant’s situation had improved, she
has not been seen as frequently by her care provider, now she has appointments generally
60 to 90 days for maintenance. (Tr. at 49.) For medications she uses a weekly organizer to
track  her  medications.  She  dispenses  everything  into  each  day,  so  it  is  easy  for  her  to
remember, and she does not miss prescribed dosages. (Tr. at 64.)
Applicant  testified  she  could  barely  afford  rent  alone  and  her  medications,  so
additional inpatient therapy was not an option for her. Since January 2022,  she has lived
without  roommates,  partners,  or  any  type  of  financial  support  from  others.  She  has
maintained all of her finances. She has been able to function and provide for herself. She
mentioned in her psychological evaluation with the doctor from the DOD that the one thing
holding her back from getting therapy was cost. (Tr. 43-44; AE D.)
Applicant credibly testified about her struggles and how they improved once she was
separated from her husband. She acknowledged dealing with self-harm urges and passive
suicidal ideations. Both of these issues stopped shortly after separating from her husband.
She acknowledged living by herself for the first time took some adjusting. She explained her
practice  of  using  a  journal  to  deal  with  her  anxiety.  In  her  journal  she  writes  down  her
thoughts if she feels a panic attack coming on and then doing a follow up every 10, 15, 20
minutes to see how her mindset had improved. By going back and reading her notes and
reflecting on them has enabled her to learn how to avoid the situation again. (Tr. at 52.) She
started this practice while seeing PT. She has kept this journal since November 2020. She
also participates in weekly art therapy, which she finds relaxing. (Tr. at 53.) She has had no
incidents of self-harm since the June of 2021 cutting incident. The last time she had even
passive  suicidal  ideations  was  a  few  months  after  she  separated  from  her  husband  in
February of 2022. (Tr. at 61.) Besides the prescribed activities, art therapy and writing, she
does as much gardening as her apartment allows, as well as, cooking and cleaning to calm
herself.  She  also  maintains  regular  exercise  schedule  involving  a  combination  of
weightlifting, Pilates, and yoga. (Tr. at 68.)
As  part of  Applicant’s treatment,  she  was  prescribed  a  service  animal,  a  cat, by  a
nurse practitioner at PT. The animal is certified but limited to her residence for emotional
support.  She  has  had  the  cat  for  two  years.  The  animal's  presence  is  very  relaxing  and
comforting by its warmth and purring. She testified the cat is like the art therapy or journaling,
which has helped her deal with her anxiety. (Tr. at 55, 56.)
Applicant now has support from her family. Her parents live locally, and she normally
visits her parents every weekend. She also started working parttime again with her father.
She  sees  her  sisters  a  little  less,  approximately  a  couple  times  a  month.  She  described
issues with her older sister growing up that have been resolved so that they have a “perfectly
fine relationship.” (Tr. at 54.) Besides family and work she sees some friends outside of work
occasionally. (Tr. at  64.)
Applicant relies on Dr. B’s December 2022 assessment. Dr. B met with her in the fall
of 2022 and reviewed Applicant’s  file. In addition to the assessment, Dr.  B continued her
medication regime she had been on since PT. (Tr. at 58.)  The coping mechanisms have
helped her with her anxiety so that she has not taken that medication in the past year. (Tr.
at 58.) In 2020,  she did  not have a good support network,  she has  worked on becoming
more involved and now has a good support network and has a treatment program, which
includes medication management for mental health disorders. (Tr. at 37, 49 76; AE F.)
DOD  Psychological  Evaluation  - June  2022
The  DOD  requested  that  Applicant  undergo  a  psychological  evaluation.  The
evaluation was conducted on June 6, 2022, by a licensed psychologist (hereinafter referred
to as psychologist or DOD psychologist) who was contracted from private practice by the
DOD. The whole appointment lasted for approximately an hour to an hour and a half. (Tr. at
68.) A report of the evaluation was prepared on June 22, 2022. (GE 3.)
The psychologist’s evaluation included a review of background information, including
mental  health  treatment  records  provided  by  the  DOD.  Applicant’s  most  recent  SCA.
Additional data was collected via clinical interview and observations and administration of
the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) and the post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD)
Checklist for the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual for Mental Health (DSM-5), PCL-5. (GE
3 at 1.) At the evaluation the psychologist described Applicant’s thought content as normal
with no psychotic features noted. She was forthcoming, respectful, and cooperative during
the evaluation. The psychologist described Applicant’s insight as intact and her judgment as
good  and  that  she  answered  all  questions  asked  of  her.  The  psychologist  noted  her
responses to questions were adequate and informative and she did not appear to be making
attempts  at  deception  during  the  evaluation.  (GE  3  at  4.)  During  the  testing  part  of  the
evaluation  the  psychologist  noted  there  was  no  evidence  to  suggest  that  Applicant  was
trying to portray herself as being relatively free of common shortcomings or minor faults to
portray herself in a more negative or pathological light than the clinical picture would warrant.
(GE 3 at 5.) The psychologist diagnosed her “with Post-traumatic-stress disorder, chronic,
and Major Depressive Disorder, Recurrent, conditions that could pose a significant risk to
[her] judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information. Due
to a lack of well-established coping skills and a lack of medical opinion from [her] current
provider, [her] prognosis is guarded.” (SOR ¶ 1.c.)
Consistent  with  her  own  medical  records  Applicant  reported  to  the  DOD  several
suicide attempts while she was a child but not reported to family until the November 2020
attempt,  which  resulted  in  her  hospitalization.  She  described  the  harsh  family  life  and
relationship with her mother and older sister when she was a preteen. (GE 3 at 4.)
The DOD psychologist noted Applicant has a number of supportive relationships to
serve  as  a  buffer  to  her  situational  stress.  These  relationships  provide  a  relatively  intact
social support system and are a favorable sign for future adjustment. (GE 3 at 6.)
The DOD psychologist noted Applicant’s past psychiatric difficulties cannot be a basis
for  vulnerability  to  blackmail,  pressure,  or  coercion  because  her  history  is  well  known  to
others  in  her  life.  The  psychologist  noted  Applicant  appeared  to  be  complying  with  her
current  treatment  recommendations  and  had  acknowledged  symptoms  of  depression,
anxiety,  and  noted  that  she  has  continued  to  experience  passive  symptoms  of  suicidal
thoughts. The psychologist noted that due to a lack of information, she did not have objective
information  concerning  the  subject's  treatment  progress  over  the  past  year  and  her
prognosis in terms of risk recurrence. (GE 3 at 7.)
The record shows Applicant was generally consistent in her clinical interviews and
self-report  measures  concerning  her  history  of  sexual  abuse,  suicidal  ideations,  suicide
attempts, and self-harm. After separating from her husband, she is no longer having passive
suicidal  ideations  or  self-harm  urges  and  no  suicide  attempts  since  the  November  2020
incident. (Tr. at 50, 51-52; 53; AE A at 7.) Her current care provider signed the DOD form
affirming that she does not have a condition that could impair her judgment, reliability, or
trustworthiness. (AE F.)
