Applicant  is  29  years  old.  She  is not  married  and  has  no  children.  She  has  a
Master’s  degree.  She  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Scheduler  and  Risk
Analyst  (Junior  position).  She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with her employment.
Applicant’s  recent  criminal  conduct  on  July  31,  2022,  involves  retail  theft  and
receiving  stolen  property.  She  has  not  been  open,  honest,  and  upfront  with  the
Government about this misconduct.  She has no prior military service.
Applicant graduated from college  with her Masters degree in 2022.  She began
working  for  her  current  employer  in  November  2022.  She  has  never  held  a  security
clearance before.
On September 8, 2022, Applicant was charged with Retail Theft-Alter Label/Price
Marking  and  Receiving  Stolen  Property.  She  admits  to  being  charged  and  sentenced
for committing these two criminal offenses as set forth in allegation 1.a., of the SOR, but
denies  that  she  knowingly  and  intentionally  changed  the  bar  code  stickers  on  the
merchandise to steal the items, as set forth in allegation 1.b., of the SOR.
A  police  report  of  the  incident  indicates  that  on  about  July  31,  2022,  a  suspect
was  observed  placing  different  bar  code  stickers  on  approximately  19  items  of
merchandise at a Walmart.  The stickers were of low dollar value, (94 cents which was
a  bar  code  for  a  side  plate,  97  cents  which  was  a  bar  code  for  a  balloon,  and  $1.57,
which  was  a  bar  code  for  a  vase).  These  low-priced  bar  codes  were  used  by  the
Applicant and placed on 19 other items, some which were higher priced items to include
a 65-inch television, a vacuum cleaner, and a bed in a bag, among  other things.  The
value  of  the  19  underpriced  items  combined  was  about  $872.67.  The  police  officer
investigating this case found Applicant to be the suspect and confronted her.  Applicant
did not refute the narrative the police confronted her with.  She told the police that she
immediately wanted to pay Walmart back and not be charged.  The police told her that
avoiding charges was not an  option.  Applicant gave her address to the police so that
they could send her citation to her.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
In  response  to  interrogatories  dated  June  21,  2023,  Applicant  was  less  than
candid with the Government in explaining her version of the event.  She stated that she
used a self-checkout register at a Walmart.  After scanning all of the items in her cart,
she  paid  and  left  the  store,  thinking  that  everything  had  been  accounted  for  as  usual.
She received a citation for her criminal conduct months later.  She stated that she could
not  understand  how it  happened  other than a  possible malfunction with  the  self-check
out  machine.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant  was  not  truthful about  how  this  theft
occurred.  She  did  not  admit  her  misconduct  nor  was  she  upfront,  candid,  or  honest
about it.
In  her  personal  subject  interview  dated  January  18,  2023,  Applicant  stated  that
the incidents occurred the day before she was leaving the state, and she was in a hurry.
She  stated  that  she  knows  she  scanned  all  of  her  items,  but  she  is  not  sure  how  the
items  registered  differently  on  the  system  of  receipt.
(Government  Exhibit  8.)  Any
reasonable  person  would  know that  if  you  purchased  19  items  and  some of  the  items
were  large  items,  you  should  expect  to  pay  a  fairly  large  bill.
Instead,  Applicant
changed  the  stickers  to  be  able  to  purchase  multiple  items  of  merchandise  at  a  lower
price.  She deliberately changed the stickers.  She knew what she was doing.  If there
had been a mistake of some sort, or a misprint on something that she did not cause, a
reasonable person would have flagged down the store clerk to report the discrepancy.
Applicant has hired an attorney to have her case dismissed and expunged from
her  record.  Because  Applicant  had  no  prior  criminal  history,  she  was  given  some
leniency  on  her  sentencing.  On  November  2,  2022,  Applicant  was  accepted  into  the
Accelerated Rehabilitative Disposition program, placed under 12 months of supervision,
ordered to perform one day of community service, complete an online course on Retail
Theft, pay about $872 in restitution to Walmart, and pay about $1,243 in other costs and
fees.  Applicant  is  either  currently  still  on  probation  or  has  just  recently  completed  her
probation for committing these offenses.
Applicant was not completely truthful when she answered interrogatories in June
2023,  when  she  failed  to  disclose  the  full  extent  of  her  criminal  conduct  as  discussed
above.  She  failed  to  disclose  that  she  changed  the  price  codes,  and  then  scanned
these  erroneous  price  codes  for  merchandise  in  order  to  obtain  about  $872  worth  of
items at a Walmart or about July 31, 2022.  Applicant was not truthful about her criminal
conduct.  In fact, Applicant attempted to deceive the Government by not fully disclosing
the truth about it when she answered the interrogatories.
