Applicant  is a  43-year-old  naturalized U.S.  citizen.  He has an employment  offer
from  a  U.S.  defense  contractor  that  is  conditioned  upon  his  being  granted  security
clearance eligibility. He was born in Iran to Iranian parents. He has a bachelor’s degree
and a master’s degree from an Iranian university. He was working toward his Doctor of
Philosophy  (PhD) degree  at  an Iranian university,  but he was  “fired”  from  the program
because he practices a religion not authorized by the Iranian government. Applicant first
came  to  the  United  States  in  2011.  He  was  assisted  in  this  effort  by  the  Hebrew
Immigrant Aid Society (HIAS). (Tr. 23-27, 31-33, 42, 51-52; GE 1-3)
Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  April  2017.  He  solely  holds  U.S.
citizenship, as he renounced his Iranian citizenship  in 2017. He has been married and
divorced twice. His first marriage was to an Iranian woman from 2008 until 2014. They
were  married  in Iran and  divorced shortly  after entering the  United States. His  second
marriage was to a U.S. citizen from 2019 until August 2021. From his first marriage, he
has a 14-year-old child, who is a dual U.S. and Iranian citizen and who resides with him
in the United States. (Tr. 23-27, 31-33, 42, 51-52; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s  mother (SOR ¶ 1.a), sister (SOR ¶ 1.b), three brothers (SOR ¶ 1.c),
and several aunts and uncles  (SOR ¶ 1.d) are citizens and residents of Iran. All these
family members, except for one of his brothers, are in various stages of emigrating from
Iran to come to the United States. Applicant is not aware of the whereabouts of this one
brother.  He  has  not  seen  or  been  in  contact  with  this  brother  after  the  Iranian  Islamic
Revolutionary  Guard  Corps  (IRGC)  abducted  this  brother  without  charge  in  2003.  (Tr.
29-30, 36-42, 54-61; GE 1-3; AE A, B)
Applicant and the rest of his family members listed in the SOR have left or are in
the  process  of  leaving  Iran  with  the  assistance  of  HIAS  because  they  are  part  of  a
religious  minority  in  Iran.  As  a  result  of  their  religious  beliefs,  the  Iranian  government
has  repeatedly  and  consistently  violated  their  human  rights.  In  addition  to  his  brother
being  abducted,  his  now-deceased  father  was  arrested  without  charge.  Also,  in  about
2007,  the  IRGC  arrested  Applicant  for  playing  unapproved  religious  music  in  a  public
square and held him in jail for several days. A few weeks later, the IRGC took him from
his workplace and held him in a cage in an unknown location for several weeks without
charge.  The  IRGC  tortured  him  physically  and  psychologically  and  repeatedly
threatened to kill him. (Tr. 27-42, 44-46, 50, 54, 66-69; GE 1-3; AE A, B)
When  the  IRGC  finally  released  Applicant,  one  of  their  members  told  Applicant
that it would be best for him to leave the country but took his passport and told him he
had to buy it back. Without his passport, Applicant could not leave and was subjected to
further  abuse  such  as  receiving  threatening  phone  calls  and  having  his  vehicle
damaged. In the meantime, Applicant applied with HIAS for assistance to leave Iran for
the United States. In 2011, two days before he was scheduled to leave Iran with HIAS’s
assistance, he bought back his passport  for $20,000. When he asked the individual to
whom he paid for his passport if it was valid, the individual responded that it was valid
because the Iranian Government wanted him to leave. (Tr. 31, 33-38, 42-45; GE 3)
Applicant,  his ex-wife,  and  his daughter  left  on  a  flight  for Vienna,  but  were  not
sure if the Iranian Government would stop the plane until a flight attendant announced
that they were in Austrian airspace. He flew to the United States after staying for about
five  months  in  Vienna  while  finalizing  his  U.S.  immigration  paperwork.  The  entire
process of working with HIAS until he came to the United States took a little under three
months.  He  has  not  been  back  to  Iran  since  then  and  has  vowed  never  to  go  back
again.  He  has  not  received  any  threats  or  been  contacted  by  the  Iranian  Government
after he came to the United States, but the Iranian Government has continued to target,
harass, and  intimidate his family members that remain  in Iran. Suspected members of
the IRGC also caused Applicant’s family to close their business by repeatedly targeting
it for theft and vandalism. (Tr. 31, 42-45, 47-48, 53-54, 60, 66-69; GE 3)
Applicant  described  the  process  that  HIAS  is  using  to  assist  him and  his family
members. After obtaining a sponsor in the United States and applying for immigration to
the  United  States,  HIAS  provides  its  enrollees  with  a  case  number.  HIAS  then  works
with  U.S.  immigration officials  to  facilitate  their  entry  into  the  United  States.  Once  that
process reaches a certain point, each enrollee must pay HIAS $3,100, which it will later
give  back  to  the  enrollee  so  that  the  enrollee  has  enough  resources  to  support
themselves in the United States. After an enrollee pays the money, HIAS books a flight
for  them  to  leave  Iran  for  the  United  States  via  either  Croatia  or  Vienna.  It  is  unclear
how long this process normally takes. (Tr. 44-49, 54-60; GE 2, 3; AE A, B)
Given U.S. immigration policy from early 2017 until early 2021, the HIAS program
from Iran was paused and only recently began again. Applicant’s mother and sister first
applied for relocation to the United States with HIAS in 2015. They have each paid the
$3,100  and  they  are  scheduled  to  fly  to  Croatia  in  early  March  2024,  where  Applicant
will meet them and assist with his elderly mother. Applicant expects that they will stay a
few days in Croatia finalizing paperwork before coming to the United States. (Tr. 44-49,
54-60; GE 2, 3; AE A, B)
Two of Applicant’s brothers that are listed in the SOR  have case numbers  from
HIAS, as well. They first applied for relocation in 2017. Applicant is sponsoring them for
entry  into  the  United  States.  They  have  not  received  flight  information,  nor  have  they
paid the required $3,100. However, they have the required money to provide when it is
requested. It is not clear when or whether they will leave Iran, but they intend to do so.
(Tr. 48-49, 55-57, 59; GE 1-3; AE A, B)
Applicant’s  aunts  and  uncles  listed  in  the  SOR  also  have  HIAS  case  numbers.
They  first  enrolled  with  HIAS  sometime  during  the  Obama  administration.  They  are
being sponsored by U.S. citizens who live in the United States. They have not received
flight  information,  nor  have  they  paid  the  required  $3,100.  However,  they  have  the
required money to provide when it is requested. It is not clear when or whether they will
leave Iran, but they intend to do so. (Tr. 60-62; GE 1-3; AE A, B)
Applicant has not seen any of his family members in Iran in about 14 years. He
does not often  communicate with them because he is worried  the Iranian Government
could be monitoring them and cause them trouble. In addition to his daughter, he has an
older  sister,  nieces  and  nephews,  many  cousins,  and  an  aunt  and  uncle  who  are
citizens  and  residents  of  the  United  States.  While  he  does  not  currently  own  real
property in Iran or in the United States, he has a bank account with a U.S. based bank
with  about  $30,000  in  it.  He  also  has  a  U.S.-based  retirement  account  with  about
$17,000 in it. He works here and he is a member of a U.S.-based linguists’ organization.
(Tr. 46, 53, 63-66; GE 1-3)
Applicant considers himself an American and does not identify as Iranian. He has
never  been  associated  with  the  Iranian  Government.  He  attempted  to  join  the  U.S.
military  but  could  not  for  health  reasons.  He  applied  to  work  for  another  government
agency, but it did not hire him. It was clear from his testimony that he has nothing but
contempt for the current Iranian regime. He is not looking for more money by attempting
to be hired for this new job, and he will be making about the same amount  as with his
current job. He wants to obtain a security clearance and work this new job as a way of
showing his loyalty to the United States, and showing his gratitude for the freedoms that
living here has afforded him.  He has not told any of his family that he is attempting  to
obtain a security clearance. (Tr. 51-53, 70-71; GE 1-3)
Republic  of Iran
In HE I, the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State
about the United States' relations with Iran and the current conditions in that country. I
take  administrative  notice  of  the  information  contained  in  those  documents  including,
but not limited to:
Iran  is  an  authoritarian  theocratic  republic  with  a  Shia  Islamic  political  system.
Shia clergy and political leaders vetted by the clergy dominate key power structures in
the  country.  Iran's  Supreme  Leader  is  the  head  of  state  and  holds  constitutional
authority over the judiciary, government-run media, and other important institutions.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  advises  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iran  due  to
the risk of kidnapping and the arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citizens. Since 1984,
Iran  has  been  designated  by  the  United  States  as  a  state  sponsor  of  terrorism.  Its
support  of  terrorist  organizations  throughout  the  Middle  East  creates  instability  in  the
region. Iran threatens U.S. persons directly and through proxy attacks, particularly in the
Middle East.
Iran's growing expertise and willingness to conduct aggressive cyber operations
make it a major threat to U.S. and allied networks and data. As of 2018, all previously
suspended  sanctions  imposed  on  Iran  were  reinstated  with  the  goals  of  permanently
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, ceasing Iran's development of ballistic
missiles, and ending Iran's broad range of malign activities.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  identified  significant  human  rights  issues  in
Iran. The issues include unlawful and arbitrary killings by the Iranian Government or its
agents;  forced  disappearances  attributed  to  the  government;  torture  and  inhumane
treatment  by  the  government  and  its  agents;  the  imprisonment  of  political  opponents;
severe  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  the  media;  serious  restrictions  on  political
participation; and government corruption. (HE I)
