Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  senior  systems  administrator  employed  by  a  federal
contractor  since  September  2018.  He  received  an  associate  degree  from  a  technical
institute in July 2008. He has never married and has no children.
Applicant worked in non-federal jobs after receiving his associate degree until he
was hired by a federal contractor in July 2009. He received a security clearance in June
2009.  From  August  2009  to  August  2012,  he  was  assigned  to  duties  as  a  contractor
employee  with  U.S.  Marines  in  an  overseas  location.  While  assigned  to  duty  with  the
Marines, he was reprimanded by his civilian employer for his conduct on one occasion.
The  record  does  not  reflect  the  conduct  for  which  he  was  reprimanded.  After  his
employer’s contract ended in August 2012, he worked for other federal contractors. At the
time he submitted his SCA, he had been working for a federal contractor since October
2017. He was terminated from this employment in August 2018 for reasons set out in the
SOR, and he was hired by his current employer shortly thereafter.
Applicant’s  job  description  while  working  for  his  former  employer  as  the  senior
systems  administrator  made  him  responsible  for  “ensuring  the  reliable  operation  of  IT
systems.” His specific duties and responsibilities included providing server management
of  classified  and  unclassified  networks;  providing  configuration,  support,  maintenance,
and  troubleshooting  of  systems,  servers,  and  desktops;  and  establishing  scripts  to
automate the team’s infrastructure task, patching, and other operations duties. (GX- 3 at
20)
Applicant testified that his first year with his former employer went well, but after
the  leadership  changed,  several  employees  were  replaced  with  outsiders  who  had
worked  for  the  new  leadership.  Because  he  did  not  believe  that  the  new  leadership
understood the requirements of his job, he began searching for a new job. He accepted
an offer from his current employer while still working for his former employer. (Tr. 15-16)
Applicant  testified  that  on  August  20,  2018,  while  he  was  still  employed  by  his
former employer, he was verbally informed by his immediate supervisor that he was being
terminated because of his “hostile behavior” toward a senior executive of the company at
a meeting two days earlier, by removing his glasses and rubbing his forehead while the
senior executive was speaking. Applicant testified that he was upset at being terminated
and asked his supervisor what the real reason was for his termination.  (Tr. 22) On the
same day, he sent an email to his supervisor denying that he acted aggressively at the
meeting with the senior executive. (AX F at 4)
On  August  23,  2018,  Applicant’s  supervisor  sent  him  an  email  alleging  eight
concerns that had arisen since April 2018 and were the basis for his termination. Applicant
testified that he did not receive this email, which was sent to his father’s email address.
(GX  3  at  2;  Tr.  24)  Five  concerns  were  incorporated  into  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.e,  alleging
concerns  under  Guideline  K.  SOR  ¶  2.a  cross-alleged  the  same  five  concerns  under
Guideline M. The eight concerns in the former employer’s August 2018 email were copied
verbatim into SOR ¶ 3.a, alleging personal conduct under Guideline E.
The August 2018 email did not describe the evidence on which the eight concerns
were based. There is no evidence that the concerns were investigated before the email
was sent to Applicant. The concerns were described in general terms in the email, and
the SOR allegations incorporating them did not meet the specificity required by Directive
¶ E3.1.3 (SOR shall be a detailed and comprehensive as the national security permits).
The evidence pertaining to the allegations in the SOR is summarized below.
SOR ¶  1.a: Security  threats (attempting to  access  systems  without  clearance
(Concern  #1).  Applicant  denied  this  allegation.  The  record  contains  no  evidence  of
attempts by Applicant to access systems without a proper clearance.
SOR  ¶   1.b:   Performing  systems   scans   not   within  requested  tasks   or  job
duties  (Concern #4). Applicant denied this allegation. The record contains no evidence
of instances when Applicant performed systems scans that were not within his assigned
duties.
SOR  ¶   1.c:  Attempting  to   secure   an  administrator  account   for  network
devices  without  a  top secret clearance  (Concern #5).  Applicant testified that he had
no memory of requesting an administrator account for himself. He believed that he had
all the access he needed to perform his job. (Tr. 31) In response to DOHA interrogatories,
he stated that the only times he submitted requests for new administrative accounts was
for new administrators joining the program. These requests were part of his duties as a
senior administrator. (GX 3 at 3, 5)
SOR ¶  1.d: Bringing a  personal  CD-ROM  into the  secure  workplace  (Concern
#6). Applicant admitted this allegation. He testified that he had a personal CD-ROM in his
gym bag, and he had forgotten that it was in his gym bag when he came to work. As soon
as he discovered it, he turned it in to his supervisor, because he knew that bringing it into
the workplace was a violation of his employer’s rules. (Tr. 28-29)
SOR ¶  1.e:  Returning to  the  secure  office  environment  after hours  for a  not
verifiable   or   reasonable   purpose   (Concern  #3).   Applicant  admitted  returning  to  the
office after hours for non-work purposes. He testified that there were occasions when he
missed  his  bus  during  cold  weather,  and  he  returned  to  the  office  to  wait  for  other
transportation. There were other team members still working while he was in the secure
area. There is no evidence that he engaged in any suspicious activity while in the office.
He testified that he was never told that he was forbidden to be in the office outside of his
prescribed work hours. (Tr. 34)
SOR ¶  2.a: Cross-alleges  SOR ¶¶  1.a-1.e  under  Guideline  M. The evidence is
the same as described above for SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e.
SOR ¶  2.b: Termination from employment  due to  concerns  in SOR ¶¶  1.a-1.e.
The  evidence  establishes  that  Applicant  was  terminated  for the  reasons  set  out  in  the
SOR. However, only SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e were supported by evidence in the record.
SOR ¶  3.a: Terminated from employment  for violations  alleged  in SOR ¶¶  1.a-
1.e,  plus   Concern  #2   (Inability  to   mask   emotions  to   the   point   of   disrupting
meetings), Concern #7  (Repeated attire  and appearance  issues), and  Concern  #8
(Aggressive behavior during a customer/co-worker meeting).
The  record  contains  no  evidence  that  Applicant  disrupted  meetings.  When
Applicant was questioned by a security investigator about disruptive behavior at work, he
disclosed one occasion involving an exchange of words with a coworker about how to do
a job. He considered it to be no more than a disagreement. (GX 3 at 13) The only evidence
of  “aggressive  behavior”  was  the  accusation  of  his  supervisor  that  he  engaged  in
aggressive  behavior  by  removing  his  glasses  and  rubbing  his  head  while  a  senior
executive  was  speaking  at  a  meeting.  (Tr.  22)  There  is  no  evidence  of  the  attire  and
appearance  requirements  for  his  job  and  no  evidence  that  he  was  warned  about
inappropriate  attire.  To  the  contrary, a  co-worker submitted a  statement  that  Applicant
always wore appropriate attire and that he wore a shirt and tie every day even though
business casual was the norm. (AX A)
Two  senior  systems  engineers  employed  by  Applicant’s  former  employer
submitted statements rebutting the eight concerns about Applicant. One of them stated
that if he had any doubts about Applicant’s trustworthiness and professional behavior, he
would not have submitted his statement of support. (AX A; AX B)
Applicant testified that his overseas service with the Marine Corps was stressful.
In addition, his partner passed away in 2013. He believed that he was diagnosed  by a
psychiatrist  with  post-traumatic  stress  disorder.  He  is  currently  taking  medication  for
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and anxiety. (Tr. 35-38)
Applicant is highly regarded by his current employer. His senior program manager
and  program  director  each  submitted  letters  commenting  on  his  proficiency,  rigorous
adherence  to  information  security,  outstanding  interpersonal  skills,  and  ability  to  work
within a team. (AX C; AX D)
