Applicant  is  29  years  old.  She  is not  married  and  has  no  children.  She  has  a
Bachelor’s  degree.  She  has  no  military  service.  She  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor as a Solid State Technician and is seeking to obtain a security clearance in
connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness to  abide by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges that Applicant incurred delinquent debt owed
to  three  creditors  on  accounts  that  were  either  charged  off  or  placed  for  collection
totaling approximately $24,451.  In her answer, Applicant admits each of the debts listed
in the SOR.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated January 18, 2023; and July 25, 2023,
confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Applicant  was  employed  full  time  for  Company  A  in  March  2020,  in  addition  to
her employment with Company B.  She sustained a back injury at Company B and was
placed on a medical work hold during her recovery.  When she attempted to be cleared
to return to work, her employer would not clear her.  Her income was reduced until she
was  allowed  to  return to  work at  Company  B.  Applicant  began  working  for a  defense
contractor,  Company  C,  in  October  2022.  She  has  never  applied  for  a  security
clearance before.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
a.  A delinquent debt owed to a bank for an automobile loan was charged off in the
approximate amount of $21,529.  Applicant admits the debt.  She stated that she
co-signed on a car loan in August 2018, for her boyfriend.  She never saw the car
after co-signing, and to her knowledge, her boyfriend never made any payments
on  the  loan.  She  believes  the  car was  repossessed.  Her  last  contact  with  her
old boyfriend was in May 2019.  She stated that she is no longer with him, and
she has no access to the car, so she did not believe she was responsible for the
payment.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  She has provided no documentary evidence
to  show  that  she  has  addressed  the  debt  in  any  fashion.  The  debt  remains
owing.
b.  A delinquent debt owed to a University was placed for collection in the amount of
$2,825.  Applicant  admits  the  debt.  Applicant  stated  that  she  took  an  on-line
course  from  this  University  to  obtain  her  Master’s  degree  in  2020,  but  after
completing  the  one  class,  she  changed  her mind  and  did  not  want  to  continue.
She stated that she plans to pay off the debt this year.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
Applicant  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  she  has  addressed
the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
c.  A delinquent debt owed to a  Federal Credit Union was placed for collections in
the amount of $97.  Applicant admits the debt.  Applicant stated that she took a
loan out for $5,000  to purchase a puppy.  She stated that she  thought that she
had paid the entire loan off three or four years ago and did not know that it was
charged off.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  She provided no documentary evidence to
show that she has addressed the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
During  her  enhanced  subject  interview  dated  March  1,  2023,  Applicant  stated  that
she  does  not  have  any  debt  resolution  plan  in  effect.  She  is  currently  living  with  her
mother  to  reduce  expenses  and  intends  to  pay  off  all  of  her  debts  this  year.
(Government  Exhibit  4.)  According  to  her  personal  financial  statement,  she  has  a
monthly net remainder after expenses of $1,910.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  She failed to
respond to the FORM and provided no evidence in mitigation.
