Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  though  1.f  and  denied  the
allegations in ¶¶ 1.g through 1.j. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 61 years old. He married in 1991 and divorced in 2003. He remarried
in 2004. He has four children ranging in ages from 32 to 16. He has worked for his present
employer,  a  federal  contractor,  since  February  2022.  He  worked  for  other  federal
contractors from 2010, except for a short period of unemployment in December 2021, to
February 2022. (Item 3)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in February 2009. In May
2023,  as  part  of  government  interrogatories,  he  authenticated  the  accuracy  of  the
summary of his February 2009 interview. During his interview, he reported he had been
arrested five times for DUI in the past and that he had a drinking problem for the past 25
years. At the time, he said he was attempting to reduce his alcohol consumption, and he
had reduced it since his 2006 DUI arrest when he consumed four or five beers prior to
riding his motorcycle before he was arrested. The DUI charge was reduced to reckless
driving after he completed the terms of his sentence. (Items 4, 7, 10)
Applicant  disclosed  to  the  investigator  a  2001  DUI  arrest.  He  said  he  had
consumed alcohol to excess and was involved in an accident. He was uncertain as to
how much he had consumed, but he believed it was between six and nine beers over a
two-to-three-hour period. He told the investigator the charges were dismissed due to a
technicality. (Items 4, 10)
Applicant  discussed  with  the  investigator  a  1993  or  1994  DUI  arrest  after
consuming alcohol to excess, when he was stopped by police for speeding. He paid a
fine and performed community service. He further disclosed he was arrested for DUI in
1989 after he consumed alcohol to excess and had used marijuana. He was sentenced
to 30 days in jail. He also disclosed he was arrested for DUI in 1986 but could not recall
the details. (Item 4, Item 10 page 3)
Applicant told the investigator said he had consumed six to nine beers on average
three to four times a week prior to 2006 when he was last arrested for DUI. Since then,
he consumed two to three beers two to three times a week. He uses alcohol to relax and
enjoys drinking beer after work. He considered himself an alcoholic in the past but did not
at the time of his 2009 security interview. He said he has worked on his own to reduce
his alcohol consumption. He said because he was newly married with children he can not
be intoxicated when he cares for his children. His intention at that time was to continue to
consume alcohol socially. (Item 10 page 4)
On  August  18,  2021,  Applicant  voluntarily  sought  alcohol  treatment  and
participated in an inpatient program until September 9, 2021. A response for his medical
records is dated September 2022. The treating physician stated at the time of discharge
from treatment in September 2021, that Applicant was “in remission of his symptoms at
discharge.  Conditions of  symptoms are unknown  to  us  since  then.”  His  prognosis  was
positive.  (Item  9  page  18)  Applicant  provided  a  statement  with  his  August  2022
interrogatories. He said, “I do not drink alcohol. I got carried away with my drinking during
the COVID lock down and working from home. I have corrected that now.” The statement
is undated. (Item 9)
Applicant’s inpatient treatment records show he was diagnosed with Alcohol Use
Disorder by a qualified medical professional. He disclosed to the doctor that he was self-
referring  for  treatment  after  years  of  heavy  alcohol  consumption  and  unsuccessful
attempts to quit. He provided a history of his past alcohol abuse which began with heavy
drinking in 2012. He consumed a six-pack of beer (12 ounces) together with a half bottle
of hard liquor daily. This pattern continued for seven years uninterrupted. In 2019, he tried
to  quit  alcohol  consumption  on  and  off  unsuccessfully.  In  2020,  he  was  able  to  stop
alcohol consumption for six months. He told the doctor that he attended AA for six to eight
weeks, but he did not benefit from it. He started consuming alcohol again after six months
of sobriety. His consumption gradually and then drastically increased. Upon admission
into the treatment program, he was consuming a six-pack of beer plus a half bottle of hard
liquor each day during the weekend and a reduced amount two to three days during the
week. He reported his drinking was causing significant problems with his family and work
with  the  potential  of  separation/divorce  from  his  wife  and  unemployment.  Prior  to
admission, Applicant reported he had been drinking heavily for four days straight. (Items
9, 10)
Applicant  was  in  a  locked  unit  for assessment,  detoxification,  and monitoring  of
withdrawal  symptoms.  He  was  provided  medication  to  help  him  with  his  withdrawal
symptoms.  After  he  was  medically  stable  and  his  withdrawal  symptoms  improved,  the
medication was discontinued, and he was transferred to an open unit to “start a rigorous
substance  use  treatment.” The  report of treatment stated  that he  was integrated  into  a
multimodal  treatment  program  which  included  intensive  psychotherapy,  occupational
therapy, art therapy, and physiotherapy, as well as medical optimization, daily visits by
the  psychiatry  team,  and  a  through  medical  evaluation  to  rule  out  medical  diagnoses.
(Items 9, 10)
The  treatment report  stated  that  Applicant’s  intervention  followed  a  substance  use
specific  protocol,  which  targeted   cessation,  maintenance   of  abstinence,   and   relapse
prevent.  (emphasis added) Acamprosate  was  added  to  his medication  regime  to  aid with
reported cravings. The treatment report further stated:
Upon  discharge, [Applicant]  denies cravings and  urges  to  drink, as well as
withdrawal symptoms.  He expressed  confidence  in his ability to  maintain
abstinence  and  use  relapse  prevention  strategies.   We  recommend that
he   continue   taking  Acamprosate   to   help   with   cravings   and  use   the
skills   that  he   learned  during  admission   to   maintain  abstinence.   We
recommend  he  follows-up  with  outpatient psychotherapy as needed  and/or
at  least  once   every   three   months   to   aid   in  his   recovery.   (emphasis
added) (Item  10  page  28)
Additional  notes   from   the   treatment  report   for  Applicant’s  inpatient  treatment
stated:
We  discharged  [Applicant]  to  his home  on  02.09.2021  without any indication
of  acute   danger   to   himself  or  others  and   free   of  suicidal  tendencies.   We
recommend  the  continuation of  the  medication with  regular  checks  of
the  associated laboratory  parameters  and  the  ECG in the  context of
regular check-ups by  general practitioners  and neurologist.  (emphasis
added) (Item  10  page  30)
In August 2022, Applicant completed government interrogatories. He was asked if
he currently consumed any alcohol and he responded “no.” (Item 9 page 2) He was asked
why he stopped drinking and he stated:
I started  to  drink more often  and  a  little more than  I should  have  during  the
COVID 19  lock down.  I stopped  because  I love  my family and  wife. I decided
to  take  alcohol out of the  equation  and  stop  drinking  for a  healthier  family
lifestyle. (Item  9 page  2)
Applicant  further  disclosed  he  was  taking  medication  to  help  him  abstain  from
drinking  on  an  as  needed  basis.  When  asked  if  he  intended  to  consume  alcoholic
beverages  in  the  future,  he  responded  “no.”  He  disclosed  he  had  inpatient  alcohol
treatment from August 2021 to September 2021 and his aftercare was “as needed” and
there  was  no  follow-up  required.  He  reported  his  last  consumption  of  alcohol  was  in
November or December 2021. This consumption was after his inpatient treatment. (Item
9)
Applicant  completed  government  interrogatories  on  May  7,  2023.  In  them,
Applicant  responded  “yes”  to  the  question  that  asked  if  he  currently  consumed  any
alcoholic beverage. He disclosed he drank one to two Saturdays a month and would have
one  to  two  beers  or  wine  each  time.  He  stated  he  last  consumed  alcohol on  April  29,
2023. He was asked if he had consumed alcohol to intoxication since November 2021
and he said “no.” (Item 10 page 12)
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  in  his  SOR  answer  and  during  his
background investigation the following:
1.a: In or around January 1983, you were arrested and charged with public intoxication
after the police found alcohol in your vehicle, which you totaled after falling asleep while
driving. (Items 4, 10)
1.b:  In  about  October  1986,  you  were  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence (DUI). (Items 2, 3, 10)
1.c: In about October 1989, you were arrested and charged with (1) DUI of liquor or drugs,
and (2) controlled substance, possession prohibited. (Items 5, 9, 10)
1.d: In or about January 1993, you were arrested and charged with DUI. (Item 10)
1.e: In or around October 2001, you were arrested and charged with DUI. (Item 10)
1.f: In or around April 2006, you were arrested and charged with DUI. (Items 7, 10)
Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.g which alleged that around May 2008, he was arrested
and charged with domestic battery-violence following an altercation with his spouse. Prior
to  the  altercation,  it  is  alleged  he  consumed  approximately  four  to  five  beers  over  the
course  of  a  couple  hours.  He  explained  in  his  SOR  answer  that  the  district  attorney
declined  to  file  charges  or  to  prosecute  because  there  was  insufficient  evidence.  He
admitted he had a marital dispute and the police arrived and it was clear someone was
going to jail, which was him. The police report shows his wife called the police because
she was scared. She later refused to cooperate and testify so the case was dismissed. In
his 2009 background interview, he admitted to consuming four to five beers before the
incident. (Items 4, 10 at page 6)
Applicant denied  in his August 2023 answer to the SOR, the allegation in  ¶ 1.h
which alleged that he received inpatient treatment from about August 2021 to September
2021  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  Alcohol  Use  Disorder.  Upon  discharge  it  was
recommended that he continue to take prescribed medication to help cravings of alcohol
and  to  abstain  from  consuming  alcohol.  In  his  SOR  answer,  he  admitted  he  received
inpatient treatment in 2021. He said at discharge he was advised to take his medication
for  a  period  of  time  after  discharge,  but  not  to  take  it  indefinitely.  He  explained  the
medication prescribed, Acamprosate, is not for long term use. He was advised to take it
as needed to curb his alcohol cravings. He further stated:  “The issue was stopping the
drinking,  and  that  happened.  More  importantly,  I  have  continued  to  attend  A[lcoholics]
A[nonymous] meetings online  and  have  used  Celebrate  Recovery study aids.”  (Item 2)
The treatment report as noted above states he was to abstain from alcohol consumption
and follow-up as needed or at least every three months. (Item 2)
Applicant  denied  in  his  SOR  answer  ¶  1.i  which  alleged  in  approximately
December  2021  he  resigned  in  lieu  of  being  terminated  from  employment  after  his
supervisor  allegedly  smelled  alcohol  on  his  breath  when  he  reported  to  work.  He
explained in his SOR answer that he was forced to resign because his supervisor made
false  allegations  against  him, and  he  did not want  the allegations  to  negatively impact
him. He adamantly denied the allegation. He told his supervisor that he did not drink on
the day in question and the person he was with that day provided a statement confirming
that  while  in  his  presence,  he  did  not  observe  Applicant  consuming  alcohol.  Applicant
stated he was not afforded the opportunity to defend himself or take a blood test to prove
his innocence, which he believed would have exonerated him. He believes his supervisor
was looking for an excuse to fire him because his employer had tried to reduce his wages
when he was in a contract for a specific wage. There is insufficient evidence to conclude
that Applicant consumed alcohol that day. I find in his favor on this allegation. (Item 2)
Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.j  and  part  of  1.h  that  alleged  that  he  continues  to
consume alcohol, and that he has failed to take his prescribed medication to help alcohol
cravings and abstention in accordance with his treatment advice and recommendations.
(Item 2)
Applicant stated in his August 2023 SOR answer, “I will admit that [I] struggled in
the past and currently struggle with alcohol, I am an alcoholic and I must work every day
to keep my sobriety. I drink occasionally if we have an event to attend, I will have a beer
or glass of wine.” In addition, he stated: “I am doing what I was taught and keeping myself
sober from excessive alcohol use.” “I will admit it is a daily struggle, but it is one that I am
winning and will continue to win.” He further stated:
I attended  inpatient treatment,  I have  followed  that up  with  continued  after
care  treatment  including   AA   meetings  and   the   Celebrate   Recovery
program.  I  made   the   requisite   changes  and   have   not  had   any   other  law
enforcement  involvement.  This  is a  clear change  from  the  previous  pattern
of DUIs.  (Item  2)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  supporting  evidence  that  he  is  abstaining  from
alcohol, attends AA, or is in a recovery program. His attorney provided a brief in response
to  the FORM.  It  is dated  November 17, 2023.  Included and attached to the brief  is an
affidavit from Applicant dated November 17, 2022. I believe this is a typographical error
and the affidavit is from 2023. In the affidavit, Applicant
states the following:
I am  in compliance  with  the  treatment that has been  recommended  to  me
by medical professionals for my  previously-diagnosed  alcohol use  disorder.
I have  been  given  permission  to  drink alcohol in reasonable  amounts from
my  medical  providers,  based   on   the   success  of  my  treatment  for alcohol
use disorder.
I no longer have cravings for alcohol.
I am currently abstaining from  using alcohol, and  I am willing  to continue to
do  so  if the  Administrative Judge  believes  it is the  best  way to  minimize  any
security risks I may pose. (AE  A)
Applicant did not provide any supporting documents from a medical professional
telling  him  he  had  permission  to  drink  alcohol  in  reasonable  amounts  based  on  the
success  of  his  treatment.  He  did  not  provide  any  corroborating  evidence  that  he  is  in
compliance  with  his  treatment  plan  for  alcohol  use  disorder.  He  did  not  provide  any
corroborating documentation showing a treatment plan by a medical professional for his
previously diagnosed alcohol use disorder  and that it permits him to consume alcohol.
The only treatment plan submitted was that from his 2021 in-patient treatment.
