In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  all  SOR  allegations.  Applicant’s
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. (Item 2)
Applicant is 39 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor since
2005  and  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  is  a  high-school
graduate. He has no military service. He is single and has no children. (Item 3)
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  (THC)  with
varying frequency from January 2020 to June 2023. (SOR ¶ 1.a: Item 3 at 20; Item 4 at
3-4, 8); and that Applicant intends to use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶ 1.b: Item 4 at 7)
Applicant  listed  his  illegal  marijuana  use  on  his  July  2022  SCA  in  response  to
Section  23  - Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity.  He  estimated  he  used  marijuana
recreationally one or two times a month on the weekend. He uses it in social settings to
relax after the work week. He indicated his intent to use marijuana in the future. (Item 3
at 25)
In response to DOHA Interrogatories, dated June 14, 2023, Applicant listed that
he used THC edibles on a weekly basis. The amount of THC in the edibles was 5 mg. He
intends  to  continue  to  use  THC  edibles  in  the  future.  He  indicated  his  state  legalized
edibles with 5 mg THC. He uses it to relax at night and to help him sleep. He has taken
THC edibles for over a year. He buys the edibles at stores in the area. They improve his
mood, help with body pain, improve his sleep, and reduce his anxiety. (Item 4 at 3-4) He
intends to continue his weekly use of THC edibles. (Item 4 at 7)
Applicant does not use drugs at work. His use of edibles on the weekend has not
affected  his  ability  to  do  his  job.  He  has  never  been  in  trouble  with  the  law  or  had
disciplinary issues. He claims low-dose THC has far more benefits than alcohol without
the hangovers. It does not affect his ability to keep national security a top priority. (Item 4
at 8)
Applicant’s company has a Drug-Free Workplace Policy. The policy mentions that
all federal state and local laws must be followed. Even if Applicant’s state has legalized
the use of marijuana/THC, it remains illegal under federal law. (Item 4 at 9-14)
