In  Applicant’s Answer to  the  SOR, he  admitted  the  three  allegations:  SOR ¶  1.a,
that he  used marijuana or other THC  products with varying  frequency from  about 2012
to  at least February 2023;  SOR ¶  1.b,  that  he purchased  marijuana  or other THC products
with  varying  frequency  from  about  2012  to  at  least February 2023;  and  SOR ¶  1.c,  that
he intended  to  continue  using  marijuana  or other THC products in the  future. In  his Answer
to  SOR ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  he  wrote,  “I admit to  this for medical purposes” and  after SOR ¶
1.c   he   added,   “I   admit  to   this  for  medical  purposes  however  can   discontinue   use   if
necessary to retain security clearance.” (Item 2.)
Applicant is a 38-year-old self-employed cybersecurity services provider. He has
been married since 2012 and has no children. He became a naturalized citizen in August
2015. (Item 3.)
Applicant  disclosed  in  his  August  2022  security  clearance  interview  that  he  had  been
using marijuana since 2013. He  resides  in a state  where marijuana  use  is legal  under
state law. He had a prescription and license for its use because of a variety of medical
conditions.  He renews his marijuana license annually. (Item 5 at 3.) He states his usage
depends on pain triggers, which occurred a few times a month. His use takes place at
home,  and  he  used  a  variety  of  forms  of  marijuana.  He  states  the  reason  he  did  not
disclose on his SCA that he had bought illegal drugs was because he misunderstood the
question and thought since he was buying it in a state where it was legal and that he had
a license and prescription he did not have to report it. (Item 5 at 4.)
In  his  response  to  Government  interrogatories,  Applicant  said  his  prescription
began in 2012 and his last use was in February 2023. (Item 4 at 4.) He added that he did
not use marijuana unless he was in pain. (Item 4 at 4.) He said that he planned to continue
to use marijuana to mitigate his pain, but he added his use could be stopped if it hindered
his security clearance and he cited other medication he would use. (Item 4 at 4, 10.)
In his Response to the FORM he stated:
I am  more than  willing  to  stop  consumption. Within the  section  of mitigating
conditions, it is  stated  that I have  not acknowledged  the  drug  involvement
or  provided   evidence   of  actions  taken   to   overcome  problematic  usage.
There is no  reason  to  take  any actions as I am  not addicted  and  there is no
need for a drug treatment program.
Applicant reaffirmed in his Response that he would continue consuming marijuana
for pain, however, he said that there have been multiple occasions of abstinence since
2012  where  he  did  not  need  to  consume  marijuana.  He  stated  he  was  able  to  use
alternative forms of medication if needed. (Response.)
