In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  all  SOR  allegations.  Applicant’s
admissions are accepted as findings of fact. (Item 3)
Applicant is 29 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor since
2017 and is applying for a security clearance. It is unclear whether he previously held a
security  clearance.  During  his  employment  with  the  defense  contractor,  he  has  been
promoted  to  positions  of  greater  responsibility.  His  highest  level  of  education  is  a
bachelor’s degree. He is single and has no children. (Item 3)
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used and purchased marijuana
(THC) with varying frequency from approximately March 2014 to present.(SOR ¶ 1.a: Item
4 at 30-31); and that Applicant intends to use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶ 1.b: Item 4
at 31)
Applicant  listed  his  illegal  marijuana  use  on  his  July  2022  SCA  in  response  to
Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity. He indicated he is prescribed medical
cannabis as sanctioned under state law.  He was diagnosed with several chronic medical
issues. His physician recommended that he obtain a medical marijuana card in order to
help  with  his  medical  conditions.  He  began  using  marijuana  in  March  2014.  He  uses
marijuana every other night before bed. (Item 4 at 30-31)
On his July 2022 SCA, he states he intends to use marijuana in the future:
I  have   the   right   to   use   my   prescription   under  the   [state   statute].  I   do   not
intend   to   stop   my  usage.   It   is  the   only  medication   that   helps  with   my
ailments,   without  all   the   adverse  side   effects  other  prescriptions  have
caused. My  usage  has  never and  will  never infringe  upon  my work,  ethics,
and/or responsibilities. It is solely for medical relief.   (Item 4  at 31)
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  indicates  his  primary  care  doctor  and
cardiologists  recommended  he  use  marijuana.  He  did  not  provide  medical  records  or
letters from his medical doctors describing his need for marijuana as a treatment for his
health issues. He has held a state medical marijuana card since 2014. He states his use
of marijuana has been a major factor in the improvement of his health. (Item 3)
