Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact: Applicant is 24 years old. Before their college graduation  in the Spring
of  2021,  they  started  an  internship  in  November  2019  with  a  government  contractor.
They were required to apply for a DOD security clearance. After they graduated with a
bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science,  the  government  contractor  offered  them  full-
time employment as a software engineer. Applicant identified as a trans man from their
sophomore  year  in  high  school and  during  their  first  two  years  into  college.  They  now
consider  themselves  demisexual.  Demisexuality  is  a  sexual  orientation  in  which  a
person  feels  sexually  attracted  to  someone  only  after  they  have  developed  a  close
emotional  bond  with
(https://my.clevelandclinic.org/health/articles/22678-
demisexuality)  They currently  cohabitate  with  their  partner,  and  they  do  not  have  any
children. (Tr. 22-25, 30, 35, 38-39; GE 1)
them.
Applicant described their childhood as “rough.” Their parents divorced when they
were 11 years old. Their mother had a mental health condition, was a harsh critic, and
was  excessively  fixated  on  her  children’s  academics.  Applicant  was  verbally  and
emotionally  abused by  their mother,  and they  were  also neglected.  Their  mother used
alcohol  to   excess,   and   she   was  hospitalized   on   more  than   one   occasion   due   to   this
problem. Applicant did  not  feel safe  living  with  their  mother,  and  they had  to  watch  over
their  two  younger siblings  because  they were  neglected  by their  mother as well. (Tr. 26-
29)
When Applicant was 12 years old, they suffered from a depressive episode which
required inpatient treatment. When asked how this situation developed, Applicant stated
that  another  student  had  looked  at  their  artwork  without  permission,  and  due  to  the
graphic  nature  of  Applicant’s  artwork,  the  student  reported  it  to  school  officials.
Applicant  testified,  “I  had  some  art  of  my  ghost  getting  back  at  my  bullies,  and  while,
yes, the art was violent, no one was really listening or understanding that I was having
issues at school. And I had no intentions of ever harming someone; it was just the only
way for me to get my frustrations out.” They had to meet with a social worker, who then
told  Applicant’s  father  they  needed  to  have  a  mental  health  evaluation.  They  were
referred for inpatient treatment from approximately February 2012 through March 2012
for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  depressive  disorder  with  suicidal  ideation.  They  were
prescribed medication. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b) (GE 1; Tr. 30-34)
Applicant  continued  to  receive  mental  health  counseling  and  medication
throughout their high school years, but it was not consistent. When they were the age of
14, they half-heartedly attempted to hang  themselves with the belt from their bathrobe
after performing poorly on a test, and on another occasion, they put a plastic bag over
their  head  but  did  not  tie  it  closed.  On  both  occasions,  they  stopped  their  actions
because  they  did  not  like  the  way  it  made  them  feel.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d)  At  some
point  during  this  time  they  were  diagnosed  with  bipolar  disorder,  anxiety,  and
depression. In 2016, their mother died from complications related to  excessive alcohol
use when they were 16 years old. (GE 1; Tr. 30-35; GE 3)
From  approximately  November  2019  to  December  2019,  Applicant  received
partial  outpatient  treatment  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  major  depressive  disorder  –
severe.  (SOR  ¶  1.e)  They  were  enrolled  in  college  at  the  time  and  feeling  extreme
pressure  from  the  college  assignments  and  the  notion  that  they  had  to  excel  in
academics  that  was  impressed  upon  them  since  childhood.  They  voluntarily  referred
themselves for treatment. After the partial outpatient treatment program was completed,
they  continued  to  see  a  therapist,  a  new  psychiatrist,  and  they  continued  taking
medication.  The  treatment  records  reflect  there  were  times  they  did  not  take  the
medication as prescribed. (Tr. 35-38; GE 2; GE 3)
During the course of Applicant’s security clearance investigation, the DCSA CAS
requested Applicant to voluntarily undergo a psychological evaluation. They consented
to  the  evaluation,  and  in  September  2022  they  met  with  the  licensed  clinical
psychologist. The evaluation took three hours out of the four hours allotted. During the
evaluation Applicant felt  like  the questions were  based on preconceived notions  about
them,  and  the  mental  health  professional  seemed  more  concerned  about  their  history
rather than their current treatment and  progress. After the evaluation, the psychologist
found  that  Applicant  met  the  criteria  for  bipolar  II  disorder,  most  recent  episode
depressed  (severe),  other  specified  trauma  and  stressor  related  disorder,  and  autism
spectrum  disorder.  The  mental  health  professional  noted  there  was  a  reasonable
concern  that  Applicant’s  psychological  conditions  impaired  their  judgment,  reliability,
and trustworthiness. (SOR ¶ 1.f) (Tr. 38-41; GE 4)
Applicant  disagreed  with  the  psychologist’s  findings  from  the  September  2022
evaluation. They have been feeling remarkably better since November 2022 when they
started  seeing  a  new  therapist  and  after  going  through  a  complete  “med  wash”  under
the supervision of their psychiatrist. The medications they had been taking made them
violently  ill  and  also  kept  them  in  a  state  of  mental  fog.  The  new  therapist  has  been
more challenging by setting specific goals and has been more involved in helping them
improve,  rather  than  just  listening  to  their  thoughts  and  concerns  like  their  former
therapist. (Tr. 41-45)
Applicant and their psychiatrist worked together during their med wash, and the
plan  was  to  eliminate  all  medications,  and  then  slowly  add  medications  when
necessary.  No  new  medications  have  ever  been  added.  They  have  been  completely
free from medications for over a year now. Applicant stated:
I believe  that not having  the  medications has allowed  me  more opportunity
to  help my  mental health  conditions  and  confront the  feelings  that  I  feel in
therapy  a  lot  better,  as some  of  the  medications were  merely helping  me
get  by   and   masking   the   symptoms  instead   of  allowing   me   to   confront
them. Now  that I'm not  taking medications, I'm  more in tune  with  how I feel
and  how I can better cope  with those in  therapy.  (Tr. 45-46)
Applicant provided a medical study showing that antidepressants are a potential
cause  of  suicidal  ideations  or  behavior.  (AE  A)  They  also  submitted  their  current
treatment  records.  In  May  2021  neuropsychiatric  testing  results  showed  Applicant’s
diagnosis of autism spectrum disorder, without intellectual or language impairment, and
major  depressive  disorder.  The  test  results  did  not  conclude  a  diagnosis  of  bipolar
disorder. The psychiatrist, therapist, and the certified physician assistant have updated
Applicant’s diagnosis to major depressive disorder, in full remission. Applicant has been
seeing their therapist on a  weekly basis since  November  2022. The therapist reported
that  since  medications  were  discontinued  in  January  2023,  there  have  not  been  any
major depressive-type systems, and the patient appeared to be doing better than when
they were treated with medications. The patient reported their mental health symptoms
have not impaired their daily functioning, and they have built sufficient coping strategies
to  maintain  stability.  Based  on  patient  reports  and  clinical  observation,  Applicant  has
demonstrated  improvements  in  their  overall  insight  and  judgment/impulse  control.
Applicant continues to participate in weekly therapy sessions to the current time and is
fully compliant with their treatment plan. (AE C)
