Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant has never entered into a civil marriage or legally recognized civil union,
and he has no children. (GE 1; Tr. 66) He earned a high school diploma in May 2011
and  completed  aircraft  leadership  school  classes.  (GE  1  and  AE  G;  Tr.  64)  Applicant
enlisted in the Air Force (AF) in October 2011 and served 10 years of active duty. (GE
1;  Tr.  66-67)  During  his  AF  career,  Applicant  excelled  in  his  aircraft  maintenance
specialty  and  earned  numerous  promotions.  (AEs  J-K)  As  a  certified  and  experienced
aircraft  crew  chief  and  non-commissioned  officer  (NCO),  he  was  recognized  with
numerous designations and awards. (AEs E-F and J-K)
In June 2021, Applicant received a discharge from the Air Force under other than
honorable  conditions, attributable  to  his  testing  positive  for cocaine  in  two  randomized
drug tests: one in December 2020 and the other in January 2021. (GEs 1-6; Tr. 66) In
his first administered randomized drug test in December 2020, he produced a confirmed
cocaine level in his system of 772 ng/ml, well above the cutoff level of 100 ng/mL (GE 3)
Applicant  held  a  security  clearance  between  June  2011  and  March  2021.  (GEs  1  and
7).
After testing positive for the second time in January 2021, Applicant was afforded
an  opportunity  to  provide  a  written  reply  to  his  AF  commander’s  notification  of  his
intended suspension of his security  clearance. (GE 7) Without a written response from
Applicant  within  the  time  permitted,  Applicant’s  AF  commander  suspended  Applicant’s
access  to  classified  information  in  March  2021.  See  GE  7  and  Applicant’s  contrasting
hearing statements. (Tr. 67, 112-113)
Prior to testing positive  for cocaine  on December 4, 2020,  Applicant and an  AF
coworker friend repaired to a local `bar in England. (GE 2 and AE L; Tr. 71-72) Once in
the bar, Applicant consumed four to five beers and two to three shots within a two-hour
time span and became intoxicated (by both his own and friend’s accounts). (GE 2 and
AE L; Tr. 72) Seated at a nearby table was a group of local patrons who were watching
a soccer game and in a festive mood. (Tr. 72) Feeling tipsy himself from heavy drinking
and smoking, he “purchased some shots for some of the patrons there.” (Tr. 72)
Inebriated  and  in  need  of  a  cigarette,  Applicant  asked  one  of  the  local  bar
patrons  for  a  cigarette.  (GE  2  and  AE  L;  Tr.  73-74)  After  asking  the  bar  patron  for  a
cigarette,  one  of  the  recipients  of  the  shots  he  provided  gave  him  three  pre-rolled
cigarettes  that  impressed  Applicant  at  the  time  with  being  normal  tobacco-laden
cigarettes. (Tr. 73, 113-114) Although, from his AF friend’s vantage, the three dispensed
cigarettes he could see  were “all white-looking  joints/cigarettes”  on  the table  “with one
being  noticeably  burnt  at  the  end.”  (AE  L)  When  his  AF  friend  pointed  out  the  burnt
cigarette  to  him,  he  laughed  off  the  comment  with  the  remark  that  in  England,  Brits
typically roll their cigarettes. (AE L)
After  finishing  the  first  cigarette  he  received  from  a  member  of  the  local  bar
patron group, Applicant returned to the bar (according to his friend’s account) and asked
the group for another cigarette. (AE L) At this time, one of the local patrons of the group
gave Applicant two additional pre-rolled cigarettes, one of which he smoked outside the
bar, and the other of which he retained for future use. (AE L)
What  impressed  the  friend  at  this  inflection  moment  was  how  sick  Applicant
looked receiving the second cigarette and how the locals were laughing at Applicant as
he  shuffled  out  of  the  bar.  (AE  L)  Asked  about  the  cigarette  exchange  at  hearing,
Applicant  confirmed  only  that  he  was  given  three  pre-rolled  cigarettes  without
elaborating on the sequence of the cigarettes he received. (AE L; Tr. 73) Inebriation and
memory loss provide the best explanations for their slightly different sequential accounts
of  how  and  when  the  three  pre-rolled  cigarettes  were  furnished  to  Applicant.  Overall,
though,  the  friend’s  account  of  events  that  transpired  in  the  evening  of  December  2,
2020 essentially corroborates Applicant’s version furnished the OPM investigator in his
August 2021 PSI.
From  the  laughter  emanating  from  the  bar  patrons  that  Applicant’s  friend
witnessed  as  Applicant  exited  the  bar  with  a  second  self-rolled  cigarette,  they  were
certain  he  was  oblivious  as  to  what  he  was  about  to  smoke.  And,  while  none  of  the
furnished  cocaine-laced  cigarettes  alone  could  realistically  be  expected  to  produce  a
772-ng/mL  confirmed  reading  in  a  positive  drug  test  two  days  later  (i.e.,  December  4,
2020), two such cigarettes smoked sequentially within a short period of time could quite
possibly produce such an outsized number when aggregated.
Applicant’s  version  of  the  events  that  transpired  in  the  English  bar  essentially
covered  the  same  sequence  of  events  that  his  friend  reported  in  his  statement  of
account. In Applicant’s PSI, he told the OPM investigator that in early December 2020,
while  drinking  with  a  co-worker  in  an  English  bar,  he  unknowingly  smoked  a  single
cocaine-laced  cigarette  from  among  the  three  cigarettes  given  to  him  by  an  unknown
patron of the bar. (GE 2) According to Applicant’s account, he smoked a single cigarette
outside of the bar (implicitly leaving him with two other cigarettes) that did not make him
feel the effects of cocaine, possibly due to his heavy drinking at the time. (GE 2)
Pressed  for  more  details  by  the  interviewing  OPM  investigator,  Applicant
elaborated on his account and told the investigator about what his friend told him (i.e.,
that he “looked white and sic.”). (GE 2) Applicant could not recall if he smoked another
cigarette  before  leaving  the  bar.  (GE  2)  Several  weeks  later,  according  to  Applicant’s
account, he was snacking at home with another coworker and intoxicated from drinking
when he realized he still had a cigarette left from the batch of three cigarettes given to
him earlier by the English bar patron. (GE 2) With this third cigarette, he went outside to
smoke it.
Considered  together,  the  respective  accounts  of  Applicant  in  his  August  2021
PSI  and  his  AF  friend’s  account  are  reconcilable  in  most  material  respects.  If  left
standing alone unaffected by Applicant’s contrasting and conflicting statement covering
the  same  December  2,  2020  bar  events  that  he  furnished  earlier  to  his  commanding
officer,  his  PSI  account  of  the  bar  events  quite  possibly  could  have  supported  a
favorable credibility assessment of his claims of unknowing cocaine ingestion.
Several  weeks  after  testing  positive  for  cocaine  in  his  first  test  (and  before  he
learned of the results of his first positive drug test), Applicant tested positive once again
for cocaine  ingestion. (GEs  4 and  11) Summarized results of the Navy’s  lab testing  of
Applicant’s  furnished  urine  specimen  following  his  second  positive  drug  test  produced
an initial screening reading of 150 ng/mL and a confirming reading of 354 ng/mL (GEs 4
and 11) For reasons not fully explained by Applicant, he did not report the bar incident
to  AF  investigators,  who  would  have  likely  been  positioned  to  investigate  his  bar
encounter and hopefully verify his account. (Tr.101)
As  the  result  of  his  first  failed  drug  test,  Applicant  received  non-judicial
punishment  (NJP)  under  Article  15  of  the  UCMJ  for  wrongful  use  of  a  Schedule  II
controlled substance. (GEs 5-6) In hopes of receiving a lighter punishment from his AF
commanding  officer,  Applicant  penned  a  more  appealing  account  of  the  incident  that
trimmed the kind and number of cigarettes he received from the local bar patrons in the
evening  of  December  2,  2020.  (AE  L)  In  his  earlier  January  14,  2021  memorandum
covering his account of the December 2, 2020 bar events (attached to his NJP record),
he assured his AF commander that while “already buzzed from heavy drinking at home”
and  from  the  five or six  beers he  consumed at  the bar,  he  was  inebriated  and  bought
the whole bar some 15 to 17 shots. (GE 7)
Elaborating further on his experiences in the English bar in his January 14, 2021
memorandum to his commander, Applicant cited his feelings of wanting to smoke after
so  much  drinking.  Looking  for  someone  in  the  bar  with  a  cigarette  to  give,  he
approached  a  local  bar  group  seated  outside  of  the  bar  with  a  request  “to  bum  a
cigarette.” (GE 7) At this point (according to Applicant’s earlier January 14 account), one
of  the  bar  patrons  gave  him  a  couple  of  normal  cigarettes  from  a  pack  typically
purchased in a store “and a self-rolled cigarette” to thank him “for the shot.” (GE 7)
After  smoking   the   one   self-rolled   cigarette   that   did  not  smell   like   marijuana   or
anything   illegal  (according   to   Applicant   in  his  memorandum),  Applicant  went  back  into
the   bar,   tipped   the   waitress,  and   left   the   bar   with   his  friend.  (GE   7)  At  no   point  in   this
earlier account did he  acknowledge  smoking  a  second  or third  self-rolled  cigarette.  (GE
7) Aside  from  describing  his bar experience,  he  stressed  his  NCO  deployment  awards
and  achievements  and   acknowledged   responsibility  for  his  poor  decision-making.  (GE
7)
With  his  acceptance  of  non-judicial  punishment  from  his  AF  commander
(augmented  by  a  contrasting  and  conflicting  version  of  the  events  of  December  2,
2020),  Applicant  avoided  potentially  more  serious  charges.  (GE  7) Asked  why  he  was
not  more  forthcoming  about  the  events  of  December  2,  2020  in  his  January  14
memorandum  to  his  commanding  officer,  Applicant  responded  that  he  was  trying  to
impress his commanding officer with his sincerity and honesty (after pleading not guilty)
and was less concerned about trying to remember the truthful details of the December 2
events. (Tr. 107) Pressed further at hearing, Applicant placed his drunken status in the
bar  as  his  justification  for  not  being  more  truthful  about  the  events.  (Tr.  107-108)  For
clarity purposes, he acknowledged that his January 14, 2021 account “sounded better,’
and he was “just trying to save my career.” (Tr. 114)
Following  confirmation  of  his  second  failed  urinalysis  on  January  20,  2021,
Applicant  was  charged  with  violating  Article  112a  of  the  UCMJ  (wrongful  use  of
cocaine). (GE 6) In lieu of trial by U.S. court martial, Applicant requested and accepted
a  discharge  under  other  than  honorable  conditions.  (GEs  8-9)  Both  of  Applicant’s
positive drug tests occurred while he was granted access to classified information. (GEs
1-5)  And,  in  March  2021,  Applicant’s  access  to  classified  information  was  suspended.
(GE 7)
While  Applicant  never  challenged  his  positive  drug  tests  in  a  convened  court
martial, or otherwise appealed the results of his drug tests, he has continued to deny his
intentional ingestion of cocaine preceding his positive drug tests. (GE 2) Never feeling
any  adverse  effects  of  cocaine  ingestion,  he  has  consistently  claimed  that  he
unknowingly accepted three cigarettes laced with cocaine from unknown sources in an
English bar. (GEs 2 and AE L)
For  some  historical  background  on  cocaine  use,  urine  testing  is  common  for
monitoring  cocaine  users
treatment  and  parole  programs.  (GE  13)
Understanding  cocaine  metabolism  and  excretion  is  essential  for  the  interpretation  of
cocaine  urine  test  results.  Scholarly  studies  confirm  that  cocaine  dissipates  rather
quickly  and  typically  for  smoked  doses  in  the  20  to  40mg  range  and  is  detectable  in
drug testing up to 80 hours after ingestion.  (GE 13, at 7)
in  drug
For  smoked  doses  of  cocaine  in  the  10  to  20ng.mL  range,  detection  times
typically do not run past a day. (id.) Published detection windows for cocaine ingestion
at  or  below  DoD  screening  and  confirming  targets  typically  run  no  longer  than  three
days.  (GE  11)  Tested  subjects  ingested  with  cocaine  in  the  200  ng/mL  range  show
traces of cocaine in their system for up to 480 minutes (or 80 hours). (GE 12, at 35)
After the test results were returned days later with a positive reading for cocaine,
Applicant  was  referred  to  his  unit’s  office  of  special  investigations  for  another
randomized  drug  test.  (GE  2)  Like  his  first  test,  this  follow-up  randomized  drug  test
returned positive test results as well for cocaine.
Under questioning at hearing, Applicant acknowledged that he likely smoked two
cocaine-laced cigarettes of the three given to him by the patrons of the English bar he
and  his  friend  visited  in  December  2020.  (Tr.  105,  113)  His  revised  PSI  and  hearing
accounts both reconcile with his AF friend’s version of the events that transpired at the
English  bar.  Both  accounts  contrast  and  conflict  with  Applicant’s  January  14,  2021
memorandum version of events.
Weighing  the  respective  accounts  of  Applicant  that  he  disclosed  to  the  OPM
agent who interviewed him in August 2021 and his friend’s account of the events in the
English  bar  in  the  evening  of  December  2,  2020,  Applicant’s  claims  of  receiving  three
cocaine-free  cigarettes  sequentially  from  a  local  patron  of  the  bar  they  visited  are
reconcilable  and,  unless  otherwise  challenged,  are  worthy  of  a  favorable  credibility
assessment.  What  prevents  these  corroborating  accounts  from  achieving  overall
credibility  assessments  is  Applicant’s  earlier  contrasting  and  conflicting  January  14,
2021  version  he  provided  his  AF  commander  in  hopes  of  enlisting  lighter  punishment
from his commander.
As  with  administered  oaths  in  federal  and  state  trial  proceedings,  witnesses  in
DOHA  administrative  proceedings  to  covered  material  events  and  incidents  are
expected  to  fully  disclose  the  truth,  the  whole  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth,  as  best
they  can  with  the  information  available  to  them. Accounts of material events  (as here)
cannot be parsed, piecemealed, or cherry-picked to appeal to individual fact finders and
decision makers in disparate circumstances without violating their witness oaths.
Using an accepted DOHA blend of personal subjective knowledge and manifest
intention  accounts  of  the  applicant  assessed  along  with  all  of  the  surrounding
circumstances,  Applicant’s  overall  credibility  cannot  be  reconciled  with  his  competing
accounts of the events of December 2, 2020. Applicant’s offered proofs of innocence of
any knowing use of cocaine in 2020 and 2021, respectively, are insufficient based on a
careful reading of all of the evidence produced in the record to clear him of any imputed
knowledge  of  his  pre-testing  use  of  cocaine-laced  cigarettes  on  not  just  one,  but  two
separate occasions.
Looking  forward  to  a  drug-free  future,  Applicant  has  abstained  from  any  use  or
involvement  with  illegal  drugs  since  his  second  positive  drug  test  in  January  2021.  To
reinforce his commitment to future avoidance of illegal drugs, he has taken several on-
line courses, inclusive of behavior and drug and alcohol awareness classes, to bolster
his  knowledge  about  the  negative  impacts  that  drugs  can  have  and  the  importance  of
avoiding recurrences.  (AEs O-P) Additionally, he completed two favorable randomized
negative  drug  tests  in  2021  and  2022,  respectively,  through  his  current  employer,
received  a  positive  substance  abuse  diagnosis  for  alcohol  and  drug  use  (citing  only  a
mild  alcohol  use  disorder)  and  favorable  prognosis,  and  documented  his  personal
pledge to abstain from use of illegal drugs in the future. (AEs M, N, and Q)
Endorsements
Applicant’s  AF  chain  of  command  and  current  supervisors  and  coworkers  hold
Applicant  in  high  esteem  and  confidence.  (AEs  C-D)  AF  members  who  served  with
Applicant  in  deployments  credit  him  with  strong  character  and  work  ethic  beyond
reproach. (AE C; Tr. 33-53) His current supervisor and staff co-workers credit Applicant
with a strong work ethic, honesty, and trustworthiness in his work as an aircraft training
mentor. (AE D; Tr. 51-56) His supervisor expressed knowledge of his positive drug tests
and the circumstances surrounding the tests. (Tr. 57-58)
Applicant  earned  excellent  performance  evaluations  during  his  military  and
civilian  careers  and  received  numerous  certificates,  decorations,  and  awards
recognizing his AF and civilian achievements and contributions. (AEs  F and H-K)
