Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  clarifications.  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 44 years old. He married in 2000 and divorced in 2005. He has two
children  from  the  marriage,  ages  15  and  24,  and  a  26-year-old  child  from  a  previous
relationship. He earned an associate’s degree in 2016 and a bachelor’s degree in 2018.
He has been employed by a federal contractor since June 2021. (Tr. 15, 21GE 1)
Applicant  served   in   the   military  from   1999   to   2020   and   retired   honorably   in  the
paygrade  E-7. His career was in the  financial field,  with  responsibilities over the  years as
a  financial analysist,  budget manager and  budget officer. He testified  he  was responsible
for operating  budgets in  the  amount of $315  million. He received  numerous awards and
certificates during  his military service, including  a  Bronze  Star in support of the  mission  in
the  Middle East.  He received  disciplinary action  under the  Uniform  Code  of Military Justice
Article 15  twice  early in his  military  career.  The first Article  15  related to  illegal marijuana
use.  He admitted  he  was aware  that using  marijuana  was against  the  law.  He  said  he
used  it  “probably once  or twice”  before he  received  his Article 15. His second  Article 15
was for  illegally  viewing  pornography  on  a  government  computer.  (Tr. 17-20,  37-39,  48-
49; GE 10; AE D)
In  June  2013,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  assault  causing  bodily
injury/family member, criminal mischief between $50 and $500, and interfering with an
emergency  call.  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  was  in  an
argument with his girlfriend at the time, and she attempted to call the police. He stated,
“at no time did I interfere with her making that phone call.” (SOR answer) He further stated
in his answer that during the argument, she threw a lamp at him that was still plugged into
the wall, and it traveled backwards and caused property damage and minor injuries to
her. He further stated:
After this event,  I was not questioned  by  the  police, Instead, they  arrested
me  and  charged  me  with  Assault,  Criminal Mischief, and  Interfering  with  an
Emergency Call. The  charges against me  were dismissed  and  I agreed  to
perform   100   hours  of  community  service,  which  I   completed.  (Answer  to
SOR)
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  and  his  girlfriend  got  into  a  heated
argument, and he attempted to leave. He admitted he slapped her phone out of her hand
while she was attempting to call the police. He testified he did not perceive this as a violent
act. He said she threw a lamp at him that was still plugged into the wall, and she then
pushed him  as he was walking down the stairs. He testified that  he went to the police
station  to  press  charges  against  her,  and  he  was  arrested.  He  said  she  had  already
contacted the police about pressing charges, so he was arrested. He was asked what
happened to the charges. He testified that “The charges were dismissed after a domestic
violence class and then paid a fine and 100 community service hours.” He further testified
he is no longer involved with this woman and has had no subsequent domestic violence
issues. (Tr. Tr. 26-29)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in  January 2022 and in
his  September  2022  interrogatories,  he  adopted  the  summary  of  his  interview.  When
questioned by the investigator about the domestic violence events from June 2013, he
did not tell the investigator or add to his interrogatory statement that he had slapped the
phone out of his girlfriend’s hand to prevent her from calling the police. He also said he
immediately left the residence and walked two blocks to his home.  He said he went to
bed and the next morning he went to the police department to file a complaint against his
girlfriend. When he arrived, he said he was told there was a warrant for his arrest. He was
advised the police attempted to contact him at his residence the night before, but he failed
to answer the door. He said he was asleep. He told the investigator that he went to the
county court the same month that the offenses occurred, and the charges against him
were dropped.1 (GE 3, 7; Answer to the SOR)
When Appellant was cross-examined at his hearing about what happened to the
charges  from  the  June  2013  incident,  he  admitted  his  January  2022  statement  to  the
government  investigator  did  not  include  that  he  had  slapped  the  phone  out  of  his
girlfriend’s hand when she was attempting to call the police. When he was further asked
about what happened in court he testified “the case was dismissed after completion of a
class and 100 hours of community service.” (Tr. 84-85) He was then asked “Did you ever
plead guilty to any of the three charges?” He responded, “I don’t remember.” He explained
he could not remember because it was ten years ago and could not recall what his pleas
were but did recall the outcome of the case. (Tr. 84-85)
The court documents reflect that in January 2014  Applicant was represented by
an  attorney,  and  he  entered  pleas  of  guilty  to  assault  on  a  family  member,  criminal
mischief, and interfering with an emergency call. He received a deferred disposition for
18  months,  which  required  that  he  complete  120  hours  of  community  service  and
probation for 18 months, which required he report monthly and be tested for drugs and
alcohol. After he completed the terms of his sentence and probation, in accordance with
the deferred disposition agreement, his pleas of guilty were amended to not guilty and the
charges were dismissed. (Tr. 85-90; GE 4, 7, 8)
1  In Applicant’s  statement to the   government investigator, he   listed   the offenses  as  occurring   in October
2012  and he  went to the  county  courthouse also in October 2012  and  the  charges  were dropped. He was
obviously mistaken  as to the actual date  of the offenses.
In September 2021, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA).
Section 22: Police Record inquired if he had ever been convicted of an offense involving
domestic  violence.  Applicant  responded  “yes.”  He  disclosed:  “I  was  charged  with
[d]omestic violence to ex-girlfriend to whom we did not live together nor share children.
The charges were later dismissed.” (GE 1) The SCA further inquired:
Please   provide   all   charges  brought  against   you   for  this  offense,  and   the
outcome  of  each  charged  offense  (such  as found  guilty,  found  not-guilty,  or
charges dropped  or “nolle  pros,” etc.) If  you  were  found  guilty of or pleaded
guilty  to   a   lesser  offense,  list  both   the   original  and   the   lesser  offense
separately.  (GE 1)
Applicant disclosed the offense was a misdemeanor and the charge was domestic
violence. He then stated, “Outcome: charges dropped.” He further disclosed on the SCA
“Case  went  before  judge  and  charges  were  dropped.”  He  did  not  disclose  all  the
information about his guilty pleas, deferred disposition, and probation for 18 months. (GE
1)
In  April  2020,  while  on  terminal  leave  from  the  military  and  awaiting  his  final
discharge  on  April  30,  2020,  Applicant  was  traveling  outside  of  his  home  state.  He
attempted to put an address into his global positioning system (GPS) while he was driving
in a high-traffic area, and he hit an 18-wheel tractor-trailer truck from behind. Applicant’s
vehicle left the road. The semi-tractor-trailer truck stopped. Applicant testified that when
he came to his senses, he began walking along the roadway and railroad tracks to his
friend’s  house.  He  did  not  remain  at  the  scene  of  the  accident.  He  was  experiencing
concussion symptoms. He did not have his cell phone with him or any identification. He
said he walked between an hour or an hour and a half and arrived at his friend’s house.
He used her telephone to contact another friend whose house he had been at before the
accident. He asked his friend to pick him up and take him to the hospital where he was
diagnosed with a concussion. Applicant testified that he has had concussions in the past
and has post-concussion syndrome and is more susceptible to them. (Tr. 29-34, 39-41;
GE 4, 5, 6; AE G)
Applicant testified that later while at the hospital, he contacted the police advising
them he had been involved in a vehicle accident. He provided the police his address and
they spoke with him later. He testified that he was told he would be charged with hit and
run, failure to stop, and possession of marijuana. He testified that the police told him that
several items had been found outside of his vehicle and that marijuana was found around
the area as well. He denied to the police that the marijuana belonged to him. During his
January 2022 background interview, he told the investigator that he was told by the police
that the marijuana was found either in or around the backpack. The police report stated
that,  a  pistol  magazine  with  9  mm  bullets  loaded  into  it  was  found  in  the  glove
compartment. The report also stated that about 30 feet away from the car in the woods,
the  police  officer  found  a  backpack  that  contained  a  loaded  Ruger  P95  pistol  with  a
matching magazine and an orange vial with a green, plant-like material inside. It was field
tested and found to be marijuana. (Tr 34-37, 54-58; GE 3, 6)
The handgun found  in Applicant’s backpack was legally licensed. In the trunk of
his vehicle, he had an AR-556 assault rifle, which was also legally licensed. He admitted
the backpack and the weapons belonged to him, but not the marijuana. Applicant testified
that, “I am not even saying that the marijuana was in my backpack.” He did not know if
the police planted the marijuana in his backpack or who it belonged to. (Tr 34-37, 54-59,
71; GE 3, 6)
Applicant was charged with  felony failure to stop/accident, following too closely,
and possession of marijuana. He testified that he did not intentionally leave the scene of
the accident. Rather when he walked away it was “unknowingly,” presumably due to his
concussion. He was represented by an attorney and pursuant to a plea agreement, he
pled guilty to misdemeanor failure to stop/accident, the felony was reduced, and the other
charges dismissed. The sentence was not part of the plea agreement. He was sentenced
to six months in jail. Five and a half months of the six-month jail sentence was suspended
“for a  period  of  five  years conditions  upon  being  of  good  behavior,  keeping  the  peace,
obey  this order,  and  paying  fines  and  costs.”  He was also placed on probation for five
years. He paid the fine. The suspended sentence and probation continue until September
2025.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  aware  he  had  a  suspended  sentence  but  was
unaware how long the suspension was for. He also testified that he did not know he was
on probation because he did not to have to report to anyone. He said he was never told
by his attorney he was on probation. (Tr. 42-44, 51, 62-69, 81-83; GE 3, 5, 8)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  September  2021  SCA  that  he  was  charged  with  a
misdemeanor in March 2021 for failure to stop.2 He admitted he was sentenced and under
the section: Conviction Details he wrote: “Judge sentenced me to 5 days in jail.” No other
information about this conviction was provided. (GE 1)
In Applicant’s SOR answer, he stated:
While   at   the   hospital,   I  was   informed   by  the   investigating   officer  that
marijuana  was found  outside  of my vehicle  at the  scene  of the  accident.  I
denied  the  marijuana  belonged  to  me, and  the  charge  was dropped  by the
prosecution.   I  pled   guilty  to   the   Failure   to   Stop   and   complied   with
sentencing. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant  was  asked at  his hearing  if he  had  been  arrested  for any  other traffic
incidents. He said he had received a speeding ticket, which is not a criminal traffic offense.
He was then asked if he had any traffic charges such as reckless driving, driving while
intoxicated, or driving on a suspended license. When questioned further, he admitted he
had been stopped by police, given a field sobriety test and breathalyzer, which he passed.
He had been drinking before he was stopped but there is no evidence he was intoxicated.
He was arrested for reckless driving. This charge was later reduced to a lesser offense
of improper driving. (Tr. 91-93; GE 9)
2 Based on the records, it is apparent Applicant reported the incorrect month of the incident.
Applicant  provided   copies  of  his  military   discharge   record,  awards,  certificates,
resume, work evaluations,  disability status,  and  concussion  diagnosis. He also  provided
character  and   reference   letters.  In   them,   he   is  described   as  an   asset,  an   exemplary
noncommissioned   officer,  professional,  stellar,  conscientious,  flexible,  open-minded,
efficient, detailed-oriented, extremely competent,  likable,  knowledgeable, loyal, honest,
compassionate, disciplined,  hardworking, trustworthy, and  a  person  of integrity.  (Tr. 22-
24; AE B-N)
I did not find Applicant credible. Any derogatory information that was not alleged
will not be considered for disqualifying purposes but may be considered in the application
of  mitigating  conditions,  in  making  a  credibility  determination,  and  in  a  whole-person
analysis.
