Applicant is 59 years old.  He is on his third marriage.  He has a Master’s degree
in Business Administration.  He holds the position of Facility Lead/Senior Manager.  He
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR identified eight allegations consisting of a number of delinquent debts
totaling  in  excess  of  $88,415, which  includes  collections and  charge-off accounts. It  is
also alleged that Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy; and was terminated from his
employment with a defense contractor for misuse  of company funds.  Applicant denies
each  of  the  allegations  with  explanations.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated
September 25, 2018; January 29, 2021; February 4, 2021; November 23, 2021; March
3,  2022;  October  11,  2022;  and  October  16,  2023,  confirms  this  indebtedness.
(Government  Exhibits  5,  6,  7,  8,  9,  10,  and  11.)  Applicant  was  hired  by  defense
contractor A, his current employer in November 2020.
Applicant has been investing in real estate for the past twenty years.  He and his
ex-wife,  who  are  still  good  friends,  have  partnered  on  the  purchase  of  multiple
properties  in  the  past.  Applicant  presently  owns  several  properties  with  her.
It  is
important for him to maintain a good  credit  rating  in  order to  obtain  good  loan  interest
rates.
In  2014,  in  an  effort  to  improve  his  credit  rating,  Applicant  partnered  with  a
woman  he  thought  was  operating  a  credit  repair  company.  Applicant  stated  that  from
2014 to 2018, he was involved in what he found to be a “ponzi scheme” that instead of
improving  his  credit,  ultimately  ruined  his  credit.  He  explained  that  in  2014,  he  met a
woman  at  a  sporting  event  who  ran  a  wealth  management  company  that  did  credit
repair for their clients.  She and Applicant became  good friends and about six months
later,  Applicant  became  her  business  partner  in  her  firm.  Applicant  listened  to  her
marketing  pitches,  met  some  of  her  associates,  and  believed  that  she  was  authentic.
She  and  Applicant  agreed  that  his  role  was  to  be  the  face  of  the  company,  and  she
would operate the business.  At the time, Applicant had a 712 credit rating and hoped to
bring  it  up  to  800  in  order  to  obtain  better  real  estate  loans  and  other  financial
opportunities.  Applicant trusted his partner.  Applicant registered with the State as the
CEO, the CFO, and the Secretary of their company.  Applicant also provided her with all
of his personal information, including his address and social security number.  She used
Applicant’s  credit  to  open up  fictitious  accounts  under his name.  The  agreement  they
had  was  that  once  the  business  got  off  the  ground,  she  would  pay  the  Applicant  a
certain  number  of  dividends  each  month.  Applicant  claims  that  he  never  received  any
profit from the business, however he does admit that she paid off one of his delinquent
accounts.  Somehow, with the credit she opened in his name, she gave him money to
pay his bills from time to time.  She claimed that she was building Applicant’s credit line
with  the  accounts  that  she  opened.  She  was  supposed  to  pay  a  windfall  to  the
Applicant at some point.  But, he never received it.  At some point, during their partner
relationship  Applicant  realized  that  the  business  was  a  scam  or  “ponzi  scheme”.  He
admits that towards the end of their partnership, his business partner started paying off
some of his debt, but the damage had already been done.  (Tr. p. 105.)  In June 2021,
Applicant filed a police report and turned in his partner for scamming him.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit  C.)  Applicant stated  that  the  police  told  him  that  they  located  his  partner,  and
that  they  were  prosecuting  her.  Applicant  stated  that  in  total,  she  ran  up  about
$130,000 worth of debt in his name.  (Tr. p. 65.)  He believes that his partner is in jail
and he was left with the debt.  (Tr. p. 68.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  never  received  any  bills  from  any  of  the  creditors  for
accounts  that  she  opened  in  his  name.  He  acknowledges  that  in  2018,  he  saw  a
document that showed that he had delinquent debt, but he thought it was debt he had
previous to meeting her.  (Tr. pp. 63 – 68.)
Applicant worked for defense contractor B from 1984 to 2016.  (Tr. p. 49.)  while
at  work,  Applicant  heard  one  of  the  subcontractors  discussing  that  he  could  get  a
discount on the purchase of certain appliances.  It just so happened that Applicant was
looking to purchase a washer, dryer, and refrigerator, for his daughter who was moving
out.  Applicant  took  advantage  of  the  offer  and  ordered  the  appliances.  They  were
subsequently delivered to Applicant’s home, but never paid for.  Applicant stated that it
was about this time that he was sick and missed work for several days.  He had planned
to pay for the appliances when he got back to work.  When Applicant returned to work,
his  supervisor  confronted  him  about  the  situation  that  a  purchase  for  appliances  had
been billed to the company.  Applicant told him that he did not know how that happened,
but that he was going to straighten it out.  Applicant stated that he went to the bank to
In  June  2016,  Applicant  was
get  the  money  to  satisfy  the  debt,  but  it  was  too  late.
terminated from his employment for misuse of company funds.  (Government Exhibit 4,
and  Tr.  135  - 137.)  In  2016,  the  defense  contractor  obtained  a  judgment  against  the
Applicant for this misconduct in the amount of $8,280.  (Tr. p. 140.)
Following  his  employment  termination,  Applicant  was  unemployed from  2016  to
2018.  While  unemployed,  and  still  associating  with  his  business  partner  in  the  ponzi
In  March  2017,  he  leased  a  new
scheme,  he  purchased  a  Porshe  in  August  2016.
Escalade and traded in his 2014 Escalade.  He traveled with his business partner to Fiji
in  October  2017;  Jamaica  in  April  2017;  and  Aruba  in  April  2018.
(Tr.  p.  74-75.)
Applicant stated that by this time, he knew that his partner had opened up accounts  in
his name, he knew that the accounts were delinquent, and that he had not received any
money  from  her.  He  stated  that  he  still  traveled  internationally  with  her  because  he
wanted to meet some of the other individuals she had done business with.  (Tr. p. 75.)
Applicant testified that before he started working with her, he already had about $80,000
in debt.
Applicant stated that he consulted an attorney to determine what would be in his
best interest on how to address his excessive delinquent indebtedness.  Applicant was
advised  to  file  for  Chapter  13  Bankruptcy  which  he  filed  in  April  2020.  At  some  later
date he  spoke to another attorney in the firm  who advised him to stop the  Chapter 13
Bankruptcy,  since  he  would  have  to  pay  back  the  money.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  sold  his  home  and  used  $60,000  in  profits  to  negotiate
settlements  on  some  of  his  outstanding  debts.  Applicant  currently  earns  about
$180,000  annually.  He  also  receives  a  pension  from  defense  contractor  B  in  the
amount of $1,500 monthly.  (Tr. p. 47.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  13  Bankruptcy  in  about  April  2020.  The
Bankruptcy was dismissed as described above.  (Government Exhibit 13.)
1.b.   Applicant is indebted to CREDITOR A for an account that was charged off in
the amount of $18,244.  Applicant claims that he had two accounts with PEN FED and
that this account is not the one he opened.  He claims that this account was opened in
his name to improve his credit by his business partner as part of the business scheme.
However, during Applicant’s personal subject interview in 2021, he told the investigator
that he opened these accounts and that he used the money to pay for living expenses.
(Government Exhibit 3, 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 80.)  The debt remains owing.
1.c.
Applicant is indebted to CREDITOR B for an account that was charged off in
the  amount of  $7,602.  Applicant  claims  that  the  account  was opened  in  his  name  to
improve  his  credit  by  his  business  partner  as  part  of  the  business  scheme.
(Government Exhibits 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 82.)  The debt remains owing.
1.d. Applicant is indebted to  CREDITOR B  for another account that  was placed
for collection in the amount of $4,913.  Applicant claims that this account was opened in
his name to improve his credit by his business partner as part of the business scheme.
(Government Exhibits 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 83.)  The debt remains owing.
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to CREDITOR C for an account that was charged off
in the amount of $23,751.  Applicant claims that this account was opened in his name to
improve  his  credit  by  his  business  partner  as  part  of  the  business  scheme.
(Government Exhibits 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 83.)  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  CREDITOR  D  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection in the amount of $13,548.  Applicant claims that this account was opened in
his name to improve his credit by his business partner as part of the business scheme.
(Government Exhibits 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 83-84.)  The debt remains owing.
1.g.   Applicant is indebted to CREDITOR E for an account that was charged off in
the amount of $20,357.  Applicant claims that this account was opened in his name to
improve  his  credit  by  his  business  partner  as  part  of  the  business  scheme.
(Government Exhibits 5 through 11, and Tr. p. 84.)  The debt remains owing.
1.h.
In  March  2016,  Applicant  ordered  appliances  for  personal  use  from  a
subcontractor  for  defense  contactor  B.  The  appliances  were  billed  to  defense
contractor  B  when  Applicant  failed  to  pay  for  them.  Applicant  was  subsequently
terminated from his employment for misuse of company funds.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
