In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c and 1.e. He denied ¶¶ 1.d, 1.f,
1.h, and 1.i, with explanations. He did not specifically admit or deny SOR ¶¶ 1.g or 2.a.
As such, I will  treat  Applicant’s  lack of response to SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 2.a as a denial of
those allegations. His SOR admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  72  years  old,  married  and  has  two  adult  children.  He  obtained  his
bachelor’s  degree  in 1977.  He  started  with the  predecessor of his current  employer in
1979  and  has  continuously  remained  in  a  full-time  position  with  the  company  or  its
successor  since  then.  As  of  his  September  2021  SCA  submission,  he  was  a  senior
systems engineer. (GX 3, 5-6)
Employment  records  reflect  that,  from  2011  through  2020,  Applicant  committed
multiple  security  violations  that  required  reporting  to  the  Government  by  his  employer
under 32 CFR Part 117.8 of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual
(NISPOM). The first incident occurred in March 2011. (SOR ¶ 1.i) A company Individual
Culpability  Report  (ICR)  stated  that  company  proprietary  and  competition-sensitive
documents  were  left  unsecured  on  Applicant’s  desk.  Further  inspection  of  Applicant’s
workspace  yielded  multiple  unsecured  proprietary  documents.  A  security  citation  was
issued to Applicant. (GX 4)
In   August  2014   and   again  in  November  2014,  company  proprietary  documents
were   discovered   unsecured   in  and   around   Applicant’s  desk  and   workspace.  (SOR  ¶¶
1.g   and   1.h)  In   both   instances,  an   ICR  was  drafted   and   Applicant  received   security
citations. (GX 4)
In  September  2016,  during  a  random  building  sweep,  multiple  company
proprietary and export-controlled documents were discovered unsecured on Applicant’s
desk. (SOR ¶ 1.f) An ICR was drafted and Applicant received another security citation.
(GX 4)
In two separate incidents in April 2018, Applicant’s employer discovered that he
left  company  proprietary  and  export-controlled  documents  and  diagrams  unsecured  in
his workspace. (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e) After the first incident, Applicant was specifically
advised  that  “documents  must  be  placed  in  a  locked  cabinet  and  the  keys  not
accessible.” After the second incident two weeks later, security personal requested  that
supervisors meet with Applicant to review company procedures regarding the protection
of information. ICRs were issued in both instances. (GX 4)
In  August  2018,  during  another  random  building  sweep,  company  proprietary
documents were discovered unattended and unsecured in Applicant’s workspace. (SOR
¶  1.c) An ICR was drafted and  he  received another security  citation. It was noted that
this was his third violation that year and security personal again advised supervisors to
meet with him and take corrective measures. (GX 4)
During  “routine  monitoring  of  employee  asset  usage,”  company  investigators
observed  that,  from April through June 2020,  Applicant  sent four emails from  his work
email  account  to  his  personal  email  account  that  contained  documents  marked  as
company  proprietary.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  When  confronted,  Applicant  stated  that  he  sent  the
documents to his personal email so that he could  work on  them  at  home  since  “it  was
an inconvenience to pack up all his work assets to take home.” An ICR was drafted and
Applicant  confirmed  that  he  deleted  the  relevant  files  from  his  personal  email  and
computer. He was advised of company policies regarding the use of personal email and
received verbal counseling from his supervisor. (GX 4)
Despite  the  counseling,  in  August  2020,  Applicant  sent  another  document
marked as proprietary and export controlled from his work email to his personal email.
When confronted, Applicant stated that he sent the document to his personal email as a
template  for  another  work  project  and  believed  the  document  did  not  contain  any
proprietary  information.  However,  his  supervisor  confirmed  that  the  documents  did
contain proprietary information  and  that there was no  “legitimate business purpose” for
Applicant  to  have  sent  company  “intellectual  property”  to  his  personal  email.  Another
ICR was drafted. This was noted as Applicant’s second “data infiltration incident” within
the last 12 months and he was issued a written warning. (GX 4)
None of the reports reflect that there was ever a loss or compromise of classified
information  during  any  of  these  incidents  and  Applicant’s  supervisor  noted  that
Applicant’s  actions  were  not  “nefarious.”  When  requested  by  his employer, he  deleted
the relevant documents from his personal email and home computer. (GX 4)
In his September 2021 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he  was “written  up” by his
employer  in  April  2020  because  he  sent  a  document  marked  “company  proprietary”
from  his  work  email  to  his  personal  email.  He  explained  that  everyone  was  remote
working  during  the  COVID  pandemic  and he  was  trying to  complete  an  assignment  to
maintain the program schedule. Applicant blamed the “recent total encryption of all files”
for  making  it  “impossible”  to  work  on  any  computer  outside  of  the  network.  Applicant
emphasized that he “CREATED” the document at issue and that “there was NOTHING
classified” in it. (Emphasis in original) He did not detail any of the other incidents in his
SCA. (GX 3)
During  his  December  2021  background  interview  with  a  DOD  investigator,
Applicant  again  disclosed  that  he  had  received  a  written  warning  in  April  2020.  He
described  sending  a  document  that  he  was  drafting  from  his  work  computer  to  his
personal  email  to  continue  working  on  the  document.  The  investigator  noted  that
Applicant “considered the document to be unclassified”  and, at the time,  was unaware
that he was not allowed to send the document to his personal computer. He described
later  meeting  with  his  supervisor  about  the  incident  and  being  required  to  review
company  policy  on  handling  proprietary  information.  Afterwards,  he  claimed  to
understand the company policy and admitted his mistake. (GX 5)
Also  during  his  background  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had  been
employed with the company for over 40 years and that this was the “first incident of this
nature that he  had  been  involved  in.” He did not detail the other incidents or ICRs that
he had received. (GX 5)
In his Answer, Applicant  stated  that  he  did not  “completely admit fault nor deny
culpability” regarding  the  incidents from  2011  through  2018. He stated  that "[company]
proprietary”  was  the  “de  facto”  label  for  everything  that  came  off  the  printer or  that  he
worked  with  on  the  computer.  He  further  stated  that  he  was  “always  under  the
assumption”  that  he  worked  in  a  “safe  and  secure  environment”  and  that  no  one  was
“allowed  to  graze  through  the  offices  and  laboratories  (without  challenge)  to  examine
and  take  what  they  wish.”  He  also  questioned  company  policy  as  he  stated  it  was
“peculiar” that his company defined “properly secure” as the use of “simple office locks.”
(Answer)
With regard to the incidents from April through August 2020, Applicant  admitted
the  relevant  allegations,  but  only  discussed  the  incidents  as  a  single  event.  He  stated
that, “as time became short,” he sent documents to his personal email so that he could
complete the task on time.  He further stated that once he was notified of the error, he
deleted the material from his home computer that day. (Answer)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  he  did  not  provide  any  further
information to explain or mitigate his actions.
