Applicant,  58,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  December  2020  as  a
project manager. He was previously granted access to classified information by another
government agency in March 2009, but only held an active security clearance between
2010 and 2012, when he returned to work in the private sector.  He completed his most
recent  security  clearance  application  in  January  2021.  He  disclosed  marijuana  use
between December 1983 and October 2020. He disclosed being terminated from jobs in
March  2018  and  November  2020  for  testing  positive  for  Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
the  principal  psychoactive  component  in  marijuana,  on  urinalysis  tests.  He  also
disclosed incidents of drug-related criminal conduct in 1992 and 2013. The background
investigation  discovered  additional  drug-related  criminal  conduct  dating  back  to  1988.
(GE 1)
Applicant’s  drug  history  dates  to  high  school.  He  began  using  the  drug  his
sophomore year in high school. At some point, he began selling marijuana cigarettes. In
January 1984, during his senior year of high school, school officials found marijuana in
his  locker.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with  violating  State1’s  controlled  substances
act and two counts of disorderly conduct. He was expelled from school, which housed
the honors program in which he had been enrolled. He was required to finish his senior
year  at  an  alternative  high  school.  Because  of  his  prior  performance,  he  was  able  to
keep  the  scholar’s  distinction  he  earned  at  the  previous  school  on  his  diploma.  He
received a suspended sentence on the criminal charges. (GE 6; Tr. 81-83)
He attended college in State 1, between August 1984 and May 1989, earning a
bachelor’s  degree  in  physics.  During  college,  he  used  marijuana  recreationally  with
friends.  He  was  arrested  in  May  1988  in  State  2,  where  he  traveled  with  a  group  of
friends  to  go  to  a  party  or  nightclub.  The  group  left  the  event,  intending  to  smoke
marijuana in the car they used to travel to State 2. Applicant did not own the car and he
was  not  the  driver.  A  police  officer  observed  them  in  the  car  and  approached  the
vehicle. Upon doing so, the officer noticed an open container of alcohol. Applicant and
his friends were arrested and charged with possession of marijuana.  He  was released
from jail the next morning on his own recognizance but was required to return to State 2
for  the  criminal  proceedings.  He  appeared,  as  required,  represented  by  counsel.  He
was found not guilty. (GE 1; GE 6; Tr. 84-85)
After  graduating   from   college   in  May  1989,  he   accepted   a  job   in  his  hometown
and  lived  with  a  roommate.  Though  he  does  not remember the  circumstances, he  was
arrested   after  police   came   to   his  home   and   while  there  found   marijuana   on   the
premises. Applicant maintains that  the  marijuana did not belong to him. He was arrested
for possession  of marijuana  in  September 1989. The  charges  were  dismissed.  (Tr. 87-
88)
Shortly after the September 1989 event, Applicant began selling drugs. Although
he  was  working,  he  did  not  feel  that  he  was  earning  enough  money.  At  first,  he  sold
marijuana.  Sometime  in  1991,  he  began  selling  cocaine.  In  August  1991,  he  was
arrested for possession with intent to distribute cocaine after a buyer, who was working
with the police, set up a transaction that ended in Applicant’s arrest. (Tr. 91-96)
While pending trial on that matter, he continued to sell cocaine and was arrested
again  in  May  1993.  A  police  officer  attempted  a  traffic  stop  on  the  car  Applicant  was
driving. Instead of pulling over, he led the police on a brief chase, throwing the cocaine
out of the window as he drove. Ultimately, he decided to pull over. He was charged with
misdemeanors for prohibited offensive weapons, reckless endangerments, and violating
the  controlled  substance,  drug  device,  and  cosmetic  act.  The  charges  were
consolidated  with  those  from  the  August  1991  arrest.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  one  felony
and  one  misdemeanor  count  of  violating  State  1’s  controlled  substances  act  and  was
sentenced  to  18  to  36  months  incarceration.  Initially,  he  served  his  time  in  a  halfway
house, but after violating curfew, he was transferred to a state penitentiary to serve the
remainder of his sentence. He was released in August 1996, and ordered to serve five
years  supervised  parole.  The  court  granted  him  early  release  after  determining  that
Applicant’s life was headed in a positive direction. He had enrolled in a graduate degree
program and started working a job in his field that required travel.  (GE 4, 6; Tr. 96-100)
After  he  was  released  from  parole,  he  resumed  using  marijuana.  He  used  the
drug  once  or  twice  per  week.  He  stopped  using  when  his  wife  got  pregnant  in  1998.
Despite  his  1993  felony  conviction,  Applicant  obtained  a  security  clearance  from
another government agency in March 2009. During his 2009 background investigation,
he  discussed  his  history  of  drug  use  and  drug-related  criminal  history  in  two  subject
interviews in August and October of 2009. In the October 2009 interview, he stated that
he had no intention of using marijuana in the future. He claims he did not use marijuana
while he had an active security clearance. (GE 1, 6)
He abstained from marijuana use until 2013, when he resumed use to help with
the  nausea,  he  experienced  on  deep  sea  fishing  trips.  At  first,  he used  Dramamine  to
address  the  nausea.  While  it  helped,  it  upset  his  stomach.  A  friend  recommended
marijuana  to  help  with  the  issue.  He  did  not  consult  his  physician  for  another  legally
available  remedy.  He  would  either  smoke  the  drug  or  consume  edibles  on  each  trip
which he took at least three times per year.  (Tr. 25-27, 102-105,122-123)
In April 2013, Applicant was traveling from his home to State 3 for a fishing trip.
He  was  pulled  over  for  speeding.  During  the  traffic  stop,  the  police  officer  smelled
marijuana  in  the  car.  Applicant  admitted  to  the  officer  that  there  was  marijuana  in  the
center console. He consented to a search of the vehicle, during which the officer found
a gun in the driver’s side door pocket. Because of his status as a convicted felon, he is
unable to possess firearms. Applicant and his passenger were arrested and released on
their  own  recognizance  a  few  hours  later.  He  was  charged  with  two  counts  of  felony
firearm  possession  (which  carried  a  possible  15-year  prison  sentence),  concealing  a
dangerous weapon, possession of marijuana, and speeding. Applicant explained that he
was driving his wife’s car and did not realize the gun was in the car. At the hearing, she
testified that she placed her loaded gun in the driver’s door pocket the day before when
she went into a store. She forgot to place the gun back in her purse, leaving it in the car
without  Applicant’s  knowledge.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  possession  of  a  firearm  and  was
sentenced  to  probation  before  judgment  for  one  year.  He  also  pleaded  guilty  to
possession of marijuana and received a 90-day suspended sentence. He was fined for
speeding. (GE 3, Tr. 105-113)
Applicant  continued  to  use  marijuana  on  his  fishing  trips.  In  March  2018,
Applicant  was  working  for  a  municipal  transit  agency,  responsible  for  providing
hundreds of millions of rides to patrons each year. The team on which he was working
was  involved  in  an  incident  on  the  tracks  caused  by  a  lapse  in  safety  protocols.
Although  neither  he  nor  his  team  were  responsible  for  the  incident,  agency  protocol
dictated that all involved in the incident were required to submit to a urinalysis test. He
was aware that the transit service, for which he had been working since June 2012, had
a  zero-tolerance  drug  policy.  He  tested  positive  for  THC  and  was  fired.  He  was
unemployed  for more  than  a  year.  Applicant,  the  only source  of  income  for  his  family,
had to cash out his retirement account, which contained $100,000 to support his family.
At the time, he was 52 years old. (GE 1, 6; Tr. 119, 147, 151-156)
In   March  2020,  Applicant  began   working   for  a   private   transit  company.   The
company  had  a  zero-tolerance   drug   policy  of  which   Applicant  was  aware.   In   August
2020,  he   contracted   Covid-19.   When   the   medication   he   received   did  not  alleviate   his
symptoms,   he   testified   that  his  doctor  prescribed   a   medication   that   he   did   not   want   to
take.  Instead   of  seeking   another  medical  option   to   treat   his  symptoms,  Applicant
decided   to   use   an  over-the-counter  cannabidiol  (CBD)   product.   He  cannot  recall   the
product   that  he   used.   After  doing   research   on   the   internet,  he   believed   that  the   CBD
product   he   chose   did  not   contain   enough   THC   to   be   detected   on   a   urinalysis   test.   He
was subject  to  a  random urinalysis  in October 2020,  tested  positive for THC, and  was
fired. He attempted to  explain  his actions to the employer, to  no  avail. (Tr. 124-128, 156-
157, 159-166)
Since  his  release  from  prison  in  1996,  Applicant  has  accomplished  much.  He
earned a master’s degree from a nationally recognized university in 2000. Shortly after
earning  his  master’s  degree,  he  started  a  business  to  provide  technology  equipment
and  solutions  to  community  groups and  organizations.  He  also  cofounded  a  non-profit
organization  providing  technical  and  certification  training  and  testing  for  low-income
youth  and  young  adults,  ultimately  placing  them  in  information  technology  positions.
Both  organizations benefitted  his hometown  in State  1. In  2022, he  started  another non-
profit   organization   dedicated   to   exposing   young   people  to   opportunities   in  science,
technology,   engineering,  math,  entrepreneurship,  robotics,  and   other  life   skills.  He   is
active   in  his  fraternity,  a   community   service  organization   dedicated   to   developing   a
culture for service  and service  for  humanity, and  to promote  scholarship  and  service.  He
has earned numerous awards and  accommodations  for his  community  service.
Applicant claims that he has not used marijuana or CBD products since October
2020. Although he still goes on deep sea fishing trips with the same friend, he now uses
a nausea relief bracelet to deal with seasickness.
