In  Applicant’s response  to  the  SOR, he  admitted  allegations in SOR ¶¶  1.a  through
1.c; including  the  amendment to  SOR ¶  1.b. He  denied  allegations in SOR ¶¶  2.a  through
2.c.  Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old. He was born and raised in State 1, and resided there
from  his  birth  until  he  moved  away  for  college  in  1996.  In  December  2001,  he  was
awarded a bachelor’s degree in engineering. Applicant returned to State 1 after college,
and resided there until he moved to State 2, his current state of legal residence, in June
2016. He has never been married and has no children. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 12, 30-35)
Since  June  2016,  Applicant  has  worked  as  a  program  engineer  for  a  defense
contractor.  He  previously  worked  as  mechanical  engineer  for  a  different  defense
contractor from March 2005 through May 2016. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 12, 30-35)
Applicant testified he has completed a total of three SCAs since he began working
with  defense  contractors:  in  2002,  2012,  and  2022.  He  has  held  a  secret  security
clearance since 2002. In March 2004, he signed a DOD nondisclosure agreement. During
his testimony, he acknowledged participating in regular security clearance briefings, and
training required to maintain his secret security clearance. He stated he is seeking a top-
secret  security  clearance  to  enhance  his  professional  opportunities  as  a  program
engineer.  He testified he  routinely  participates  in  classified meetings  as  part  of his  job
responsibilities since at least 2016, and he verified he works in a sensitive position. (GE
1 – GE 4; Tr. 24-35, 62)
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged Applicant purchased and used marijuana with
varying  frequency  from  January  2016  through  October  2022  (SOR  ¶  1.a);  after  being
granted access to classified information or while holding a sensitive position (SOR ¶ 1.b);
and that he intended to use marijuana in the future (SOR ¶1.c).
In  his March 2022  SCA, Applicant  denied  he  illegally used  or purchased  any drugs
or  controlled   substances   in   his  March   2022   SCA   (SOR   ¶¶   2.a   -  2.c).   Specifically,   he
answered  “no” in response to  three  questions  in Section  23, Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug
Activity, which  asked  whether, in  the  last  seven  years, he  had:  (1) illegally used  any drugs
or  controlled   substances;   (2)  illegally  purchased,  received,   handled,  etc.,   any  drug   or
controlled  substance,  and;  (3)  whether  he  had  ever  illegally  used  or  otherwise  been
illegally involved with drugs while possessing a security clearance. (GE 1 pp. 31-32)
During his April 2022 investigative interview, Applicant, after being administered
an oath, was asked whether he had used any illegal drugs in the past seven years, to
which he responded “yes.” He first disclosed he purchased and used “chocolate edible”
marijuana in January 2022 while vacationing in a South American country. He stated he
consumed one marijuana edible per day over the course of five days during the trip. Next,
he disclosed he smoked marijuana in March 2021 after the funeral of a beloved relative.
He  stated  other persons  provided  him  with  the marijuana  on that occasion;  he did  not
purchase it himself. (GE 3 pp.3, 5-6; Tr. 36-39)
Applicant then summarized his pattern of marijuana use to the investigator, stating
he  used  marijuana  recreationally  about  twice  a  year  since  2016,  typically  on  special
occasions like birthdays or big events. He described feeling relaxed, and less anxious or
socially awkward after consuming marijuana. When the investigator asked why he did not
disclose  his  marijuana  use  in  his  SCA,  he  stated  he  “just  forgot  about  it.”  When  the
investigator asked about his future intent concerning marijuana use, he stated he would
still use it, but would reserve his use to when he was in a safe environment. He further
stated he would not let marijuana compromise the quality of his job;  and that he would
not  become  dependent  upon  it.  Applicant  confirmed  to  the  investigator  that  he  knew
marijuana was federally illegal, as discussed infra. (GE 3 pp. 5-6; Tr. 36-39, 55-60)
In his November 2022 response to government interrogatories, Applicant provided
more details about his marijuana involvement. He disclosed the exact date, place, and
occasion  he  first  used  marijuana:  on  January  23,  2016,  in  State  1,  to  celebrate  his
birthday. He last used marijuana on October 29, 2022, in State 2, to celebrate Halloween
weekend events. He stated he purchased marijuana edibles a few times a year from a
local smoke shop near his residence in State 2. He last purchased marijuana on October
28,  2022,  the  day  before  his  Halloween  weekend  events.  During  his  testimony,  he
described his marijuana use as sporadic and stated he probably used it less than 25 total
times  during  the  six-year  period.  He  reiterated  that  he  used  marijuana  in  “safe”
environments like his home, with a brother, cousins, or others he trusted. (GE 3 pp. 5-14;
Tr.  39- 47)  When  asked  when,  if  ever,  he  had  decided  to  stop  using  marijuana,  he
responded:
I suspend  use  of (marijuana) during  work hours or when  I don’t feel safe.
Last  use   was  Halloween   weekend   (10/29/2022).  Can   and   will   stop   if
required  to  maintain  clearance  and/or perform  work duties responsibly.  (GE
3 at 10)
When asked the reason he decided to use marijuana in January 2016 in the first
place, Applicant stated:
The  national  conversation  around  THC and  marijuana,  especially  in  (State
1), had  come  to  a  place  where a  lot  of the  stigma  had  been  dying  down.  It
was easily accessible, and  when  I say easily accessible,  I don't mean  that I
bought it. I mean  that people around  me  would  use  it.  And  I made  a  decision,
on  my  birthday,  safe  in  my  home, with  people  I trusted  that, okay,  I guess,
I'll  give this a shot.  … It had been decriminalized in (State 1).  (Tr. 36-37)
Applicant also testified that COVID-19 presented lots of stressors and challenges
for him. He eventually became the caretaker of his mother who has dementia, and who
currently resides with him. He stated that, although he was in counseling while living in
another state, he had not been successful at finding a counselor in his current state of
residence,  primarily,  because  he  wanted  a  counselor  to  work  with  him  in-person  vice
online. (Tr. 72-74)
Applicant testified he was well-educated on the federal illegality of marijuana in the
United States. When asked whether he ever had any reason to believe marijuana was
ever federally legalized, he responded:
I had  reason  to  believe  that it  wasn't as severe. And  when  I say  reason  to
believe,   it   doesn't  mean   I  was  right,   it   just  means   that  this  was  the
impression  that I was  getting  from  the  climate  of  the  country that, in  other
words, it would be  possible  to  assess one's capability to  hold a  clearance
and   be   a   responsible,   contributing   member  to   this  United   States  society,
even if they've used  marijuana.  (Tr. 49-50)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  the  investigator  asked  whether  he  knew
marijuana  was  still  classified  as  a  Schedule  I  drug,  to  which  he  responded,  “I  do.”  He
stated his conversation with the investigator ended on that point, and that, looking back,
he wished the investigator had told him to stop using marijuana. He explained his belief
that the investigator’s verification of his knowledge about the federal illegality of marijuana
to  him  meant  that,  if  he  was  being  responsible  while  using  marijuana,  this  was  okay.
Applicant was aware of his employer’s drug policy prohibiting the use of illegal drugs, and
stated he was subject to random drug urinalysis testing as  a condition of employment.
When asked if he was concerned about being randomly drug tested, he said “no” he was
not concerned.  (Tr. 55-60)
The  language  at the  beginning  of Section  23, Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug  Activity,
instructs applicants  on  the  scope  and  context  of  questions  asked  in  the  section.  It  reads
in pertinent part:  “The  following  questions pertain to  the  illegal use  of  drugs or controlled
substances  or drug  or  controlled  substance  activities in accordance  with  Federal laws,
even   though   permissible  under  state   laws   (emphasis  added).”  Applicant  testified   he
overlooked  this language  when  he  completed  his SCA. He stated  he  denied  allegations
in SOR ¶¶  2.a  –  2.c  because  he  did  not believe  his use  and  purchase  of marijuana  on
various  occasion   were   illegal   at   the   time   he   completed   his  SCA.  He   asserted   such
activities  had   been   decriminalized   in  State   1   and   State   2   at  the   time   he   used   and
purchased  marijuana. However, Applicant did  not provide  a  copy  of,  nor did he  reference,
the laws in State 1 and State 2 that he proclaimed legalized or de-criminalized his drug
activities during the relevant periods in each state. Towards the end of his testimony at
the hearing, Applicant requested to change his answer regarding his intent to continue
using marijuana, to state that he “would just discontinue use.” He further commented “it’s
not worth losing my job over, or my clearance. I’m not going to die on this hill.” (GE 1 at
31; Tr. 59-65)
Applicant  made  inconsistent  statements  concerning  his  failure  to  disclose  his
illegal drug use or drug activities in his March 2022 SCA. In his April 2022 interview, he
told  the  investigator  he  “just  forgot  about  it.”  In  his  SOR  response  and  during  his
testimony, he asserted he did not disclose his illegal drug use or drug activities because
he believed his activities were not illegal. During the hearing, he repeatedly commented
on his desire to be honest. (GE 3 at 3; Tr. 14, 53-56, 62, 69-72)
Applicant testified he was highly successful at work. He stated he was generally
rated in the “B-range,” exceeding expectations. He received on the spot awards for work
performed  in  2002  and  2021,  but  stated  that  he  was  just  doing  his  job  but  something
“stuck out.” (Tr. 74-78)
