Applicant is a 28-year-old industrial engineer with a defense contractor. She has
worked for the company since 2018. She is single. Applicant has a bachelor of science
degree.  She  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  granted  in  approximately  March
2019 in connection with her work with the DoD. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12,
13A, 17, and 25.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  all  five  allegations  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
1.a.   Applicant  admitted  purchasing  and  using  marijuana  with  various  frequency
from approximately 2013 to at least April 2022.
The  evidence  is  mixed  as  to  how  many  times  Applicant  used  marijuana.  She
testified that she believed she used marijuana about 20 times, with the period of greatest
use being between 2019 and 2022. However, she also testified that she was unclear as
to the number of times she used it. (Tr. 47-48.)
Applicant later testified  concerning  her marijuana  use, “I would  say three  to  four
times a month maybe at the most with that not being the case every month. I previously
mentioned  that  from  maybe  2020  to  2021  it  was  a  little  bit  more  regular  just  with  the
situation  of  the  pandemic.”  She  further  testified  that  she  would  purchase  marijuana  at
various legal marijuana dispensaries less than five times a year during the same period.
She was unable to quantify her use of marijuana any further. (Tr. 50-51, 79-81, 88.)
In  Applicant’s 2022  e-QIP  (Government Exhibit  1 at Section 25) she  stated that
she intended to continue to use marijuana in the future. She has since stated that she no
longer  has  an  intention  to  use  marijuana  or  any  other  drugs.  She  further  submitted  a
signed  statement  of  intent  not  to  use  or  be  involved  with  illegal  drugs  in  the  future.
(Applicant Exhibit I; Tr. 52-53.)
1.b. Applicant admitted using hallucinogenic mushrooms twice. Once in 2015 and
the second time in 2022. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 25; Tr. 54, 78-79.)
1.c. Applicant admitted using cocaine approximately ten times between April 2019
and March 2022. She admitted that she used cocaine after being employed and having
a security clearance because, “I wanted to try it.” She further testified that she did think
about the fact she held a security clearance at the time she was using it, but that fact did
not stop her. She indicated that she now knows her judgment was not sound at that time.
Finally, she admitted about her use of cocaine, “I liked  the  experience.” (Tr. 57-58, 78,
81-82, 88-89.)
1.d. Applicant admitted using illegal stimulants such as ecstasy about five times
between February 2021 and March 2022. (Tr. 58-59, 79, 82.)
1.e.   As  stated,  Applicant  received  a  security  clearance  in  March  2019.  A
substantial  portion  of  drug  use  history  as  described  above  occurred  during  the  period
after she received her security clearance. She felt that her drug use before 2022 while
holding a security clearance was not impactful on her job. She now states that this belief
was wrong. (Tr. 78-79, 90-91.)
Applicant has stated  that she  has no  intent of using  marijuana  or other illegal drugs
in the  future. She  testified  that one  of the  reasons she  has stopped  using  drugs was,  “I
would say it’s not worth  the  fun.” She  further  stated  that drug  use  no  longer aligns with
her  values.  She   has  taken   several  steps  to   assure  the   Government  that  she   is  being
proactive  in preventing  a  future  problem. Applicant has  taken  courses  in drug  and  alcohol
awareness,  behavior  modification,  and   marijuana   education.  She   has  taken   several
negative  drug  tests. (Applicant  Exhibits H, J, K, L,  and  N;  Tr. 64, 71-72, 74-75, 86,  91-
92.)
Applicant received an evaluation  dated February 15, 2023, from a psychologist.
The  report  covered  the  area  of  drug  abuse.  (Applicant  Exhibit  M.)  He  conducted  a
thorough examination of Applicant that included an interview, various psychological tests,
and review of relevant documentation. The psychologist opined, “Psychological testing
suggested  she  [Applicant]  is  free  of  indicators  of  substance  use  problems  and  clinical
interview and observation confirmed the same.” (Applicant Exhibit M at 5; Tr. 64.)
As stated, Applicant has also submitted a signed statement of intent “not to use or
be  involved with illegal drugs in the  future.” The  statement also  declared that Applicant
understood  that  such  involvement “may be  grounds for revocation or denial of national
security eligibility.” (Applicant Exhibit I.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because she has engaged in conduct that shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness, or
unreliability.  Applicant  admitted  both  the  allegations  under  this  paragraph  with
explanations.
2.a. Applicant filled out her initial e-QIP in September 2018. (Government Exhibit
the
2.) Section 23 of the questionnaire asked about her drug use history. Specifically,
question asked whether she had used controlled substances during the previous seven
years. She stated, “No.” This was a false answer to a relevant question about Applicant’s
drug use history. (Tr. 77-78.)
Applicant testified that she gave a false answer because:
I was scared.  I  was immature, I saw that  as  are you  a  serious  drug, do  we
have   a   problem,   and   I   had   barely  used   marijuana   in  the   past  and   I  had
barely, I  don’t think  I ever felt  a  high.  It  was more  of  a  social thing  to  fit  in
that  I had  done   it,  and   so   I  didn’t  feel the   need   to  disclose   it  and   have   it
impact me, and I was scared. And I know that was wrong. (Tr. 67.)
Applicant filled out a second e-QIP in May 2022. (Government Exhibit 1.) She was
more forthcoming about her use of illegal drugs on that document and in a subsequent
interview. (Government Exhibit 4.) She testified that between 2018 and 2022 she did not
tell anyone at her employer about her drug use history. (Tr. 68-69.)
2.b.  The  Government alleges in  this subparagraph  that the  Applicant’s drug  use
history  after  being  granted  a  security  clearance,  as  set  forth  under  subparagraph  1.e,
above, is also cognizable under Guideline E.
Mitigation
Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  testified  on  her  behalf  and  provided  a  written
statement. His recent evaluation of Applicant was also provided. He has known her since
she began work for her employer in 2018, and has been her supervisor for a little over a
year as  of the date  of the  hearing.  He  has a  security  clearance and  is knowledgeable
about the allegations in the SOR. He testified that Applicant is a person of integrity and
trustworthiness,  that  she  is  one  of  his  top  performers,  and  that  he  continues  to  have
confidence in her. He recommends her for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibits C at 2
and P; Tr. 19-42.)
Additional  letters  of  recommendation  were  submitted  by  two  coworkers  and
Applicant’s former manager. Each of them has known Applicant for about a year. All of
them  have  knowledge  of  the  allegations  in  this  case.  They  all  state  that  Applicant  is
trustworthy  and  believable.  They  find  her  to  be  a  hard-working  person  of  integrity  and
recommend her for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibits C at 1, 3 and N.)
Applicant is viewed as an excellent performer by her employer in her most recent
annual  evaluation.  She  has  repeatedly  received  recognition  for  her  job  performance.
(Applicant Exhibit D.)
