Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  employee  who  requires  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  as  a  system
administrator  for  a  company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since
January 2008. He has not held a security clearance in the past according to his security
clearance application. (Exhibit 3 at Section 25) His first marriage ended in divorce. He
married for the second time in 1996. He has three children, two adult daughters and a
minor son. His education history shows he received a high school diploma in 1984. He
has lived at the same residential address since 2004.
The SOR alleges and Applicant admits a history of financial problems consisting
of four delinquent accounts in amounts of $842, $65,291, $186, and $826 for a total of
about  $67,145.  In  addition  to  his  admissions,  the  delinquent  accounts  are  established
by admissible evidence. (Exhibits 3, 4, 5, and 6)
Applicant  disclosed  the  largest  of  the  debts  when  he  completed  his  security
clearance  application.  (Exhibit  3  at  Section  26)  In  February  2015  he  suffered  a  heart
attack  during  work  hours  and  was  rushed  to  a  nearby  Army  medical  center  for
treatment.  Although  he  had  medical  insurance  (Answer  at  4),  he  was  registered  as  a
civilian patient without insurance.
Applicant  was  unaware  of  the  mistake  until  about  March  27,  2015,  when  the
Department  of  the  Treasury  notified  him  of  the  medical  indebtedness.  (Answer  at  10)
The  collection  letter  indicated  that  he  owed  $39,473,  and  that  collection  action  would
continue  unless  he  made  payment  within  ten  days  in  the  amount  of  $50,525,  which
included all applicable fees, interest, and penalties.
Applicant challenged the amount of the indebtedness through a hearing process
with the Treasury Department. He filed a hearing request on April 13, 2015, in response
to a second letter indicating an intention to initiate an administrative wage garnishment.
(Answer at 3, 5)
Applicant  also  contacted  his  health  insurer  seeking  their  assistance.  They
requested  he  provide  an  itemized  bill  from  the  Army  medical  center.  He  submitted  a
claim to his insurer on June 15, 2015, which included the documentation he was able to
obtain  from  the  Army  medical  center.  (Answer  at  11-27)  He  reports  that  his  insurer
deemed his submission was insufficient and denied the claim.
In  the  meantime,  Applicant’s  April  2015  request  for  a  hearing  with  the  relevant
office  of  the  Treasury  Department  stopped  or  at  least  delayed  the  wage  garnishment
action.  Applicant  stated  he  “was  foolish  in  believing  the  problem  had  gone  away.”
(Answer  at  3)  The  problem  had  not  gone  away  but  it  did  lie  dormant  until  November
2019 when the Treasury Department issued a wage garnishment order with a balance
due of $63,891. (Answer at 6-10) A July 2019 credit report indicates a balance due of
$65,291.  (Exhibit  5)  A  June  2020  credit  report  indicates  a  balance  due  of  $62,403.
(Exhibit 6) The current status of this account and the other three delinquent accounts is
addressed below.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  concerns  an  $842  collection  account  owed  to  the
Department of the Treasury. In his answer to the SOR and his November 2020 e-mail,
Applicant explained that he paid the debt in April 2020 but lost the receipt. The debt is
reported as delinquent in the July 2019 credit report but not the more recent June 2020
credit  report.  (Exhibits  5  and  6)  It  is  also  reported  in  an  extract  of  Applicant’s  Equifax
credit  report  of  April  2020.  (Exhibit  A  at  Attachment  4).  Of  note,  the  June  2020  credit
report shows a past-due balance of $0. (Exhibit 6 at 2-3) He also submitted a June 2015
collection  letter  with  handwritten  notes  or  annotations  reflecting  efforts  to  pay  the
account.  (Exhibit  A  at  Attachment  3)  Taken  together,  the  evidence  is  sufficient  to  find
that Applicant paid the debt.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  concerns  the  largest  debt,  the  more  than  $60,000
collection  account  for the  necessary  medical  care  and treatment  Applicant  received  at
the  Army  medical  center.  This  account  is  being  repaid  via  the  administrative
garnishment  order  issued  by  the  Treasury  Department.  He  submitted  documentation
showing repayment of the debt via the tools typically used by the federal government in
collection  cases.  He  provided  four  earnings  statements  from  his  employer  showing  a
deduction of $272.86 for  garnishment once  every two weeks. (Exhibit A at Attachments
8,  9,   10,   and  11)  Year  to   date,   as   of   October  23,  2020,  the  amount  of   $6,281.35  had
been garnished  from his wages. (Exhibit A at Attachment 11)  In addition to the biweekly
wage garnishment,  he  provided documentation showing that in  October 2020 a federal
income tax refund for tax  year 2019 was applied to this debt in  the amount of $1,572.05.
(Exhibit A at Attachments 1-2)
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.c concerns a $186 medical collection account. In his answer
to the SOR and his November 2020 e-mail, Applicant explained he paid or settled this
account.  He  provided  documentation  showing  he  settled  the  account  for  the  lesser
amount of $121 with the current account holder in April 2020. (Exhibit A at Attachments
5 and 6) Consistent with his representation, the debt does not appear in the June 2020
credit report provided by Department Counsel. (Exhibit 6) Taken together, the evidence
is sufficient to find that Applicant settled the debt.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  concerns  an  $826  collection  account  placed  by  a  bank
that  is  a  major  credit  card  company  for  many  U.S.  retail  stores.  Applicant  provided
documentation that he settled the account for the lesser amount of $578 with the current
account holder in about November 2020. (Exhibit A at Attachment 7)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
1   Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.   518,  528  (1988)  (“it   should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security  clearance”); Duane v.  Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in   the   financial   problem  were
largely beyond  the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,   unexpected  medical   emergency,  a  death,   divorce,  or
separations,   clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and  the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
5  ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6  Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning  to  the  matters  in  mitigation,  I  note  that  the  largest  debt  here  is  still  in
collection and is being repaid through an administrative garnishment order issued by the
Department  of  the  Treasury.  This  size  of  the  debt  dwarfs  the  other  three  debts  in  the
SOR,  it  will  take  time  to  repay  at  the  biweekly  rate  of  $279,  and  it  was  no  doubt  the
primary reason for issuance of the SOR.
Applicant  has  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  this  debt  by
showing it resulted from two circumstances largely beyond his control. The first was the
heart attack followed by the billing mistake at the Army medical center that resulted in
him  being  classified  as  a  non-insured  civilian  patient  when  he  in  fact  had  medical
insurance.  Obviously,  Applicant  could  not  pick  the  time  and  place  for  his  heart  attack
nor  the  medical facility  where  he  was  treated.  The second was  his  insurer’s  refusal to
pay  his  claim  for  the  necessary  medical  treatment  and  care  received  at  the  Army
medical  center.  A  double  whammy.  Moreover,  he  acted  responsibly  under  the
circumstances.  After  learning  about  the  issue  in  March  2015,  about  45  days  after  his
heart  attack,  he  then  contacted  both  the  Treasury  Department  and  his  insurer  in  an
effort to resolve it. He  subsequently took his foot off the gas pedal when the Treasury
Department apparently did not timely respond to his request for a hearing and he should
have been more diligent in that regard, as he acknowledged being foolish thinking the
problem had went away. But given the totality of the circumstances, he did not conduct
himself  irresponsibly.  Accordingly,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b)  applies  in
Applicant’s favor.
Applicant has made “a good-faith effort” to resolve the other three minor debts in
the SOR, which together amount to less than $2,000. He provided sufficient  (although
not  perfect)  documentation  to  establish  that  he  paid  or  settled  those  three  accounts.
Perhaps  he  could  have  acted  with  more  diligence  or  speed,  but  it  must  be
acknowledged that he resolved those three debts while at the same time being subject
to  the  wage  garnishment  order.  Accordingly,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(d)
applies in Applicant’s favor.
Cases such as this one are a good reminder for us all. Job loss, divorce, a string
of failed investments, being a victim of fraud, getting hit by a risk you didn’t see coming
such  as  a  medical  emergency  –  to  people  in  good  financial  shape  these  tend  to  be
viewed as things that happen  “to other people.”  But it can happen to you. And given
enough time, at least one likely will. No doubt some people are more susceptible than
others, but few are exempt from being humbled.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  and
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I
conclude  that  he  has  met  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly
consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  -- 1.d:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
