Applicant is a 53-year-old test engineer for a defense contractor, employed since
2010. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in  1989 from a U.S. military academy, a
master’s degree in 1996 from a military post-graduate school, and a professional degree
in aerospace engineering in 1997 from a military test pilot school. He honorably served
on active duty in the military from 1989 to 2020, when he retired. Applicant was a pilot in
the military until he retired, and began civilian employment as a test pilot and engineer for
a defense contractor. He was promoted to director, lead tester, and manager in 2016.
Applicant also owns and manages a consulting business.  He married in 1993 and has
three children, ages 18 to 25. He currently has a secret security clearance. His security
eligibility was previously suspended in 2006 and reinstated in 2009.
The SOR alleges under Guideline D (Sexual Behavior) that (SOR ¶ 1.a) on at least
three occasion between August 2006 and September 2006, Applicant videotaped up the
skirts  of  unsuspecting  women  without  their  consent;  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  in  September  2006,
Applicant was charged and found guilty of five counts of Unlawful Filming or Photography
of Another; and (SOR ¶ 1.c) in June 2017, Applicant attempted to take video up the skirts
of various women in a department store without consent. As a result, he was charged in
February 2018 with filming a nude person without consent. Finally, the SOR cross-alleges
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, under Guideline J (Criminal Conduct).
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a and 1.b. He denied SOR
¶ 1.c, filming women in 2017 at a department store, but admitted to being charged. He
noted the charge was dismissed and that he is applying for an expungement of the record.
He generally admitted SOR ¶ 2.a consistent with his admissions in SOR ¶ 1. He submitted
background information about himself, a “life synopsis,” and performance evaluations with
his Answer.
2006 Episodes of Criminal Sexual Conduct
In September 2006, while on active duty, Applicant was arrested at an airport after
a  passenger  notified  police  that  Applicant  was  using  a  camcorder  placed  underneath
women’s dresses to record them (known as “up skirting”) while they picked up bags at a
baggage carrousel. Applicant was traveling on official Government business. Applicant
was confronted by police at the scene, and he denied that he had taken pictures or filmed
anyone or anything. Applicant also denied possessing any tapes or media memory cards
for the camcorder.
During questioning by police, Applicant moved from his seat and a videotape fell
out from his pocket underneath him. When confronted by a police supervisor, Applicant
changed his story and confessed to filming women by sliding his bag underneath their
skirt without their consent or knowledge. Applicant consented to a search of his bag, and
a  video  camera  and  several  tapes  were  found.  The  police  viewed  the  recordings  and
confirmed that Applicant positioned the camera inside of his bag with the camera lens
facing up, and recorded five women. Applicant admitted that one tape was from another
airport  where  he  conducted  the  same  activity.  His  confiscated  videos  also  showed
evidence of taping inside of a mall and possibly a military department store.
Applicant  was  charged  and  found  guilty  at  trial  of  five  misdemeanor  counts  of
unlawful  videotaping.  Applicant  sought  counseling  and  treatment  during  the  pre-
sentencing  process,  and  his  attorney  requested  sentencing  be  deferred  pending
completion  of “mental  evaluations and  treatments.” (GE 4; Incident Data Sheet Report
pg.  10.)  Applicant  was  sentenced  on  March  20,  2007,  to  confinement  for  two-years,
suspended, with the charges dismissed pending successful completion of probation for
two years and no further incidents. (GE 9.)
Applicant testified to filming six to seven women during about 40 minutes at the
airport  in  which  he  was  flying  for  Government  business.  Applicant  admitted  to  filming
women at another airport after returning from his father-in-law’s funeral. He then admitted
to “possibly” traveling to an electronics store where he filmed additional women. Applicant
denied filming women at any other location, despite the evidence on the video recordings.
Applicant hid the tapes from his spouse, and “struggled” to keep them from her. Applicant
learned about up skirting from the internet, and investigators found 1,700 searches for
“up skirting” on his personal computer. Applicant testified that he last watched up-skirting
videos while on probation in 2007, and has not recorded additional videos since 2006.
In September 2006, Applicant’s security clearance was suspended. In June 2007,
Applicant attended an administrative Board of Inquiry to show cause as to why he should
be retained in the military. After a hearing, he was retained on active duty and his security
clearance  was  reinstated  in  2009.  In  Applicant’s  eligibility  determination  letter,  he  was
“cautioned that receipt of any derogatory information in the future, especially of a similar
nature, will be cause for reconsideration of your eligibility for a security clearance and/or
special access.” (GE 8.)
In  2008,  Applicant  was  directed  to  undergo  a  medical  evaluation  at  a  military
behavioral healthcare center. He was evaluated by a staff psychiatrist. (GE 6.) Applicant
attributed his behavior of filming up women’s skirts in September 2006 as a response to
stress  related  to  difficult  work,  not  being  promoted,  and  difficulties  with  a  child  with
physical disabilities. On the day he was caught, Applicant worried about being late for a
flight so he rescheduled for a later flight. As he sat at the airport “waiting and working,” he
was  overcome  with  worry  and  had   an  impulse  to  film  under   women’s  skirts  for   an
adrenaline rush. He filmed six to seven women for 40 minutes, but felt worse afterwards.
Applicant reported to the psychiatrist three incidents where he videotaped women
without their consent. He described the “most recent incident” as occurring in September
2006. He noted that prior to the September incident, he had “videotaped the private areas
of unknowing women in public.” He described that in August 2006, he was feeling guilty,
sad, and frustrated about having to return early from the funeral of his father-in-law due
to  work  requirements,  so  he  videotaped  unsuspecting  women  at  the  airport  for  an
“immediate  rush.”  That  day,  he  also  went  to  an  electronics  store  and  proceeded  to
videotape underneath women’s skirts at the store.
Applicant relayed to the psychiatrist that when he was approached by police at the
airport in September 2006, he was evasive in answering questions, but “was certain that
he  did  not  deny  having  videotaped  these  women.”  (GE  6.)  After  the  “last”  incident,
Applicant reported seeing a psychologist once a week or on alternating weeks for one
year, from 2006 to 2007. (GE 6.) Applicant participated in couples counseling, and was
involved with his church. (GE 6.)
The psychiatrist concluded that Applicant had been “experiencing  overwhelming
stressors that contributed to his having videotaped unsuspecting women underneath their
skirts.” She credited him with “voluntarily” seeking help and “underwent treatment for one
year under the care of a psychologist [which] suggests good insight into how inappropriate
his actions had been and that to seek mental health counseling to address this behavior
in order to prevent it showed good judgment.” She noted that “three episodes occurred
within the context of multiple stressors,” and “this makes the episodes appear to be more
circumscribed  and  as  a  response  to  stressors.”  Finally,  she  recommended  “regular
monitoring by a mental health specialist to ensure that he is addressing the stress in his
life productively and is aware of controlling  his impulses, especially under stress.”  The
psychiatrist made no DSM diagnosis or prognosis.
2017 Episode of Criminal Sexual Conduct
In  June  2017,  Applicant’s  daughter  was  playing  in  a  lacrosse  tournament  in
another city. Applicant and his family drove to the tournament to watch. At about 5pm the
same day of the tournament, a customer at a nearby department store reported  that a
man used his cell phone facing up in a red shopping basket to film up the skirt of women,
without their knowledge or consent. The store security officer interviewed the witness and
personally observed the man place a basket on the floor behind several women with the
camera facing up. The man then moved away to look at merchandise and returned to the
basket after the women left the spot. At one point, the man attempted to pull a women’s
skirt open to enhance the view.
The man was recorded by store security cameras and identified as he exited the
store. A close up, color photo of the man was submitted to local police, and distributed
via  an  online  crime  solvers  network.  The  photo  shows  a  man  that  clearly  resembles
Applicant, wearing a shirt bearing the name of a small college located in another state
from which Applicant’s son attended. As a result of the photo being displayed on social
media by the police, at least 100 friends, associates, and coworkers contacted Applicant
and his spouse and identified him as the person in the picture.
Applicant “does not recall” being at the store, but agreed that the picture “looks like
me.” The police also interviewed Applicant’s coworkers who clearly identified him as the
man in the photo. Applicant testified that he owns a similar shirt as that in the photo, but
his shirt adds the word “lacrosse” near the name of the school. He testified that he was
at his daughter’s lacrosse tournament that day, and although he owns a car similar to the
one described in the police report, he “would have” driven a minivan with his family. He
“does not believe” he ever left the tournament that day or visited the department store.
Applicant’s  spouse,  who  was  apparently  with  Applicant,  did  not  testify  or  otherwise
corroborate Applicant’s account, however Applicant stated that his spouse believes the
picture  was  of  him,  and  that  he  owns  a  shirt  as  shown  in  the  picture.  Applicant  was
arrested and charged in February 2018 with misdemeanor filming a nonconsented nude
person. The case was dismissed as nolle prosequi in April 2018. Applicant denied going
to the store or committing the offense.
Applicant was interviewed by Government security investigators in 2014 and 2018.
He admitted that the 2006 up-skirting videos were taken for an “adrenaline rush” and were
not harmful to anyone. In his 2018 interview, Applicant denied the 2017 incident photo
was of him, although it looked like him. He described the incident as a “coincidence.” He
stated that he was not attempting to victimize anyone in his 2006 up-skirting behavior. He
claimed  that  it  impacted  his  marriage,  but  had  no  impact  on  his  home,  school,  work,
friendships,  physical  or  emotional  health,  reputation,  judgment,  reliability,  finances,  or
ability to hold a security clearance. He said it was “an isolated incident,” but he knowingly
participated in the conduct. In testimony, he admitted his 2006 filming was harmful to his
victims, but denied telling the investigator that it was an isolated incident. He denied that
his 2006 behavior was a pattern, and said his involvement was “risk taking behavior” that
he no longer engaged in.
Applicant testified that he attended personal talk-therapy and marriage counseling
from  2006  to  2009.  This  is  contrary  to  the  one-year  counseling  he  told  the  military
psychiatrist in 2008. He claimed he left counseling in 2009 feeling “on top of his life.” No
counseling records from 2006 to 2009 were offered into evidence.
In August 2017, after being identified in the latest up-skirting incident,  Applicant
stated that he began talk therapy counseling and mediation to “get at the root cause” of
behavior, and to better communicate with his wife and children. He also sought help with
viewing pornography, and attends Sex Addicts Anonymous meetings from two to three
times  per  week,  or  up  to  five  times  per  week  on  occasions,  to  address  all  levels  of
inappropriate conduct. He is working on the 12-step program, and talks with his priest.
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant described his current counselor as a “certified
sex addiction therapist.” He stated that he has been attending counseling since August
2017; initially for marriage counseling but it evolved into individual counseling. Applicant
claims  his  counselor  diagnosed  him  with  “general  anxiety  disorder.”  No  medical  or
counseling  record  were  offered  into  evidence  by  Applicant  to  support  any  diagnosis.
Applicant stated he was referred to Sex Addicts Anonymous with the primary purpose to
stop addictive sexual behavior through the 12-step program, and to help others recover
from sexual addiction. He has attended two weekend retreats and has a sponsor. (Ans.)
Applicant’s  counselor  testified  at  the  hearing.  The  counselor  stated  that  he  is  a
licensed  clinical  professional  counselor  (LCPC),  with  a  master’s  degree  in  pastoral
counseling awarded in in 2013, and an undergraduate degree in biology. No Curriculum
Vitae  was  provided  showing  the  counselor’s  education,  expertise,  or  qualifications.  He
has worked as a counselor since 2013, and Applicant began seeing him in August 2017.
He  sees  Applicant  for  “general  counseling,”  once  per  week.  Applicant’s  spouse  was
included in one session, despite efforts to invite her for marriage counseling. He testified
that at times Applicant attends group counseling, and “may be”  involved in group sex-
addiction counseling. The counselor refused to disclose details of Applicant’s admissions
or treatment, other than to say he is counseling him for “trauma anxiety for life issues and
incidents.”  The  counselor  believes  that  there  is  no  need  for  continued  therapy  as
Applicant  has  a  deepening  understanding  of  others,  and  more  compassion  and
understanding with his spouse. He believes Applicant is truthful, has grown in maturity
and ability to connect with others, and he has no concerns regarding Applicant’s future
behavior and ability to protect sensitive information.
Applicant’s  supervisor
testified  about  Applicant’s  work  and  exceptional
performance ratings over the past two years. The witness was not aware of the security
concerns  alleged  in  the  SOR,  or  the  2006  and  2017  up-skirting  incidents.  Applicant
testified that the 2006 incidents resulted from depression, and that his up-skirting behavior
was  not  about  sex,  rather  it  was  about  participating  in  “risky  behavior.”  He  expressed
remorse  and  shame  for  the  behavior  to  which  he  admitted.  He  continues  to  attend
counseling and is involved in church activities. However, he also continues to deny his
presence at or participation in the 2017 up-skirting incident.
