Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  production  control  planner  for  a  defense  contractor
who  seeks  continuation  of  her  security  clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  August  2003  and  has  one  adult  child  from  this  marriage.
(Item  3)  She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  1983  and  reported  no  higher  education
credits or military service. (Item 3)
Since August 1989, Applicant  has been employed by her current  employer.  (Item
3) She has possessed a security clearance  since approximately 1996.  (Item 3)
Applicant’s finances
Between February 2012 and October 2018, Applicant accumulated 44 delinquent
consumer-related debts exceeding $35,000 in the aggregate. (Items 4-7) Despite being
fully employed, she has not addressed any of her listed delinquent accounts. (Items 4-7)
When asked about her financial problems in her interview with an investigator from the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  August  2018,  she  attributed  her  payment
lapses  to  being  “young  and  stupid.”  (Item  4)  She  further  explained  to  the  OPM
investigator that she did not have enough money to pay of her debts and “had lost track
of all of the different accounts she had.” (Item 4)
To  address  her  debt  delinquencies,  Applicant  contacted  a  debt  consolidation
service.  (Item  4)  She  could  provide  no  contact  information,  however,  for  the  service
provider  or  its  successor.  Nor  did  she  furnish  any  documentation  of  her  counseling
initiatives with this service. She claimed she set up a payment plan with the original debt
consolidation  service  that  called  for  monthly  payments  of  $400,  subject  to  additional
fees for delinquent accounts. (Item 4) Offered an opportunity by the OPM investigator to
provide additional information about her delinquent accounts and her payment progress
with the debt consolidation service and its successor, Applicant failed to do so.
Applicant’s drug activities
Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  (roughly  twice  a  year)  from
approximately  1980  to  approximately  2015.  (Item  4)  Between  approximately  2010  and
approximately 2015, she used marijuana with varying frequency while holding a security
clearance.  (Item  4)  She  estimated  to  have  used  marijuana  between  2010  and  2015
approximately 10 times, mostly at parties, concerts, and with others in social gatherings.
She has received no counseling or treatment for drug abuse.
Since  2015,  Applicant  has  not  used  marijuana.  Nor  has  she  socialized  or
associated with persons that use marijuana or any other illegal drugs since 2015. (Item
4) Applicant assured she will not use marijuana or any other illegal drugs in the future
because she does not want to “jeopardize her career.” (Item 4)
The  administrative  record  does  not  include  any  documentation  to  challenge
Applicant’/s  post-2015  drug-free  assurances.  Considering  all  of  the  circumstances
surrounding  Applicant’s  past  history  of  marijuana  use,  her  assurances  that  she  has
remained drug-free since her last use in 2015 are accepted.
