Applicant,   43,  has  worked  for   his  current  employer,   a  federal  contracting
company  since  April  2018.   He   completed  a  security   clearance  application,  his  first,  in
May 2018, disclosing derogatory information about his  criminal  history and  past use of
illegal drugs.  The ensuing investigation revealed  that Applicant  has been arrested nine
times   between  2007  and  2019;   that  he  attended   a   court-ordered   substance-abuse
program   in   April  2018;  and   that  he   is   currently  on  unsupervised  probation  until   April
2021.  The  investigation  also  revealed   that  he   continued  using  illegal  drugs   after
completing   his  2017   security  clearance  application   and   while  participating  in   a
substance-abuse program.
Criminal History
Assault Arrests
Applicant was charged with assault twice in July 2011. On the first occasion, he
was  charged  with  first-degree  assault  after  an  altercation  with  the  tenant  renting  his
basement. (SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 5.a) The charge was not prosecuted. Days later, Applicant was
arrested  and  charged  with  second-degree  assault  (SOR  ¶1.h,  5.a).  The  details  of  the
incident are unclear from the record, but he was convicted and sentenced to probation
before judgment for one year. (Tr. 64-65; GE 2, 9, 11, 67)
The SOR also alleges two arrests stemming from Applicant’s interactions with his
ex-wife, to whom he was married from 2007 to 2011. Applicant maintains contact  with
her  because  they  share  custody of  their  two  minor  children.  Applicant  was  arrested  in
August  2011,  and  charged  with  assault  on  a  family  member  (SOR  ¶¶  1.e,  5.a).
According to the police report, Applicant punched his ex-wife on the forehead during an
altercation  between  him,  his  ex-wife,  and  his  then  girlfriend,  who  is  the  mother  of
Applicant’s third child. The fight occurred when Applicant picked up the children from his
ex-wife’s home for his scheduled visitation. Applicant testified that the police report was
incorrect.  According  to  Applicant,  his  girlfriend  admitted  to  the  responding  officers  that
she  assaulted  Applicant’s  ex-wife.  Applicant  maintains  that  the  police  officer  chose
instead  to  believe  his  ex-wife’s  accusations  against  him,  which  were  corroborated  by
her  parents  who  witnessed  the  altercation.  Applicant  entered  an  Alford  plea  on  the
assault  charge;  however,  his  sentence  is  unclear  from  the  record.  Applicant’s  ex-wife
obtained  a  protective  order  in  September  2011,  requiring  him  to  stay  a  minimum  of
5,000  feet  away  from  her  and  prohibiting  him  from  having  any  contact  with  her.  The
court  also  ordered  the  couple  to  execute  visitation  through  a  supervised  exchange
program. (Tr. 61-64; GE8)
Protective Order Violation
In  January  2015,  Applicant   contacted  his  ex-wife   by  telephone   and  texts
regarding  their children, in  contravention of the protective  order.  Applicant  claims he did
not  call   his   ex-wife,   but  that  their  son used  Applicant’s   phone to   call   her.  (SOR ¶¶1.d,
5.a) The  court determined that Applicant  violated the protective order and  extended it to
March  2017.   Applicant   described  his  relationship  with  his  ex-wife  as  contentious.  He
testified  that  she  tried,  without  success,  to   have   the  protection  order  extended  on  at
least four other occasions.  (Tr.58-61; GE 7)
Theft Arrest
In  October  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  theft  after  failing  to
pay  for  an  item  in  his  shopping  cart  at  a  hardware  store.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.c.  5.a)  In  his
response to the SOR and during his statements  at the hearing, Applicant claimed that
his failure to pay for the item was an oversight. However, in the September 2018 subject
interview, Applicant told the investigator that he intentionally hid the item in his shopping
cart to avoid paying for it. Applicant adopted the contents of the subject interview in his
September  2019  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  Although  Applicant  made  some
corrections  to  the  subject  interview  summary,  he  did  not  make  any  corrections  to  the
paragraph recounting the incidents of the October 2016 arrest. Applicant pleaded guilty
to theft less than $100. (Tr.57-58; Answer; GE 1-2, 6)
Alcohol and Drug Related Arrests
Between 2007 and 2018, Applicant was arrested three times for conduct related
to alcohol or illegal drug use. In June 2007, Applicant was charged with having an open
container  of  alcohol  in  a  parking  lot  where  he  was  socializing  with  his  friends.  The
charge  was  not  prosecuted.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.g,  3.c,  5.a)  In  August  2017,  Applicant  was
charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  on  cocaine,  after  he  fell  asleep  while
driving and hit a street sign.  (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.b, 5.a). At the hearing, Applicant stated that
the night of the accident, he took Xanax, not cocaine. Although Applicant admits that the
blood test administered after the accident tested positive for cocaine, he maintains that
he used the drug the weekend before the accident, which occurred on a Sunday. The
court  found  Applicant  guilty  of  DWI  –  first  offense.  The  court  restricted  Applicant’s
driving privileges for 12 months, ordered him to attend a substance-abuse program, and
required  the  installation  an  interlock  device  on  his  vehicle.  The  court  also  placed
Applicant on unsupervised probation for three years to end in April 2021. (Tr. 53-57, 66,
84-85; GE 1, 2, 5, 10; AE B-C)
Fifteen  months  later,  Applicant  was  cited  for  DWI  - alcohol  while  transporting  a
minor,  his  daughter,  and  exceeding  the  speed  limit.  (SOR  ¶  1.a,  3.a,  5.a)  The  traffic
stop occurred at 1:30 a.m. At the hearing, Applicant explained that the night before he
was  stopped,  he  consumed  alcohol  at  a  friend’s  home.  He  took  a  nap  before  driving
home with his daughter and girlfriend, the child’s mother. Applicant explained that while
he slept, his girlfriend continued to drink. Applicant believed that the alcohol the officer
smelled  in  the  vehicle  emanated  from  his  girlfriend  and  not  him.  Applicant  passed  the
field sobriety tests, but refused to take a breathalyzer test. The court found Applicant not
guilty  on  the  DWI-alcohol  charge  and  dismissed  the  related  charge  regarding  the
transportation of a minor while impaired. The court convicted Applicant of speeding for
driving 81 miles per hour (mph) in a 55 mph zone. (Tr. 46-51; GE3; Answer)
Traffic Violations
Applicant’s  most recent criminal  charges occurred in  2019. In January 2019, he
was charged with speeding for driving nine miles over the speed limit (SOR ¶¶ 1.i., 5.a)
He  pleaded  guilty  and  was  sentenced  to  unsupervised  probation  before  judgment,
which ended in April 2020. In May 2019, while he was still on probation, Applicant was
again cited for speeding nine miles over the speed limit. (SOR ¶¶ 1.j, 5.a) He pleaded
guilty  and  was  sentenced  to  one-year  of  unsupervised  probation  before  judgment  that
ended in July 2020. (Tr. 72-73; GE 12-13)
Alcohol and Substance Abuse  History
During  the  background  investigation  and  at  hearing,  Applicant  discussed  his
history of alcohol and illegal drug use. During his twenties, Applicant consumed alcohol
five times per week. Although he drank heavily, his drinking did not adversely impact his
life.  During  his  marriage  from  2007  to  2011,  Applicant  testified  that  his  alcohol
consumption decreased to three nights per week, but that he was regularly drinking to
intoxication.  He  testified  that  his  drinking  habits  changed  significantly  after  the  2017
DWI. He now consumes alcohol on average twice per month. (Tr. 89-95)
Applicant reported that he first used cocaine in January 2000. He purchased the
drug from an acquaintance and used it recreationally without issue until his August 2017
car  accident  and  resulting  DWI  conviction.  As  a  result  of  his  arrest  and  subsequent
detainment,  Applicant  failed  to  report  to  work  and  lost  his  job.  Applicant  explained
during his July 2018 subject interview that his cocaine use adversely effected his ability
to  sleep  and  interfered  with  his  ability  to  take  care  of  his  family.  Applicant  reported
during  his  subject  interview  and  in  his  September  2019  response  to  DOHA
interrogatories that he last used cocaine in August 2017. In both statements, Applicant
stated  that  he  had  no  intention  of  using  the  drug  in  the  future  because  doing  so  was
incompatible with his personal and professional responsibilities. (Tr. 37-38, 85; GE 1-2,
5)
As  part  of  his  sentence  for   the  2017  DWI  conviction,   Applicant   was  ordered  to
participate in  a substance-abuse program, which  he did  from April to September 2018.
At each  session, Applicant submitted to urinalysis. According  to the program  provider’s
report, Applicant  tested positive for alcohol  in  July 2018. (SOR  ¶ 3.b) Five weeks later,
in   August  2018,  more than 12  weeks into   the  program,  he tested positive   for   cocaine.
(SOR  ¶  2.c)   Applicant  admitted  that  he  continued  to  use  alcohol  even  though  he  was
ordered by the  court to  abstain. He  denied using cocaine during the program, testifying
that the counselor  alerted  him  to the positive  urinalysis result,  but told  Applicant that the
result  was  inconclusive.   The   treatment  record  does  not  support   this  statement,  but  it
does  not  appear  that  Applicant   experienced   any  repercussions  from  the  court  for  the
positive  urinalysis  results.  According   to  the   treatment  record,   Applicant   completed  the
20-hour substance abuse program as  required, participating in  15 group sessions, and
5   individual  counseling  session.  The   treatment  notes  do  not  contain  a  diagnosis  or  a
prognosis. Applicant does not participate in  any sobriety management program. (Tr.  38-
39, 73; Answer)
Despite the program notes establishing that Applicant tested positive for cocaine
use in August 2018, he maintains that he has not used cocaine since his DWI arrest in
August 2017. He believes that he accurately reported his illegal drug use on his security
clearance  application  and  in  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  When  asked  why  he
admitted the amended SOR ¶ 2.a that he used cocaine from 2007 until August 2018, he
testified  that  he  did  so  on  the  advice  of  counsel.  (SOR  ¶  5.b)  (Tr.  38-39,  73;  GE  2;
Answer)
Applicant  testified  that  his  difficult  past  is  behind  him.  He  has  developed  better
and less contentious relationships with his children’s  mothers. Applicant also attributed
his  lifestyle  change  to  moving  to  another  town.  He  began  attending  church  in
September  2018  and  is  now  in  a  relationship  with  another  parishioner.  Most  of  his
friends are people he met through church. When he is not working, Applicant spends his
free time with his daughter, age eight, of whom he shares custody. He also spends time
exercising  and  participating  in  church  activities.  Applicant’s  current  girlfriend  describes
him  as  the  “most  responsible  person  she  knows.”  Applicant’s  supervisor  described
Applicant  as  trustworthy  and  reliable.  Both  recommended  Applicant  for  eligibility  for
access to classified information. (Tr. 18-30, 33-35, 43-45, 95-96, 98-103)
