Applicant,  through  counsel,  admitted  the  sole  allegation  alleged  under  SOR  ¶
1.a,  with  explanations.  (SOR  Answer)  His  admission  is  incorporated  or  adopted  as  a
finding of fact. Additional findings of fact follow.
Background Information
Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  senior  acquisition  specialist   two   employed  by  a
defense contractor since October 2017. (GE  1; Tr.  11-13) He  is a first-time applicant  for
a secret  security clearance. Obtaining a clearance would enhance  his employability  and
upward mobility  within  his company.  (GE 1; Tr. 13-14, 18, 52-53)
Applicant  received   his   high  school   diploma  in   1986.  He   was  awarded  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  international   business  in   2006,   and   was  awarded   a  master’s
degree in   system  engineering in 2011.  (GE 1;  Tr.  14-15)  Applicant  married in  January
1997, and  has an adult son and  an adult daughter;  both are currently attending college
and  live at home. Applicant’s wife  is a  homemaker and  assists the elderly on a part-time
volunteer basis through their local church.  (GE 1; Tr. 16-18, 58-59)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
SOR  ¶  1.a   alleged   that  Applicant   used  marijuana/THC  with  varying  frequency
from   1980  to  at  least  April  2019.  (SOR)   Applicant  was  introduced  to  marijuana  as  a
teenager  while  growing  up  in   a  large  metropolitan  area  on  the  East  Coast.   Marijuana
was  readily  available   in   Applicant’s  neighborhood  and  “was  part  of  the  community  or
environment.” Applicant’s marijuana  usage  transitioned from  teenage  peer pressure to  a
coping mechanism to deal with an anxiety disorder. To cope with  his anxiety disorder,
Applicant estimated that he used  marijuana “about two or three times a  week” during a
40-year span. (Tr. 19-23, 45, 61)
Applicant did not seek professional help to deal with his anxiety disorder until his
early  30s  in  the  1995  to  1996  timeframe.  His  doctor  at  the  time  prescribed  Klonopin,
which  was  prescribed  to  him  to  alleviate  the  “heavy  brain  activity  [he]  experienced,
which  overwhelmed  [his]  thought  process  and  created  the  physiological  changes  that
were  very  uncomfortable  to  deal  with  and  manage  through  this  anxiety  disorder.”  (Tr.
23-24,  34,  67-68)  Over  time,  Applicant  learned  that  Klonopin  had  some  undesirable
long-term side effects such as dementia or Alzheimer’s disease and proved to be more
addictive  than  marijuana.  In  consultation  with  his  doctor,  he  reduced  his  Klonopin
dosage.  For  example,  Applicant’s  prescription  indicated  a  consumption  rate  of  two
tablets  a  day;  however,  he  took  Klonopin  on  average  two  days  a  week.  His  usage
depended on work demands such as making a presentation. Applicant stated Klonopin
physiologically reduces brain activity and allows him to breath. By doing so, he is able to
formulate better  planning. Marijuana had  “very similar effects  in  some form or  fashion.”
When  Applicant  used  marijuana,  he   did  so  by  smoking  it   during  the  evenings  in   the
privacy  of  his  home.  No   one   in  Applicant’s  immediate  family  uses  marijuana.  After
marijuana was legalized in  his state of residence, he obtained  a marijuana card in  about
2011  and  purchased  marijuana  at  state-sanctioned  dispensaries.  Before  that,   he
obtained  marijuana from individuals with similar needs. (Tr. 24-26, 34-42, 44, 59-63, 65,
69)
Overcoming Applicant’s  anxiety  disorder  was  a process  that occurred over time
and involved shifting from prescription drugs or marijuana to a faith-based platform. He
became involved with his church and its men’s  bible study group. Applicant explained,
“So,  I  made  a  promise  to  my  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  communicated  to  him  that  I
wanted  to  get  away  from  these  artificial  medications  and  work  and  build  an
infrastructure that would help me with his grace, mercy and love on my life, to help me
establish something better than I had tried to establish.” He found his bible study peers
to  be  excellent  role  models,  role  models  he  never  had  growing  up.  (Tr.  27-28)  In
addition  to  his  men’s  bible  study  group,  Applicant  is  involved  in  other  aspects  of  his
church’s ministry such as hospitality and ushering, and feeding and providing clothing to
the  homeless.  He  also  assists  with  a  local  community  project  rebuilding  schools  and
provides assistance where needed. (Tr. 27-29)
Applicant  made  his  commitment  to  stop  using  marijuana  and  become  sober  on
April 21, 2019, Easter Sunday. He stated:
I made a deep, deep commitment to my Father in heaven that I was going
to  pursue  this  [with]  even  more  diligence;  with  more  firmer  [resolve],  you
know, that I was serious and that I needed His help and I needed Him to
guide me, to provide me with the wisdom to interface me with the people
that I needed to build this infrastructure that, in my mind, was to alleviate
me from having to medicate with these medications. (Tr. 29-30, 45-46, 59)
In  addition  to  a  faith-based  platform,  Applicant  pursues  a  regimen  of  good
nutrition and exercise. He has been seeing a forensic psychologist on a frequent basis
since  June  2020,  and  remains  open  to  seeking  help,  as  needed.  His  psychologist
prepared  an  extensive  substance  abuse  evaluation,  discussed  below.  Applicant  also
attended  Narcotics  Anonymous  in  August  or  September  2020,  it  is  now  almost  two
years after he stopped using marijuana. He did so to reinforce his infrastructure to stay
on  a  path  of  sobriety.  (Tr.  30-31,  42-52)  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  can  be
trusted  to  no  longer  use  marijuana.  He  referred  to  his  proven  career  track  record  of
dependability  and  reliability  with  his  colleagues  and  client  customers.  He  has  always
given  them  advice  and  service  to  the  best of  his  ability.  Applicant  is very  proud  of  the
service he provides to the country and hopes to continue that service. In short, he wants
to  leave a legacy that  he did what  he needed to  do for  his  family,  friends,  colleagues,
and society. (Tr. 31-33)
Applicant completed his security clearance application on October 30, 2017, after
he  began  his  employment  with  his  current  company.  He  disclosed  his  past  marijuana
use  on  that  application.  When  he  applied  for  a  position  with  his  current  employer,  the
requirement  to  have  a  security  clearance  was  not  clear.  Applicant  had  no  experience
with the security clearance process during his previous 25-plus years in the aerospace
industry.  (Tr.  53-55)  During  Applicant’s  November  20,  2018,  Office  of  Personnel
Management Personal Subject Interview (OPM PSI), he informed the investigator of his
marijuana  use  up  until  the  time  of  his  OPM  PSI.  His  use  of  marijuana  continued  for
about six months after that interview. Applicant stated this marijuana use was on an “as
needed” basis, that he was not dependent on marijuana, and  that its use was a “more
natural way to medicate.” (Tr. 55-56; GE 2)
When  Applicant  realized  that  using  marijuana  was  incompatible  with  holding  a
security  clearance,  he  realized  “marijuana  had   to   go.”  (Tr.   40)  Applicant’s   OPM   PSI
definitely  had  an  impact  on  him.   With   coordinated   treatment  from  his  health  care
professionals as well  as support  received  from his faith-based men’s bible  study group,
Applicant  was able to bridge the gap  that marijuana provided  in dealing with his anxiety
disorder. (Tr. 56-57)
Applicant  does  not  associate  with  anyone  who  uses  marijuana.  Applicant
understands  that  any  use  of  illegal  drugs   is  not  tolerated  at  his  workplace   or  while
holding  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  63-64)   This  is  the   first  time  in   Applicant’s  working
career that he encountered a zero  tolerance drug-free policy as it applies to the security
clearance  process. (Tr. 70)  Applicant submitted three negative drug tests  dated October
7, 2020;  September 11, 2020;  and August 21, 2019. (Tr. 70-71; AE A, AE B, AE C)
Of  particular  note  is  a  comprehensive  Substance  Abuse  Evaluation  dated
November  9,  2020  that  Applicant  submitted.  The  report  was  prepared  by  a  very  well
credentialed forensic psychologist (Ph.D.), who has significant experience in evaluating
security  clearance  applicants  under  the  auspices  of  the  CIA,  NSA,  and  DOD.  Ph.D.
diagnosed Applicant with a Social Anxiety Disorder (DSM-5 300.23). Ph.D. did not give
Applicant  a  diagnosis  of  Cannabis  Use  Disorder.  He  explained  that  Applicant  did  not
meet any of the 11 criteria for a substance use disorder, and added that Applicant “used
cannabis  as  an  alternative  to  the  benzodiazepine  prescription  he  received  for  his
anxiety  disorder  for  many  years.”  Ph.D.  stated,  “To  a  great  degree  of  psychological
certainty, I have concluded that [Applicant] is free from any problems of drug or alcohol
use and pose[s] no risk to the national security as a result of his prior usage.” (Tr. 71-72;
AE D)
In  addition  to  Ph.D.’s  Substance  Abuse  Evaluation,  Applicant  submitted  a  letter
from  his  licensed  marriage  and  family  therapist  (LMFT)  dated  November  11,  2020.
LMFT stated Applicant has been under her care since June 28, 2020, with a diagnosis
of  Anxiety  Disorder  (F41.9)  in  order  to  increase  his  coping  and  to  get  support  for  his
sobriety  from  cannabis.  She  noted  that  Applicant  has  shown  high  motivation,  insight,
and  dependability  in  a  consistent  manner.  (Tr.  72-73;  AE  E)  Applicant  submitted  a
signed, sworn statement of intent, dated October 23, 2020, to avoid any future drug use
or other illegal use of drugs both presently and in the future, with the understanding that
any drug violation will result in the automatic revocation of clearance. (AE F) Applicant
submitted  a  gym  membership  contract  dated  February  11,  2020,  further  documenting
his commitment to engage in a healthy lifestyle. (AE H)
Character Evidence
Applicant submitted a character letter dated November 10, 2020, from one of his
colleagues  from  his  men’s  bible  study  group.  Applicant  described  him  as  a  “mentor  in
the  Christian  faith.”  This  individual  has  known  Applicant  for  at  least  ten  years.  He
described  Applicant  as  “a  diligent  worker,  constant  learner,  and  man  of  integrity.”  He
described  Applicant’s  volunteer  work  at  their  church,  school,  and  community.  (Tr.  73;
AE  G)  Lastly,  Applicant  submitted  his  most  recent  work  performance  review  effective
June  30,  2020,  with  a  rating  “Exceeds  Expectations.”  The  narrative  of  his  evaluation
documents the justification for achieving such a rating. (Tr. 74; AE I)
