Applicant is 28 years old.  He has two Bachelor’s degrees.  He is employed by a
defense  contractor  as  a  Manufacturing  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.  Applicant has no military service.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  admits  the  single  allegation  under  this  guideline.  He  has  used
marijuana  off  and  on  for  seven  years  from  approximately  April  2011  to  approximately
November 2018.  Applicant began using marijuana sporadically in college, at first about
once every  four or five months or  so.  (Tr. p. 27)  From  2015  until mid-2016,  he used
marijuana  weekly.  By  2016,  toward  the  end  of  college,  he  was  using  it  on  a  monthly
basis.  He did not use it again until March 2017 when he used it on a weekly basis until
November 2018 when he stopped.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
In  March  2017,  Applicant  was  hired  by   his  current  employer  as  a  Facilities
Engineer.     At  that  time,   Applicant   was  given  a  company  handbook  that  set  forth   the
rules  and   regulations   prohibiting  illegal  drug   use.     Applicant  also  understood  that   all
employees   were  subject  to  random  drug  testing.    Despite  receiving  this  information,
Applicant  continued  to  use  marijuana  from  March  2017  until   November   2018.     He
testified that he used  marijuana  to relax  and  for recreation  because he enjoyed it.  (Tr.
p. 22.)   He  also described  an ankle surgery he had  in  August 2017 where he obtained  a
medical   marijuana  card  in   order  to  purchase   it.    He   contends  that  he  purchased
marijuana  legally  from  marijuana  dispensaries.     He   normally  used  marijuana  at  his
residence  with  apartment   mates  while  playing  video   games.     (Tr.   p.  23.)     Applicant
testified  that he  continues  to associate with his friends who  use marijuana.  (Tr.  p. 24.)
He   currently   lives  with  his  best  friend   who   uses  marijuana   in   their  apartment  several
times a week.  When other friends come over to Applicant’s home,  they use marijuana
with  Applicant’s  roommate  in   Applicant’s  presence.    (Tr.   p.  26.)    Applicant  has  never
asked his friends or his roommate to avoid using marijuana in  his presence.  Applicant
last used marijuana in November 2018.   (Tr. p. 24.)
In  December  2017,  due  to  company  lay-offs,  Applicant  was  transferred  to  his
current position.  In April 2018, he learned that the new position would require a security
In  May  2018,  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application.
clearance.
(Government  Exhibit  1.)
In  response  to  Section  23  of  the  application,  Applicant  was
asked if in the last seven years he had used any illegal drugs or controlled substance?
In  response  to  Section  23,  Applicant  responded,  “Yes.”  (Government  Exhibit  1.)  On
page  35  of  the  same  questionnaire,  Applicant  explained  that  he  intends  to  use
marijuana  in  the  future  because  it  is  now  legal  in  the  state  where  he  resides.
(Government Exhibit 1.)
In November 2018, Applicant met with an OPM investigator and was asked about
his  future  intent  to  use  marijuana.  Applicant  initially  told  the  investigator  that  he
intended to continue using and purchasing marijuana in the future.  (Government Exhibit
2.)  Applicant  stated  that  he  changed  his  intent  during  the  interview  when  the
investigator told him that although marijuana use is legal in his state, it remains illegal
under  Federal  law.  Applicant  testified  that  he  now  has  no  intent  to  use  or  purchase
marijuana in the future due to the fact that his job requires a federal security clearance.
(Tr. p. 22.)
