Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise  indicated  by  a  parenthetical
citation  to  the  record.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  including  Applicant’s  admissions  in  his
Answer,  his  testimony,  and  the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  35  years  old  and  married  in  2016.  He  and  his  wife  have  no  children.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  of
science degree in 2011. He is currently enrolled in a master’s program, which  is scheduled to finish in the fall of 2022.
He and a friend co-founded a business that serves as a subcontractor for a U.S. Government contractor. (Tr. at 11-14.)
Following  Applicant’s  graduation  in  2011,  his  employer  at  the  time  sponsored  him  to  apply  for  a  security
clearance. He was granted an interim secret clearance while his application was pending. The DoD CAF required that
Applicant  provide  written  answers  and  documents  in  response  to  interrogatories  relating  to  his  past  treatment  for
mental-health disorders. Applicant failed to respond to the interrogatories in a timely manner. The DoD CAF revoked
his interim clearance and terminated the processing of his application. (Tr. at 15-17.)
June
2019
Mental
Health Evaluation
In May 2016, Applicant reapplied for a clearance. In March 2019, the DoD CAF requested that Applicant voluntarily
participate in an independent psychological
evaluation. He agreed to do so, and on June 20, 2019, a licensed clinical psychologist
(the LCP) conducted an evaluation. The next day, she prepared a nine-page summary of
her  psychological  evaluation  (June  2019  Report)  and  attached  her  eight-page  CV,  to
establish her credentials.
The LCP concluded that Applicant’s diagnostic profile is the following: “Bipolar II
Disorder,  Generalized  Anxiety  Disorder,  Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity  Disorder
(predominantly inattentive type), Alcohol Use Disorder (in sustained remission), Cannabis
Use  Disorder  (in  sustained  remission),  and  Nonadherence  to  Medical  Treatment  (by
history).” She noted that he continues to experience anxiety daily. She wrote that “the risk
of  future  mood  disturbance  seems  moderate”  and  that  “it  can  be  mitigated  through
treatment compliance” and other ongoing efforts. She concluded, however, that:
trustworthiness  concerning  classified
[Applicant]  currently  presents  with  several  conditions  and  a  behavioral
health history that could pose a significant risk to his judgment, reliability
information.  Although
and/or
[Applicant]
judgment   under  most
circumstances,”  he  continues  to  struggle  with   behavioral  and  emotional
regulation  on  a  daily  basis.  Furthermore,  questionable
treatment
compliance points to a guarded prognosis.
reported  having
good
“very
SOR Allegations
The SOR contains the following three allegations:
1.a.  Mental-health  treatment  in  2004  at  an  addiction  and  recovery  facility.
Applicant was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder and Attention Deficit Disorder. SOR ¶ 1.a
also alleges that he missed appointments and failed to follow his treatment plan.
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  denies  that  this  allegation  is  factually  correct.  He  was
treated for substance abuse at the identified facility in 2004 when he was 19 years old.
He claims he was never diagnosed with any mental disorders during his treatment for
addiction. (Answer at 3-4.)
Applicant  testified  at  the  hearing  that  at  that  time,  he  was  self-medicating  his
depression and anxiety with marijuana and alcohol. His father encouraged him to seek
help,  and  Applicant  attended  12  weekly group  sessions  on  an  out-patient  basis at  the
addiction recovery facility identified in the SOR. Applicant also received medication. The
facility did not provide mental-health services and provided no diagnosis of his mental-
health condition. He clarified that when he was 18 he was hospitalized for two weeks and
received a formal mental-health diagnosis of Bipolar II Disorder. (See discussion under
SOR ¶ 1.b, below.) At that time, he was also suffering from a serious problem with suicidal
ideation. A few years earlier, when he was 14 or 15, he was diagnosed with depression.
Applicant has established that this allegation in the SOR identified the wrong facility, but
is otherwise correct. (Tr. at 22-24, 45, 54-55, 64, 75.)
Applicant  admitted  that  after  his  substance-abuse  treatment,  he  did  not  fully comply with his
mental health treatment plan, which was established in the earlier 2003 to 2004 period. In January 2005,
he  ceased  all  treatment  and  medication.  At  the  time  of  his  2019  Government-requested  psychological
evaluation  and  at  the  hearing,  Applicant  attributed  his  decision  to  a  number  of  factors,  but  primarily  to  a
lack  of  maturity.  He  did  not  understand  the  importance  of  his  treatment  and  the  positive  impact  that
treatment had on his life. (Tr. at 22-24, 56-57; GE 2 at 4.)
1.b.  Treatment  at  a  mental-health  facility  from  December  2003  to  January  2005. A licensed
social  worker  diagnosed  Applicant  as  suffering  from  Bipolar  II  Disorder  and  Chronic  Mood  Disorder.  In
January 2005, he stopped his treatment and refused any further treatment.
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  this  allegation  based  upon  the  same  facts discussed above.
He attributed his failure to adhere to treatment recommendations to his lack of maturity at a time when he
was  18-20  years  old.  He  provided  additional  reasons  for  his  behavior.  Initially,  he  was  pressured  to
relocate to the native country of his then-girlfriend. He moved with her and lived there for about one year.
He  returned  to  the  United  States  and  attended  college.  He  wrote  that  he  could  not  study  while  being
medicated for anxiety. He ultimately graduated from college in 2011. His first job required that he apply for
a  security  clearance.  As  noted  above,  he  failed  to   respond   to   the   Government’s  interrogatories
during  the  processing  of  his  earlier  security  clearance  application.  He  “deferred”  his  mental  health
needs until May  2019, a  period  of  14  years since he stopped treatment in 2005. He is now committed to
living a life that prioritizes the treatment of his mental-health disorders. (Answer at 4-6.)
Applicant’s   testimony  at  the  hearing  provided  additional  details  about  this  period  of  his  life.  He
reported that when he was 18 he was hospitalized for two weeks and was given  his  first  diagnosis  by  a
mental-health  professional.  He  did  not  take  his  treatment plan seriously and failed to take his medication
as required. While living abroad, he had no  health  care.  He  experienced  severe  anxiety  and  emotional
swings  associated  with Bipolar  Disorder.  He  took  no  medication  during  the  14-year  period  from  2005  to
2019, with the brief exception of taking tranquilizer medication during part of his college years. When he
first  applied  for  a  security  clearance,  he  was  experiencing  severe  anxiety  and  depression.  He  attributed
his  failure  to  respond  to  the  Government’s  interrogatories  in 2013 to his mental-health condition at that
time. (Tr. at 20-22, 25-34, 57-58.)
1.c.  June  2019  psychological  evaluation.  The  LCP  diagnosed  Applicant  as  described above,
and  gave  him  a  guarded  prognosis  due  to  his  history  of  failing  to  comply  with  necessary  treatment  for
years  prior  to  2019.  She  also  concluded  that  Applicant’s   mental-health  conditions  and  his  behavioral
history   “could  pose   a  significant   risk  to   his  judgment,   reliability   and/or   trustworthiness  concerning
classified  information.”
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted
that  at
the
time  of  his  2019  evaluation,  he  had
just “recommenced” his treatment and medications three weeks earlier. He does
not
dispute the LCP’s evaluation of him at that point in time, nor does he dispute that there is historical evidence of non-
compliance.
At the hearing, Applicant described in detail his current medication treatment and his  ongoing  compliance.
He  also  explained  his  involvement  in  his  group-counseling therapy.  He  provided more historical detail about his
mental-health  conditions.  He  was ultimately  diagnosed  by  a  licensed  social  worker  with  Bipolar  II  Disorder  and
Chronic Mood Disorder in 2003. During the years 2005 through 2019, Applicant elected to forego any counseling or
medication  to  address  his  mental-health  disorders.  He  acknowledged  that,  even  after  submitting  his  SCA  in  May
2016,  he  was  still  in  denial  about  his  need  for  mental-health  treatment.  After  the  DoD  CAF’s  request  for  a
psychological evaluation in March 2019, Applicant decided to seek mental-health treatment again. He testified that
this decision was made before his June 2019 psychological evaluation. In her June 2019 Report, the LCP noted that
Applicant  had  only  seen  his  new  therapist  once  and  could  not  recall  the  therapist’s  name  or  the  medication
therapist.  Applicant  emphasized  at  the  hearing  that  his  decision  to  begin  mental-health
prescribed  by
treatment  three  years  after  his  submission  of  his  second  SCA  was  based  upon  his  desire  to  address  his
condition. (Tr. at 20-22, 35, 62-63; GE 2 at 4; GE 4.)
the
Applicant  began  seeing  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker  in  May  2019.  The  last session  with  that  therapist
was  in  the  first  part  of  2020,  before  the  Covid-19  pandemic  began.  He  only  attended  four  sessions  with  her.
Starting in November 2019, he has been under the care of a psychiatrist, who monitors his medication. Over time,
Applicant has scheduled appointments with his psychiatrist less and less frequently. He only sees the psychiatrist
when  he  needs  to  adjust  his  medications.  He  last  saw  his  doctor  in  August  2020.  Applicant’s  primary  therapy  is
participating  in  group  counseling,  which  he  began  in  June  2019.  That  counseling  started  out  as  weekly  group
sessions, but  the therapy has more recently been reduced to about once every three or four weeks. He is committed
to taking all necessary steps to continue to maintain sound mental health. (Tr. at 35, 38-39, 41, 68-70; AE A at 3.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  engaged  in  consistent,  effective  therapy  and  has been extremely compliant
with  his  medication,  which  he  listed  in  AE  B.  He  believes  that  he  is  supported  by  a  social  network  that  he  calls  a
“safety  net”  of  individuals  who  are  fully  familiar  with  his  mental-health  issues.  He  feels  he  has  the  support  of  his
therapist  in  the  event  of  any  emotionally  difficult  experiences.  He  testified  that  even  with  his  medication,  he
experiences  anxiety  symptoms,  although  this  happens  infrequently.  He  testified candidly  that  he  experiences
hypomanic  episodes  as  part  of  his  Bipolar  II  Disorder  in  which  he  has  “days  of  incredibly  intense  anxiety.”  He
testified  that  he  has  been  open  and  forthcoming  about  his  condition  in  his  dealings  with  Government  security
officials.  He is proud that he is able to stay fully focused on his work and “apply himself in a creative and intellectual
way.” He also is pleased that his ability “to develop personal relationships has grown significantly under  treatment.”
He  feels that his condition is healthy and stable  at this  time.  He  is  starting  graduate  school,  is  balancing  those
demands  with  his  work commitments, and is managing successfully the stress of purchasing a home. He testified
that receiving treatment is the most important thing that contributes to the quality of his life. (Tr. at 36-48, 72.)
In his evidentiary submissions, Applicant did not provide a psychological evaluation from a qualified therapist with a favorable
analysis of his current condition. In his Answer, he wrote: “I believe that a repeat evaluation by a licensed psychologist would
conclude that my current course of treatment is effective and that my prognosis is extremely good.” (Answer at 3.)
At
the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  “Verifications  of  Treatment”
from  his  psychiatrist,  dated  January
21, 2020, and March 5, 2021; and from both his therapist and group-counseling therapist, both dated January 8, 2020.
None of the verifications provide a  diagnosis,  though  the  two  therapists  wrote  that  his  prognosis  is  “very  good”
with  continued  treatment.  The  verifications  set  forth  limited  factual  statements  describing  Applicant’s  treatment
plan  and  his  compliance  with  it.  The  most  detailed  information  was  provided  by  Applicant’s  group-counseling
therapist,  a  Licensed  Clinical  Social  Worker (the LCSW), in a one-paragraph statement. In January 2020, she wrote
in relevant part:
[Applicant’s]  progress  has  been  excellent  and  he  is  very  conscientious about following through
on treatment recommendations and homework. He also  communicates  with  his  psychiatrist  on  a
consistent  basis  and  is compliant with his medication regimen. He keep in regular contact with his
treatment  team  and  is  quick  to  alert  us  of  any  concerns.  [Applicant’s] condition responds well
treatment
to medication and he is consistent in keeping all of his  appointments.  With  continued
and  proactive  use  of therapeutic techniques, [Applicant’s] prognosis is very good.
AE A at 1. Applicant provided no update to the LCSW’s 2020 verification.
Applicant’s counsel noted at the hearing that Applicant’s insurance company only uses mental-health providers
from the employer of the three therapists referred to above. She also represented that the therapists’ employer has a
policy against providing more detailed reports. (Tr. at 92.)
Applicant’s wife, with whom he has lived since 2011, also wrote a letter of support, dated  February  10,  2020,  in
which  she  praised  his  progress  in  managing  his  mental-health  problems. She  updated  that letter  in  a  post-hearing
submission, dated March 7, 2021 (AE H), in which she wrote:
In summary, I believe [Applicant] has made great progress in managing his care.  Although  mental
health  will  always  be  an  aspect  of  his  life  that  will need  to  be  controlled,  I  feel  he  is  more  than
capable  of  addressing  any situation that may arise successfully.
Applicant testified sincerely that he is highly motivated to continue his compliance  with his treatment plan because it
is only by doing so that he avoids painful daily anxiety.
He  describes  himself  as  “functional”  but  “not  neurotypical.”  He  said  that  he  has  no  intention  to  ever  use
marijuana again because it only makes his anxiety worse. He also testified  that  he  rarely  drinks  alcohol  because
he  has  a  condition  that  makes  him  sick when he does so. (Tr. at 20.)
Whole-Person Evidence
transcript,  and  his  admission
Applicant introduced five reference letters, including an update by one reference, a   letter  from  his  wife  with
program  at  a  prestigious
graduate  student.  All  of
individual   with  outstanding  technical
s is in areas   described   as “state   of the art  ” in the    field. All of  his references are  fully  aware
not  experienced  any   time   when  his  problems  have  affected
and  integrity.  Each reference
an  update,  his  CV,  his  college
U.S.
university, along   with   his transcript
this  evidence    supports  the  conclusion
skills in his field.  He work
of   Applicant’s   mental-health
Applicant’s  professional
believes that Applicant can be trusted to safeguard classified information. (AE C
his  first  four  courses
is  a  highly
They   respect  his  intellect,  judgment,
to  a  graduate
as   a  part-time
covering
that  Applicant
honesty,
–  J.) -
disorders.  They
documents
functional
conduct.
have
