Applicant is a 49-year-old aircraft painter for a defense contractor, employed since
2015. Applicant graduated from high school in 1991. He was married in 1992 and divorced
in  2009.  He  remarried  in  2012  and  was  divorced  in  2018.  He  has  one  adult  child.  His
second spouse had a daughter that lived with them until 2018. Applicant currently has a
secret security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline D (Sexual Behavior) that Applicant was arrested
in  January  2016  and  charged  with  felony  indecency  with  a  child/sexual  contact.  He
pleaded guilty and is on community supervision until August 2024. The SOR alleges the
same facts under Guideline J (Criminal Conduct).
Applicant’s second spouse had a 15-year-old daughter that suffered from Postural
Orthostatic  Tachycardia  Syndrome  (POTS)  caused  by  poor  blood  flow.  This  condition
apparently  caused  pain  in  her  arms  and  legs.  To  relieve  symptoms,  Applicant  often
rubbed her arms, legs, and scalp, at her request and often in front of his spouse. On one
occasion in December 2015, Applicant  intentionally grazed the side of the girl’s breast
over  her  shirt  while  riding  together  in  a  truck.  On  another  occasion  in  January  2016,
Applicant stated he was alone with the girl and began rubbing her while she was in bed
sleeping. During this occurrence, he used his hand to touch the bottom of her breast and
between  her  legs  several  times.  He  did  not  penetrate  her  or  pass  over  her  breasts  or
vagina.  Shortly  thereafter,  he  was  concerned  about  the  criminality  of  his  conduct,  and
apologized to her.
The  girl  reported  the  incidents  to  her  school  authorities,  and  the  police  were
notified. A warrant was issued for Applicant’s arrest and he turned himself into police on
January 20, 2016. Applicant was not indicted, but entered a guilty plea to an information
charging him with injury to a child  with intent to commit bodily injury (injury to child), a
third  degree  felony.  Applicant  received  a  deferred  finding  of  guilt,  and  was  placed  on
community supervision for seven years, known as deferred adjudication probation. The
conditions  of  probation  include  inter  alia,  submission  to  a  clinical  assessment  and
treatment  program  with  a  court-appointed  sex  offender  treatment  provider;  complete
clinical polygraph examinations as directed by the therapist; have no contact with children
under 17 years old; submit a DNA sample; submit to alcohol and drug testing; permit a
probation  officer  access  to  his  residence  for  examination  of  computers  and  electronic
media; and refrain from access to pornography, certain places, and personal use of the
internet. Applicant’s probation period ends in August 2024.
Applicant  began  counseling  with  the  court-appointed  provider  on  January  19,
2016. He completed 185 treatment sessions and one year of aftercare on August 2, 2020.
He will continue to attend one group session per month until 2024 when his probation
ends.  Applicant  was  initially  evaluated  as  having  an  “excellent  chance  of  successfully
completing treatment and community supervision,” and had a “low risk to re-offend.” She
noted that  from the  beginning,  he “took full responsibility  for  his  actions and has been
completely honest in all matters.” Applicant complied with state standards for sex offender
treatment,  and  successfully  passed  several  maintenance  polygraphs  throughout
treatment, the last in February 2020. The polygraphs are intended to measure the honesty
and complying with conditions of treatment and supervision. Applicant also passed a sex
history polygraph that indicated that he had no other victims or abhorrent sexual behavior.
Finally, Applicant took a penile plethysmograph to assess his sexual arousal. The results
showed that Applicant “did not have any deviant sexual arousal.”
The counselor noted that Applicant was the “most compliant client I have ever had
in my 38 years of experience.” She noted that it was very rewarding to work with such a
motivated  client  atypical  of  the  majority  of  offenders  she  has  treated.  The  counselor
reported  that  Applicant  has  no  other  victims,  was  successfully  rehabilitated,  and
represents an extremely low risk to re-offend. She noted that due to his openness and
honesty, he does not present a security risk. She stated that this was Applicant’s first and
only  offense,  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  questionable  judgment,  irresponsibility,  or
emotional instability. (AE A, B, D)
Applicant’s probation officer noted that he is in full compliance of the conditions of
probation,  successfully  completed  sex  offender  treatment,  and  has  no  concerns
pertaining  to  Applicant.  (AE  C,  E)  County  policy  requires  Applicant  to  remain  in
maintenance group sessions once per month until his discharge from probation on August
23, 2024. (AE C)
Applicant disclosed his conduct to his family and friends. After the incidents, the
victim’s mother wrote a letter to the criminal court judge in support of Applicant to retain
his employment and avoid severe criminal penalties. She noted that Applicant had been
a “wonderful father” to her children, and  that he is “truly remorseful” and  in  unbearable
pain for his conduct. She divorced him two years later and she and her daughter live apart
from him. His sister-in-law noted that Applicant made a mistake in judgment, expressed
regret and remorse to the girl,  and he has been  “completely honest and upfront about
what has transpired with the courts, his family, and his counselor.” Similar sentiments and
support were expressed by Applicant’s father, daughter, brother, brother-in-law, cousins,
and friends.
Applicant lives alone in a home located in a remote rural environment. He has no
contact  with  the  victim  or  her  family,  and  does  not  allow  unaccompanied  contact  with
children  or  personal  internet  access.  The  victim  is  now  an  adult  attending  college  and
Applicant  has  not  had  contact  with  her  since  the  incidents.  Applicant  paid  a  $20,000
settlement to her in exchange for a waiver of any claims. Applicant stated that he is well
liked at  work, but does  not get regular  written  evaluations.  Applicant  did not report his
arrest to security personnel at his company until January 5, 2017, almost one year after
his arrest, on advice of his counsel. He has not disclosed the incidents to his supervisor
or coworkers for fear of retribution and ridicule.
