In  her  Answer,  Applicant  admitted SOR  ¶¶ 1.a-1.f, 1.i-1.n,  1.q, 1.r,  1.t, and 1.u,
though  she  asserted  that  many  of  these  accounts  had  been  paid.  She  denied  SOR
¶¶1.g, 1.h, 1.o, 1.p, and 1.s. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  37  years  old.  She  was  married  from  2010  to  2016.  She  has  three
children,  ages  4,  8,  and  13.  (AE  E  at  1)  She  graduated  from  high  school  in  2001.  In
2017,  she  earned  a  certification  in  medical  billing  from  an  online  university.  She  is
currently  pursuing  professional  certification  in  project  management  and  a  bachelor’s
degree. (AE E)
Applicant  has  worked  for  several  years  with  a  defense  contractor  at  a  military
hospital. From 2010 to 2016, she worked in one position there full  time, under various
contracts. Between 2013 and 2015, she also held a part-time job there, working nights
and  weekends.  The  part-time  position  ended  when  that  employer  lost  its  contract.  In
March 2016, Applicant also lost her full-time position, for a similar reason. At the time,
Applicant was on maternity leave. (Item 3; AE E)
Applicant  was  then  unemployed  until  December  2017,  when  she  was  hired  by
her current employer, for another job at the same military hospital. She has remained in
that job for the last three years. She earns about $60,000 annually. She seeks to retain
her eligibility for access to sensitive information. (AE; Item 3)
Applicant  listed  several  debts  on  her  e-QIP  application.  She  fell  behind  on  her
debts  because  she  experienced  difficult  pregnancies,  leading  to  significant  time  away
from work on maternity leave. She noted that she had not been able to pay her debts
since her difficult pregnancies, but hoped that renewed employment would allow her to
do so. She noted  that she had considered bankruptcy and had contacted a debt-relief
agency. (Item 2; Item 3 at 34-50; AE A; AE E)
Additionally, in December 2014, Applicant was in an auto accident while on her
way to work. She incurred medical expenses. The money she received to compensate
her  as  a  result  (about  $6,000,  after  lawyers  and  medical  providers  were  paid)  was  far
less  than  she  expected.  Applicant’s  vehicle  was  totaled  in  the  accident,  so  she
purchased another car. (AE E)
Applicant  gave  additional  background  information  about  her  debts  and  financial
situation in her FORM response. She noted that she had been out of work for a period
before finding her current position with a military health care provider. She intended to
begin returning to financial stability by paying household bills and loans given to her by
family members. She is willing to work out reasonable payment plans. (AE D)
Applicant also asserted that all of the collection accounts had been cleared from
her credit report and that more than half of the debt alleged in her SOR had been paid
and resolved. She noted that only the large auto collection debt  (SOR ¶ 1.d) remains.
However,  she  provided  no  additional  corroborating  documentation.  She  said  she  had
resumed her academic studies. She had researched her financial options and planned
to take appropriate action available to her having found stable employment. (AE D)
Applicant’s  alleged  debts  total  about  $42,930.  Most  of  them  are  consumer  and
medical debts. The largest debt, for $27,209, relates to an auto purchase. The debts are
established  by  the  Government’s  evidence,  which  includes  credit  reports  from  June
2018 and December 2017 (Items 8, 9) and public records concerning certain judgments
(Items 5, 6, 10), and by Applicant’s admissions in her Answer and on her e-QIP. (Items
2, 3)
SOR  ¶   1.a   is  an   $803  judgment  entered  in   2013  relating  to  a   past-due   medical
debt  for   $803.  (Item  5)  The   debt  relates  to   expenses  incurred  by  Applicant   during  her
pregnancy   and   childbirth.  (Item   3  at  36-37)   Applicant  noted  in  her  Answer   that  she
researched   the  debt  with  the  court,   the  creditor’s  attorney  and   the  medical   creditor,
whose office   was closed. She said   she was told by  the  attorney’s  office that they were
no longer collecting on  the debt, though it remained  on her credit report.  (Item 2)  In  her
most recent submission, Applicant provided  a screenshot of  the docket list  for the  case,
with a notation  that she attempted to  challenge the debt  in  court in November 2019. (AE
J) The debt remains pending.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a judgment for $4,574, filed against Applicant in 2016. (Items 6, 7) It
relates to an auto accident. She explained that her car slid on ice at a red light while she
was on her way to work. (AE D at 12; Item 3 at 36-37) Applicant reported in her Answer
that  she  had  been  making  monthly  payments  on  the  debt,  but  this  is  undocumented.
(Item 2) Most recently, she explained that she defaulted on payments on the debt once
before, and her driver’s license was suspended. She contacted the (creditor’s) attorney
and requested  to  lower  her  payments  due to  the  COVID-19 pandemic.  She intends to
finish paying the bill by 2021 if she remains employed. (AE E at 12) The current status
of this debt, and any payments towards it, are undocumented.
SOR ¶ 1.c is a judgment for $545. The Government conceded in its FORM that
this judgment was released in June 2019. (FORM at 2, fn. 2, citing Item 10)
SOR ¶ 1.d is a past-due auto loan debt for $27,209. Applicant reported this debt
on  her  e-QIP,  noting  that  it  was  for  the  purchase  of  the  vehicle  she  financed  after
totaling  her  first  car  in  the  accident.  (Item  3  at  43-44)  She  said  that  the  car  was
expensive  but  suitable  for  her  growing  family.  She  could  afford  the  monthly  payment
with her part-time income, but she lost that income when she was laid off. The car was
later repossessed. (AE A, AE E at 4, 13)
In  her  most  recent  submission,  Applicant  detailed  that  she  was  asked  by  the
creditor  to  make  six  monthly  payments  of  $691  before  they  would  offer  a  settlement,
and  she  was  unable  to  do  so.  More  recently,  she  has  an  offer  to  make  six  monthly
payments  of  $100,  for  a  50%  reduction  on  the  debt.  Payments  began  in  November
2020,  and  the  balance  is  now  $25,121.  (AE  E  at  12,  AE  H,  AE  I)  The  50%  reduction
offer from the creditor is undocumented.
SOR ¶ 1.e is a charged-off debt for $3,776. (Item 8 at 2; Item 9 at 6) This is for
unpaid rent for an old lease that ended in October 2015. Applicant admits the debt, but
disputes that she owes the full amount (for two month’s rent, instead of only one), and
disputes that she broke the lease. She asserts that the debt has been removed from her
credit reports. (AE E at 12-13) It is not listed on her most recent credit report (AE K) but
no payments towards the debt are documented.
SOR  ¶  1.f  is  a  consumer  debt  in  collection  for  $882.  (Item  8)  Most  recently,
Applicant states that the debt has been settled for $627, though this is undocumented.
(AE E at 15) The debt is not reflected on a recent credit report. (AE K)
SOR  ¶  1.g  is  a  debt  in  collection,  owed  to  a  bank,  for  $546.  (Item  8)  Applicant
asserted  that  the  debt  is  a duplicate  of  SOR  ¶  1.c,  a debt  the  Government  conceded.
The two debts  are  to the  same creditor  bank  and for the  same amount,  and are  likely
duplicative.
SOR ¶¶ 1.h-1.n are medical debts, totaling a combined $803. Applicant provided
documentation with her Answer that these debts have been paid. (AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.o  ($507)  is  a  charged-off  account  to  a  bank,  relating  to  an  auto  loan
debt.  (Item 9)  Applicant  states that  the  debt  has been  paid,  and that  she disputed the
debt. She notes that the account no longer appears on her credit reports. (Item 8; AE K)
SOR ¶ 1.p ($1,185) is a debt in collection relating to a cellphone contract. (Item 9
at  6)  Applicant  reported  the  debt  on  her  e-QIP  (Item  3  at  39)  She  denied  the  debt
because it was no longer on her credit report. (Item 2) She noted that she made a few
small payments, but disputed the full amount owed because she cancelled the account.
(AE E at 15-16) The account is no longer listed on her credit reports. (Item 8; AE K)
SOR ¶ 1.q is a cellphone debt in collection for $957. (Item 9 at 7) Most recently,
Applicant stated that the debt was settled for $478 and paid in February 2018.
SOR ¶ 1.r is an account placed in collection by a bank, for $584. Applicant said
this debt is paid and is no longer on her credit report. She documented with her Answer
that this debt has been paid. (AE A)
SOR  ¶¶  1.s,  1.t,  and  1.u  ($394,  $74,  and  $74)  are  medical  debts  in  collection.
Applicant denied these debts because they are no longer on her credit report. She also
said they were paid in early 2018. (AE E at 15)
Applicant  noted  in  her  most  recent  submission  that  she  intends  to  continue
working  on  paying  down  her  debts,  so  she  can  advance  professionally  and  provide
financial stability for herself and her family. (AE E)
A close friend and co-worker wrote a recommendation letter for Applicant, noting
that she had overcome many obstacles, including difficult pregnancies, loss of income,
and  ongoing  physical  therapy  after  her  auto  accident.  (AE  F)  In  a  separate  reference
letter, Applicant’s supervisor attests that she is a reliable employee. (AE G)
