Applicant  is  59  years  old,  and  married  with  three  adult  children.  He  has  a  high
school  education  with  additional  college  classes.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor as an Analyzer and is seeking to obtain national security eligibility for a security
clearance. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Tr. 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline  D, Sexual Behavior)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he engaged in sexual behavior that reflects a lack of judgment, or may subject
Applicant  to  undue  influence  or  coercion.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  two
allegations in the SOR under this guideline with exceptions and explanations, stating in
his Answer,  “I admit to a sexual relationship for 6 months, [approx.] 1989 to 1990.”  He
also submitted additional evidence to support his request for a finding of national security
eligibility.
Applicant testified that he was sexually involved with his sister-in-law (Ms. One)
approximately 20 to 50 times between 1993 and 1994. At that time she was 14 and 15
years old, being born in 1978. Applicant was in his late 20s at the time of their involvement
and in the Navy. With regard to the relationship, Applicant stated, “It was wrong. It was
totally  wrong.  I  have  no  excuses.”  I  have  compared  Applicant’s  testimony  of  the
relationship with the statements of Ms. One to local and Naval authorities. Many of the
claims made by Ms. One appear to be exaggerations, particularly about the number of
times they had sexual intercourse. (Government Exhibits 3 and 4; Tr. 19-21, 40-46.)
In  May  1995  Ms.  One’s  parents  found  out  about  her  sexual  relationship  with
Applicant and reported it to the local police. The local police coordinated with the Naval
authorities  and  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Unlawful  Sexual  Intercourse,
Oral Copulation of a Person Under 16, and Lewd Act Upon A Child. From the available
evidence, including Applicant’s testimony, it appears he pled guilty to Lewd or Lascivious
Acts With a Child 14 or 15 Years of Age, and Sexual Intercourse With a Child 14 or 15
Years of Age. He was sentenced to one year in the county jail. He ended up serving eight
months  on  work  release.  Applicant  also  served  probation  successfully.  He  has  had  to
register yearly as a sex offender since that time as required by state law. Applicant has
been consistent in fulfilling his legal responsibilities. (Government Exhibits 5, 6, and 7; Tr.
21-27, 29-31, 40.)
During the time he was incarcerated Applicant was separated from the Navy for
misconduct with a General Discharge (Under Honorable Conditions), as supported by his
DD Form 214. (Applicant Exhibit E; Tr. 27-28.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant’s conduct alleged under
Paragraph 1 was also criminal activity that creates doubt about his judgment, reliability,
and trustworthiness. By its very nature, such conduct calls into question Applicant’s ability
or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. Applicant denied this allegation.
Paragraph 3  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,
dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations.  In  his  Answer,
Applicant denied all three subparagraphs under this guideline.
3.a.   The   Government  alleged   in   this  subparagraph  that  Applicant’s  sexual
relationship with Miss One, as set forth above, was also cognizable under this guideline.
3.b   and  3.c.  Applicant   was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the   Office  of
Personnel Management on June 20, 2017. A Report of  Investigation (ROI) was prepared
by the investigator, which Applicant certified to be accurate on September 28, 2019. The
investigator  prefaces the discussion about the above events as follows, “He [Applicant]
offered the following detailed information to the best of  his memory: in  approximately 1985
(exact date  not recalled) he was in the navy [sic] and  was stationed  in  Redding,  CA.”  The
ROI goes on to state  that Applicant  became involved with Ms.  One in  1985  (when  she
would have been eight years old). The  ROI  reports that  Applicant further stated that the
relationship  lasted  six   months  or  less.   These  statements  are  factually  incorrect.
(Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 33-39.)
Applicant  was  extensively  questioned  about  the  differences  between   the
statements   in   the  ROI   and   the  facts  as  presented  by  other  exhibits,  and   agreed   to  by
Applicant in his testimony. Applicant  adamantly stated he simply could not remember the
exact years things happened  when he was questioned  in 2017, or when he prepared his
Answer. He  particularly stated that he did not have  access to the exhibits presented by
the Government, which  contained accurate dates. Applicant testified, “I’ve  never denied
any  wrongdoing.”   When  asked  by  Department  Counsel  if  he  was  downplaying  what
happened between himself and  Ms.  One he testified, “No. I would never downplay this.
It’s  not  something  that’s  taken  lightly  at  all.  I  would  never  take  this  lightly.  So,  I  would
never downplay anything. Like I said, I would rather  get it right the first time instead of
having to reopen this over and over again. But, I will if I have to.” (Tr.  36-39.)
Mitigation
Applicant’s  mother-in-law, wife and oldest son wrote letters on Applicant’s behalf.
They all acknowledge the “unfortunate situation that involved both of  my daughters.”  They
all say he has paid a severe price over many years and has learned from  his mistakes.
(Applicant Exhibits A, B, and C.)
