Applicant, 40, applied for a security clearance in anticipation of employment with
a federal contracting company. He completed a security clearance application, his first,
in January 2019, disclosing close relatives who are citizens and residents of Turkey: his
father  and  stepmother.  Applicant  also  disclosed  his  mother,  sister,  and  stepbrother,
each  of  whom  resides  in  the  United  States.  The  SOR  only  alleges  Applicant’s
relationships with his father and stepmother as security concerns. (Tr. 17-18; GE 1)
Applicant  is  from   the  Turkey,  a  constitutional   republic  with  a  multiparty
parliamentary  system  and   a  president.   The   U.S.-Turkey  friendship   dates  to  1831.
Turkey  is  an  important  U.S.   security  partner  and   has  been  a  valued  North  Atlantic
Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  ally  since  1952.  Turkey  is  a   leader  in   the   Alliance’s
Resolute Support  Mission in  Afghanistan and is also a vital member of  the Counter-ISIL
Coalition.  Turkey continues to face a  significant terrorist threat from both external  and
home-grown  sources.  The   current  U.S.  State  Department  travel  warning  for   Turkey
reflects  an   increased   risk  from   terrorist   groups  and   the  potential   for   violence  against
U.S.  citizens   due   to  an  increase  in   anti-American  rhetoric.   In  the  aftermath  of  a  July
2016 coup attempt; the U.S. State Department has also reported a number of significant
human  rights  problems  in   Turkey,  including  arbitrary  killings,  suspicious   deaths  of
persons in  custody, forced disappearances,  torture, as  well  as the arbitrary  arrests  and
detention  of tens of  thousands of persons, including opposition members of parliament,
lawyers,  journalists,  foreign   citizens,  and   Turkish   nationals  with  purported  claims  to
“terrorist” groups or engaging in peaceful legitimate speech. (GE 1; HE III)
Applicant  attended  secondary  school  and  completed  his  university  education  in
Turkey. He completed his compulsory military service in 2004. Applicant initially came to
the United States in 2004 with a J-1 visa to participate in an internship program. During
the  internship  program,  Applicant  met  his  future  wife  –  a  U.S.  citizen  by  birth.  The
couple married in 2005 and Applicant was able to obtain permanent resident status. He
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in June 2009.  (Tr. 21-22, 47, 52-83; GE 1)
Applicant’s father and stepmother are citizens and residents of Turkey. They live
in a large city on the western coast of the country. Applicant’s father, 68, retired from the
Turkish Air Force as a colonel in the late 1990s, when Applicant was in middle school.
Applicant  testified  that  although  his  father  trained  to  be  a  pilot,  he  spent  his  military
career managing retail establishments on Turkish military bases. In the 30 years since
retiring, Applicant’s father has owned and operated a series of small businesses. On his
security  clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  gave  his  father  $52,000,
which  Applicant  believes  his  father  used  as  capital  for  a  business  venture.  Applicant
provided the money from the savings he and his wife accumulated. He does not expect
his  father  to  repay  the  money  and  sees  it  as  an  offering  of  gratitude  for  the  financial
support  his  father  provided  him  through  college.  Applicant’s  stepmother  is  a  French
teacher  who  is  retired  from  a  public  university.  Applicant’s  father  and  stepmother
receive  pensions  from  the  Turkish  government.  They  are  financially  self-sufficient  and
do not rely on him for ongoing financial support. (Tr. 29-31, 46, 48, 53-56, 58; GE 1)
Applicant  communicates  with  his  father  and  stepmother  a  few  times  per  month
through video chats, primarily to allow his parents to see their granddaughter. Applicant
has not traveled to Turkey since 2007. His father and stepmother have a current tourist
visas to enter the United States. They have visited on four occasions for vacations with
Applicant and his family. (Tr. 28, 49-51, 88)
Aside from his father and stepmother, Applicant has no other ties to Turkey and
he is not seeking to create any additional ties. Applicant considers himself firmly rooted
to  the  United  States  by  his  family  and  the  community  in  which  he  and  his  wife  have
chosen to live. He completed his master’s degree at a U.S. university in 2013. Applicant
and his wife have one child, age six who is a U.S. citizen by birth. They are expecting
their  second  child  in  January  2021.  Applicant  and  his  wife  have  owned  their  current
home, their third home together, since July 2016. The couple has over $500,000 in U.S-
based  assets.  Neither  Applicant  nor  his  wife  have  any  assets  based  outside  of  the
United States. (Tr. 25-26, 31, 57, 83-85; GE 1)
