Applicant  is  a  49-year-old,  married   man.  He   has  a  six-year-old   child  from  his
marriage  and  an adult child from a prior relationship. He  earned a bachelor’s degree in
1995. Currently, he  is  a  federal  contractor who  works  in  the  information  technology  field. He
has been working for  the same company since 2005, and  was promoted to his current
position  as a supervisor  in 2010. He has held a top secret clearance since 2011. (Tr. 36)
Applicant is  highly  respected  on  the  job. According  to  a  coworker,  Applicant is  a  “fair,
unbiased, even-tempered, conscientious,  and  hardworking”  employee  who  goes  above  and
beyond  in   mentoring his  subordinates.  (AE D1   at  1)  According   to  a former   supervisor,
Applicant “continuously demonstrated sound judgment at work.” (AE D2 at 1)
Applicant began smoking marijuana in  1989 while in  high school, using it once  per
week. In college, he used it a few times per week. (Tr. 32) In 1995, Applicant was charged
with possession of marijuana, and was sentenced to six months of probation. (Tr. 32-33)
He  continued to use marijuana for  three years after his arrest.  In 1998, Applicant came to
realize that his marijuana-smoking habit was not productive. (Tr.  34)  Consequently, he  quit
using it.
In late 2014, Applicant was diagnosed with Stage 3  rectal  cancer.  (AE K)  He  had  to
undergo chemotherapy. The chemotherapy medications made him extremely nauseated
and  miserable. (Tr.  21) In response, his doctor prescribed  anti-nausea medications, but
they proved to be unsuccessful. (Answer at 3; Tr.  20, 36)  Applicant was afraid that he was
going to die. (Tr. 21)  One of his friends suggested that he use marijuana to alleviate his
nausea. (Tr. 21) Applicant then resumed his marijuana  use. He  used  marijuana  throughout
his chemotherapy treatment,  which  lasted from December 2014  to  March  2015. He  was  on
short-term disability leave from work when he was using marijuana.
By March 2015, Applicant’s cancer had  gone into remission. He  discontinued his
marijuana use. Approximately three years later,  in  July 2018, Applicant used marijuana
again  on two occasions. (Tr. 21)  He  used it with his brother  who was living with him at the
time,  and  who had  purchased  it in  a jurisdiction where it was legal. (Tr. 21) When Applicant
used marijuana in  2018, he was not undergoing chemotherapy treatment,  as his  cancer
was still  in  remission. (Tr. 22) Applicant recognizes that he made “a terrible mistake,”  and
that regardless of whether it is legal  in  some state jurisdictions, it remains illegal  under
federal law, and is prohibited for people holding security clearances. (Tr. 22)
In February 2020, Applicant completed a drug and alcohol awareness class. (AE J)
In October 2020, Applicant underwent a mental health and substance abuse assessment.
(AE M)  Part  of the assessment included a Brief Addiction Monitor,  “an evidence-based
measurement  used  to  establish  a  baseline  of  substance  use  and  risk  and  protective
factors.”  Based on the assessment, Applicant did not meet any of the minimum criteria for
substance use concerns. (AE M)
Applicant has not smoked marijuana since July 2018. His brother no longer smokes
marijuana and no longer lives with him. (Tr. 24) Applicant does not intend to use marijuana
in the future even if his cancer recurs. (Tr. 28) On February 11, 2020, Applicant executed
an affidavit expressing his intent not to use marijuana again, and acknowledging that any
future use is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (AE I) Applicant stated on
a security clearance application completed in 2011 that he would not resume his marijuana
use, and he reiterated his intent not to resume marijuana use on his security clearance
application completed in January 2018. (GE 1 at 31)
