Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since June 2018. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he
has  held  for  about  ten  years.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2010  and  a  master’s
degree  in  2014.  He  is  married  with  four  children.  (Transcript  (Tr.)  at  14,  20-23,  52;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant went to a department store on July 12, 2017. He taped a barcode of a
$158 piece of sporting equipment to a $326 piece of equipment. The department store
security officer saw him do it, and took him into custody  after Applicant purchased the
equipment  at  the  lower  price.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with  larceny  by  false
pretenses. He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of disorderly conduct.  He performed
community service, paid court costs, and the charge was dismissed.  (Tr. at 25, 28-30;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 4; AE D)
Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  go  into  the   department  store  intending  to  steal
anything. He was in a hurry  after work to buy a present for  his son who was having a
birthday party  that evening. He  initially testified his son’s birthday was July 12th, the day
he  was  arrested.  When  confronted  with  the  information  from  his  Questionnaire  for
National  Security  Positions  (SF   86),  he  admitted  that  his  son’s   actual   birthday  was
about four months before  the date Applicant  was arrested. He  stated his family took a
vacation  during  his son’s actual birthday, and  they delayed having the party.  He  stated
that he got confused because it is difficult to memorize his children’s birthdays. He  also
denied  that  he  testified  that  he  was  arrested  on  his   son’s  birthday,  even  though  he
testified to that fact just minutes previously. (Tr. at 100-107)
Applicant  stated that  there  was  no price tag  on the  item  he wanted,  so he took
the price tag from a similar item that he thought was about the same price. He admitted
that he knew the item purchased was more expensive, but he did not know how much
more  expensive.  He  stated  that  he  thought  it  cost  between  about  $150  and  $250.  He
previously  worked  for  the  department  store  chain,  and  he  stated  that  it  was  not
uncommon for there to be discrepancies between the price tag and what is rung up at
the  register.  He  testified  that  he  deeply  regrets  his  actions  and  is  remorseful,  but  he
does not believe what he did was stealing because he did not intend to steal from the
department store and he offered to pay for the item. (Tr. at 25-30, 69-76, 100-107; GE
1)
Applicant worked as an electronics engineer for a branch of the U.S. military on a
military installation from October 2013 until he went on paid administrative leave (non-
duty pay status) in January 2018. He had some difficulties with a new supervisor, and in
September  2017,  he  was  required  to  complete  a  software  training  program  offered  by
the  DOD.  His  supervisor  noted  the  training  was  ordered  “because  [Applicant’s]
performance  and  contribution  were  severely  inadequate  and  making  it  impossible  for
him  to  perform  duties  required  from  his  position  as  a  [pay  rate]  Electronics  Engineer.”
Applicant  signed  an  agreement  in  September  2017  that  the  work  for  the  training
program would be his own, and that he was not to copy work from other employees or
the  Internet.  His  supervisor  met  with  him  in  October  2017  and  discussed  the  intent  of
the program and the importance of completing the program tasks. (Tr. at 21-22, 30-32;
GE 1, 3, 5)
Applicant  submitted  a  training-program  project  for   peer  review   in   December
2017.  The   reviewer  did  a  search  of   the  Internet  and   found  that  the  project  had   been
copied  from  sources   on  the  Internet  with   minor  changes  to  the   code.  Applicant
submitted  a  reworked  project  within  a  few  days.  His  supervisor  found  that  the  code
Applicant  submitted  was  copied   from   another  employee’s  submission  with  minor
alterations.  (GE 5)
Applicant testified that he did not  think that he did  anything wrong because code
is  rarely  written  from  scratch.  It  usually  is  modified   from  a  template  or  other  code.  He
stated  that  he  changed  about  20%  to  25%   of  the  code,  which   is  substantial.  He   also
stated  that  the  course  was  conducted  in   a  team   environment,  and   the   other  student
voluntarily gave  him her code. He admitted that in  his Merit  Systems Protection Board
(MSPB)  hearing (addressed below), the other student testified that she did not give him
her code. He  stated that he thought she was scared and  did not want to get involved in
his problems.  (Tr. at 31-37, 77-85, 96-99)
Applicant’s  supervisor  discussed  the  incident  with  Applicant  on  December  19,
2017.  The  discussion  was  documented  in  a  form  for  his  employee  work  folder  and
signed by the supervisor and Applicant. It was noted on the form that the matter was not
resolved. (GE 5)
Applicant  was  issued  a  notice   of   proposed  removal  in   late  January  2018.  It
stated:  “This  is  a  notice  of  proposed   action  to  remove   you  from  [military  branch]
employment  to  be   effective  not  later   than  30  calendar  days  after  you  receive   this
notice.”  The   reason  for  the  proposed  action  was  deliberate  misrepresentation,  based
upon the  two incidents  of  copying code, as addressed   above.  He  was  placed  on non-
duty  pay  status.   It   was  noted  that  Applicant   had   no   past  disciplinary  record,   and   he
received  a successful  rating on his last performance evaluation.  Disciplinary information
on  three  other  unnamed  employees  was  included   for   comparison  purposes.   Applicant
through counsel (different lawyer and  law firm than his attorney at his security  clearance
hearing)  responded   to  the  notice  of  proposed   removal   in   mid-February   2018.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5, 6; AE O)
Applicant was issued a notice of decision to remove on April 20, 2018. The notice
indicated that the reasons stated in the notice of proposed removal were fully supported
by  the  evidence  and  warranted  his  removal  from  employment  with  the  military  branch
“effective  4/20/2018.”  Applicant  was  informed  that  he  could  challenge  the  removal
through  a  grievance  or  if  the  removal  becomes  effective  through  an  appeal  to  the
MSPB. There were additional options if he believed the action was taken in reprisal for
whistleblowing or if it was based on unlawful discrimination. If he believed it was based
on  unlawful  discrimination,  he  could  either  appeal  to  the  MSPB  or  file  an  Equal
Employment  Opportunity  (EEO)  complaint,  but  not  both.  He  was  also  notified  that  his
placement in a non-duty pay status was cancelled effective April 20, 2018. He continued
to receive Leave and Earnings Statements (LES) until at least April 2019, stating that he
was not receiving pay, but apparently still employed by the military branch. (Tr. at 38-39,
48-49; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 7; AE A-C)
Applicant filed an appeal to the MSPB. He raised unlawful discrimination, based
on  his  race,  color,  national  origin,  and  retaliation  for  prior  protected  activity  (EEO
complaint). He had a hearing before an MSPB administrative judge in September 2018.
The administrative judge issued the decision on October 3, 2018, affirming the military
branch’s (agency) actions. The administrative judge found that “the agency proved both
specifications  of  its  charge  by  preponderant  evidence,”  and  that  “the  agency  proved
[Applicant]  knowingly  provided  incorrect  information  with  the  intention  of  deceiving  the
agency when he submitted the code hoping to pass it off as his own as alleged in both
specifications.” (Tr. at 31; GE 8)
Applicant  through  his  attorney  petitioned  the  MSPB  to  review  and  reverse  the
administrative  judge’s  decision.  He  sought  “reversal  of  the  Agency’s  decision  in  its
entirety,  [and]  reinstatement  of  [Applicant]  with  all  applicable  backpay,  attorney’s  fees,
and  all  associated  costs.”  The  final  decision  of  the  MSPB  is  still  pending.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 8)
Applicant  submitted  an  SF  86   on  October  1,  2018.   Under  Section  13A  –
Employment Activities, he reported his dates of employment with  the military branch as
“From  (Month/Year)  10/2013   to  (Month/Year)  05/2018   (Estimated).”   He   wrote   the
reason for leaving the job was: “Looking for  better career prospects, professional growth
and work opportunities.”
Applicant answered “No” to the following question:
For  this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the
last seven (7) years?
  Fired
   Quit after being told you would be fired
  Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct
   Left  by  mutual   agreement
following  notice  of  unsatisfactory
performance
Applicant also answered “No” to the following question.
For  this  employment,  in  the  last  seven  (7)   years   have  you  received   a
written warning, been officially reprimanded,  suspended, or disciplined for
misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security policy?
Applicant was interviewed for his background investigation in April 2019. He told
the  investigator  that  he  voluntarily  resigned  his  position  with  the  military  branch  after
being  placed  on  paid  leave  for  three  months  pending  an  internal  investigation  into
plagiarizing  the  intellectual  property  of  another  employee.  He  stated  that  he  filed  an
EEO complaint, but the complaint was withdrawn when he voluntarily resigned  in April
2018. He was adamant that he was never officially terminated. He stated that his case
was being appealed before the MSPB because he wanted all allegations of plagiarizing
and anything regarding a possible termination removed from his permanent government
employment record. His discussions about his arrest and copying code were consistent
with his testimony at his hearing. (GE 2)
Applicant denied intentionally falsifying the SF 86. He stated that he was told by
the attorney handling his MSPB appeal that he was still employed by the military branch
pending  the  appeal.  He  did  not  have  a  good  explanation  for  why  he  listed  that  his
employment with the military branch ended in May 2018 if he thought that he was still
employed  by  the  military.  He  stated  that  was  a  mistake.  He  testified  that  “Looking  for
better  career  prospects,  professional  growth  and  work  opportunities”  was  accurate
because  he  was  already  looking  for  a  different  job.  He  also  admitted  that  he  did  not
report  everything  on  the  SF  86  because  he  “was  afraid  that  [defense  contractor
employer] would use that against [him] to deny [him] of [his]  job.”  (Tr. at 37-52, 86-90;
Applicant’s response to SOR; AE E-H)
Applicant  testified  that  he  had   never  had  a  security   violation.  He   testified  he
misinterpreted  the  question  about   whether  he  had   “received  a  written  warning,  been
officially reprimanded,  suspended, or disciplined for  misconduct in the workplace, such
as  a  violation  of   security  policy,”  as   being  limited  to  security  incidents.  He   also  stated
that  he  answered  “no”  to  that  question  because   he  was  told  that  if  he  wins   his  MSPB
case, his employment record would be wiped clean. (Tr. at 51-57)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  told  the  background  investigator  during  his  interview
that he voluntarily resigned his position with the military after being placed on paid leave
for  three  months  pending  an  internal  investigation  into  plagiarizing  the  intellectual
property  of  another  employee.  He  testified  that  was  a  truthful  answer  because  he
received a job offer from the defense contractor in February 2018, before the notice of
decision to remove was issued in April 2018. He also stated that he thought he would
win his MSPB appeal, and that he would “resign” from working at the group he was with
at  the  military  branch  and  seek  a  transfer  to  another  group,  or  he  would  completely
resign from working for the military branch. (Tr. at 57-66, 91-92)
Applicant  volunteers   in   his  community,   and   he  is  active  in  his  church.   He
submitted  documents  and   letters  attesting to  his  excellent  job  performance and   sound
moral   character.  He
trustworthiness,  humility,
perseverance,  loyalty,  dependability,   work  ethic,  diligence,  and   honesty.  (Tr.  at  24-25;
AE I-N, P)
for   his   dedication,
is  praised
