Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  senior  program  manager  for  a  defense  contractor,
employed since August 2017. He previously worked as a senior staff project engineer for
another defense contractor from 2001 until he was suspended and resigned in June 2017.
He received two bachelor’s degrees in 1998 and 2000, a master’s degree in 2004, and a
doctorate degree in 2013. He married in 2000 and has four children, ages 10 through 17.
He testified that he has held DOD security clearances and special access program (SAP)
privileges  for  over  19  years.  He  reported  that  his  top-secret  clearance  was  granted  in
about 2003.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  M  (Use  of  Information  Technology)  that
Applicant resigned in June 2017 in lieu of termination after his employer discovered that
he misused a company computer to view pornography or adult-oriented material, and he
violated  security  protocols  by  using  a  personal  external  storage  device  on  a  company
computer.
The SOR alleges under Guideline E (Personal Conduct) that: (a) Applicant falsified
his September 2017 SCA by answering “no” to a question in Section 13C - Employment
Record, asking if he was fired from a job; quit after being told he would be fired; left a job
by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct; left a job by mutual
agreement after notice of unsatisfactory performance; received a written warning, been
officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such
as a violation of security policy; and (b) Applicant falsified his September 2017 SCA by
answering “no” to a question in  Section 27 –  Use of Information Technology Systems,
asking  if  he  introduced,  removed,  or  used  hardware,  software,  or  media  in  connection
with  any  information  technology  system  without  authorization,  when  specifically
prohibited by rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations, or attempted any of the above.
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he used his work-issued laptop
to view sexually-explicit videos at his home with his wife. He claimed that on five to ten
occasions,  he inserted  a removable drive that  contained  sexually-explicit  videos into a
10
USB port on his company laptop to view with his wife. He denied that he resigned from
his job in lieu of termination; rather he averred that although he knew his actions could
result in  “future disciplinary action,” he resigned because he was embarrassed and his
reputation was tarnished at his workplace. (Ans.)
Applicant  also  denied  falsifying  his  SCA,  claiming  he  did  not  resign  under  an
“explicit or promise of future discipline” or for any other reason posed in the question 13C
on his SCA, and that an answer of “no” continues to be the correct answer. He also stated
that although his initial answer to SCA question 27 was “factually incorrect,” he did not
deliberately falsify his answer. He explained that he corrected his answer to question 27
after reviewing it with the investigator during his personal subject interview (PSI), and that
he  was  “open  and  candid  with  the  investigator  about  his  reasons  for  leaving”  his
employment.  (Ans.)  In  fact,  the  PSI  shows  that  Applicant  was  twice  asked  about  his
response to SCA question 13C regarding his suspension from employment, not question
27 regarding his use of information technology (IT) systems, where he changed his SCA
answer and admitted the violation. (GE 2.)
Applicant’s  work  for  his  previous  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  spanned  16
years and required security eligibility at the top-secret level, with special access program
privileges. He was a first-line manager and supervised other cleared employees. He was
trained on information security measures while employed with the company, and attended
required  security  briefings.  He  worked  within  a  DOD-designated  “closed  area”  where
phones,  personal  computers,  and  other  personal  devices  were  prohibited,  however
company-issued laptops were allowed into the area and were connected to company IT
systems  while  there.  Before  the  incidents  in  question,  Applicant  had  no  prior  security
infractions.
Applicant  used  his  work-issued  computer  to  view  pornography  installed  via  a
personal USB device (external hard drive). He testified that he used the USB device and
company computer to view pornography for four to six months, including with his spouse
and while on travel alone. He did not correct the length of time he used the device when
speaking to the government investigator, nor did he correct it on his PSI when he certified
its accuracy in response to Government interrogatories.
When the USB device was inserted into the computer,  a warning  banner appeared
on the screen that warned about moving information to or from the computer.  Applicant
admitted  in  his  PSI  that  he  knew   of  the  policy  prohibiting  employees  from  inserting
external  non-employment-approved hardware  into work devices  (GE  2.),  but  later testified
that the use of  a  personal  USB device  plugged into the  computer was a “grey area.” (Tr.
38)  Applicant   justified  his  actions  by  claiming   that  he  was  not  logged  into  a  company
network,   he  was  not  on  duty,  and   the  computer   was  not  used  for   classified   work.   He
testified that he  knew  viewing pornography on his company computer was  a violation of
company policy. (Tr. 38; AE L.)
Unbeknown  to  Applicant,  his  company  computer  was  being  monitored  by  his
employer, who discovered the improper activity and conducted an investigation. (GE 2;
11
GE  4.)   The  company’s  investigation  revealed  that   pornography  was  present   on
Applicant’s   USB  drive  and   that  using  a  company  computer   to  view  such  material  was
prohibited.   (GE  4.)  The  investigator  explained   to  Applicant   that  pornography  was  a
“commonly recognized threat  vector” and  a  method  for “placing malicious computer code
into a computer system or network.” (GE 4.) Applicant  confirmed that he also  used the
USB  device  while   on   a  recent  business  trip,  and   admitted  that  he  used  “absolutely
incredibly poor judgment in using the device.” (GE 4.)
Applicant also used the work computer to access an online website to view online
personal ads while on travel, and used “email to look for a meeting with other men.” (GE
4.) Applicant told the investigator that he was only “playing a game,” and that no meeting
occurred on his last trip, but admitted that he previously met with people  on two other
occasions but never discussed his work and had no continuing contact with either person.
(GE 4.) The company investigator explained to Applicant that “engaging in such activity
could  place  him  at  great  risk  physically  and  professionally  by  someone  he  met  by
attempting to harm or compromise him in some manner.” (GE 4.) Applicant’s use of the
company computer to arrange personal liaisons was not alleged in the SOR.
Applicant  carried  his  personal  USB  device  into  the  closed  work  area  in  his
briefcase,  in  violation  of  company  policy.  (GE  4;  AE  L.)  The  company  labeled  this  a
security  violation.  (AE  L.)  Contrary  to  his  testimony,  he  admitted  to  the  company
investigator that he knew using the USB device in his company computer was prohibited,
but he claimed he was “not sure” whether the device could be carried into the closed work
area. (GE 4.) In testimony, he stated that he did not know he was prohibited from taking
the device into the closed area, but he “should have  known.”  (Tr. 34-37.) Introducing a
prohibited device into the closed work area was not alleged in the SOR.
In a subsequent statement addressed to the company disciplinary review board
(DRB), Applicant stated that he “exercised some very poor judgment in [his] personal life
and does not dispute any of the facts as presented to [him] by the investigators.” (GE 4 –
Statement.)  He  pleaded  with  the  DRB  that  he  would  accept  any  disciplinary  action
mandated if they allowed him to continue employment, but if that was not possible, he
requested that the DRB allow him to resign or impose a form of termination that might
allow him a clean start in another industry. (GE 4 – Statement.)
Applicant  was  stripped  of  his  access  badge  and  was  placed  on  indefinite
disciplinary  suspension  pending  a  formal  disposition  of  the  DRB.  (GE  4;  AE  L.)  The
company reported Applicant’s conduct  to  DOD  via a JPAS incident  history  report,  and
noted that Applicant resigned via email on June 22, 2017, the day before the DRB. The
company noted that Applicant’s resignation was “in lieu of termination,” and he was not
eligible  for  rehire.  (GE  3;  AE  L.)  Applicant  was  aware  that  the  DRB  could  result  in
disciplinary  action  or  termination  of  employment,  and  testified  that  he  was  concerned
about his reputation in the company and believed a “negative” DRB outcome would limit
his ability to retain a security clearance. (Tr. 21-26.) In testimony, he quibbled regarding
the labeling of his suspension, calling it “administrative leave,” not a suspension, because
he was not formally notified of a suspension and was paid. (Tr. 41.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  Government  investigator  in  August  2018  (PSI)
while  he  was  employed  by  another  defense  contractor.  He  did  not  initially  reveal  his
suspension and full involvement in the misuse of the company computer. He was twice
asked if he had received a written reprimand, been officially reprimanded, suspended, or
disciplined for misconduct in the workplace such as a violation of security policy, and he
twice answered “no.” When confronted with his suspension from his previous employer,
he hesitated before admitting that he was suspended for inserting personal hardware into
his work computer to view pornography. (GE 2.)
When  asked  by  the  investigator  whether  he  introduced,  removed  or  used
hardware,  software,  or  media  in  connection  with  any  information  technology  system
without  authorization  when  specifically  prohibited,  he  stated  “yes.”  He  claimed  he
misunderstood the related question on his SCA when he answered “no” to question 27,
but did not elaborate on what he misunderstood. (GE 2.) In testimony, Applicant claimed
that he answered “no” to question 27 because he believed the question was limited to
classified  systems,  despite  that  it  specifically  referred  to  “any  information  technology
system.” (Tr. 27-29.) He testified that he finally understood that his answer on the SCA
was  incorrect  after  the  investigator  repeated  the  question  with  an  emphasis  on  “any”
system.  I  note  that  the  PSI  does  not  indicate  that  Applicant  was  coached  by  the
investigator or that the investigator had to emphasize any particular part of SCA question
27,  rather  the  investigator  noted  that  she  twice  asked  Applicant  to  disclose  his
employment  record  in  response  to  SCA  question  13C,  before  he  acknowledged  his
suspension.
Applicant  explained  to  the  Government  investigator  that  he  used  the  USB  and
computer to view pornography with his wife in their bedroom, but he did not disclose that
he also used it while alone on a business trip, or that he searched personal ads, used
email to arrange liasons while traveling, or that he introduced the prohibited USB device
into a closed work area in violation of security regulations and company policy. (GE 2.)
He acknowledged in his interview that he was aware that inserting his personal USB into
the computer to view pornography was prohibited, and claimed, contrary to his hearing
testimony,  that  he  did  so  “many  times  in  a  month  to  two  months  timeframe.”  (GE  2.)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  his  misuse  of  the  computer  violated  company  policy  and
took full responsibility for  his actions. He  claimed he had a “terrible  lapse of judgment”
and became “impulsive.” He explained that he did not disclose his conduct on his SCA
because  he  interpreted  the  question  (SCA  question  27)  as  strictly  related  to  violating
“security policies.” (GE 2.)
Applicant disputes that he was “suspended” and resigned in lieu of termination or
by mutual agreement. Applicant testified that he was not formally suspended, rather he
was simply on paid administrative leave. He also testified that he did not resign by mutual
agreement  or  in  lieu  of  termination  because  he  resigned  the  day  before  the  DRB  was
scheduled  to  meet,  and  he  was  not  told  he  would  be  fired.  However,  in  his  PSI,  he
admitted that he was “suspended with pay for a week.” (GE 2.) He further explained in
his  PSI  that  he  “was  told  that  he  was  being  suspended  for  [a]  week  pending  the
disciplinary board’s decision. [Applicant] went home on paid suspension and after a week,
13
he resigned. He was not told he would be fired but he was afraid of having his security
clearance revoked by the disciplinary board.” (GE 2.) Applicant did not change or correct
this language when he verified the PSI’s accuracy in response to an interrogatory.
In SCA question 13A regarding Applicant’s employment history, he was asked for
the reason he left employment. Applicant answered that he “resigned to take position at
[another defense contractor].” (GE 1. p.14.) In addition, when asked if he left employment
by “mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct” or “following notice
of  unsatisfactory  performance,”  Applicant  answered  “no.”  (GE  1.  p.14.)  However,
Applicant did not have a new position with his current employer at the time he resigned.
(Tr. 48.) He testified that after resigning, he contacted a program director with another
government contractor whom Applicant met while conducting business with his previous
employer.  According  to  the  program  director  that  conducted  the  interview,  Applicant
disclosed that he made a “personal mistake and had inappropriately used an unclassified
[company]-owned  laptop  computer.  As  a  result  of  that  incident,  he  was  personally
embarrassed  and felt that the incident would have lasting negative impact on his ability
for  career advancement” with the company. (AE E.) The new employer concluded that
Applicant had a “significant lapse in judgment and that it violated [his company’s] policy,
it  was  not  a  security  infraction.”  Applicant  was  hired  in  the  summer  of  2017,  and  is
currently  employed  in  substantially  the  same  classified  work  he  performed  with  his
previous  employer.  The  evidence  is  unclear  as  to  what,  if  any,  other  information  was
provided to the new employer regarding Applicant’s previous employment conduct, and
on  what  basis  it  determined  that  Applicant’s  actions  did  not  qualify  as  a  “security
infraction.”
In his PSI, Applicant acknowledged his lack of judgment when using the company
computer,  and  attributed  it  his  “ignorance  and  careless  actions.”  (GE  2.)  He  took
accountability for his “mistake” and learned a lifelong lesson. He avers that he hopes to
put the incident behind him, but asserts that use of the USB device in the computer “did
not  put  the  company’s  security  at  risk  and  no  data  or  PII  was  lost.  (GE  2.)  Of  note,
Applicant continued to under report the extent of his use of the USB and company laptop
when he completed an “Affidavit of [Applicant]” in April 2020. In the affidavit, he admitted
to violating company rules by viewing the pornography with his wife, but failed to disclose
his  use  while  on  travel.  (AE  J.)  He  also  continues  to  deny  that  he  has  breached  any
security  protocols  by  stating  “for  all  of  my  19  year  career,  I  have  not  had  single  [sic]
infraction or incident involving any security issues.”
In a review by Applicant’s former employer, they noted in a letter dated June 11,
2020 that:
When [the company] representatives interviewed [Applicant],  he admitted
to viewing the materials using his [company] asset and understanding that
such  actions  were  prohibited.  As  such,  [Applicant]  was  placed  on  an
indefinite  disciplinary  suspension  pending  formal  determination  by  the
Disciplinary Review Board (DRB). [Applicant] was offered the opportunity to
provide  a  written  statement,  which  he  did.  In  that  statement,  [Applicant]
14
admits to the misconduct,  stating, ‘I am not attempting to defend or justify
my actions in  any way . . .’ and, ‘I  know  I’m in  no position to ask for favors
and  will accept whatever decision [the DRB] reache[es].’ On June 23, 2017,
the  date  the  DRB  was  scheduled  to  meet,   [Applicant]   tendered  his
resignation.
In  light  of  the  nature  of  the  substantiated  misconduct,   [Applicant’s]  Top
Secret  clearance, and  resignation while on a disciplinary suspension, [the
company] appropriately coded  [Applicant’s] resignation as a ‘resignation in
lieu  of  termination.’  Such  is  consistent  with  [the  company’s]  policy  and
procedures, and  its obligation as a federal  contractor  and  applicable law.
(AE L.)
Applicant’s current  employer fully supports him,  has promoted him  to manage a
highly-classified sub-product line that generates $125 million in annual sales, highlighted
his accomplishments, trustworthiness, and importance to the company and to the U.S.
national defense industry. The employer notes that they do not have another leader of
Applicant’s caliber waiting in the wings to replace him. (AE E.)
Likewise, Applicant’s former coworkers expressed their strong support for him and
discussed the harm that would occur to his new employer and the Government if Applicant
does not retain his security clearance and continue work on important, highly-classified
projects. (AE F, G.) Applicant’s  spouse also supports him and acknowledged that their
use of the company computer to view pornography together was an “egregious error.”
(AE H.)
