Applicant  is a 60-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He  has worked for
his current employer since July 2020. He  seeks to retain a security clearance, which  he
has held  with  some  breaks since about  1991.  He  earned a bachelor’s degree  in   1982
and  a master’s degree  in  2003.  He is married  with  two children.  (Transcript (Tr.) at  34-
35, 37-40; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  traffic  offenses  and   workplace  problems,   including  a
security violation and  multiple terminations. Between 2006  and  February 2019, he was
cited  for   at  least  14  moving  violations  in   two  states.   Eleven  of  the  citations  were  for
speeding.  His  driving   privileges   were  suspended   for   90  days  in   2011.   (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 5, 6)
In  September  2013,  Applicant  took  a  classified  document  home  without
authorization  from  one  site  and  transported  it  to  another  classified  site  the  next  day
(SOR  ¶  1.a).  The  security  violation  report  indicated  the  document  was  marked
“Secret/NOFORN.”  Applicant did not report the incident until November 2013 when he
was  discussing the  document  with  the  person who created  the  document.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 3, 4; AE B) During the investigation of the incident, he stated:
Since I had  no office  space  at [Site A] and  was still  getting settled in  a new
office  at  [Site B]  with no [redacted] computer assigned to  me  yet. I took the
document  in  my  locked  briefcase   home  overnight.   I  knew   this  was  not
proper protocol, but I felt the risk was mitigated since it was locked  in  my
briefcase.  (GE 3)
Applicant  stated  that  the  document  was  about  ten   pages  long,  and   only  one   or
two   pages   were  classified.  He   justified  his   actions  by  stating  that  the   document  was
improperly marked, without a classified  cover sheet, and that the information should not
have  been classified because  it was in  the public domain and readily available through
the Internet. He  also stated that his locked briefcase was the functional  equivalent of a
courier bag.  He  has never had  a  courier card to transport classified information, and  he
somewhat  reluctantly  admitted   that  he  knew   the  document  was   classified.  He   was
terminated from  his employment in  November 2013 because of the incident  (SOR ¶ 2.f).
(Tr. at 12-15, 23-33, 41-59, 76-79; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE B, C)
As  mitigation  for  the   incident,  Applicant   asserted  that  there   were  inadequate
instructions  for   his  team  on  how  to  deal  with  courier   processes;  the  document  was
locked in  his briefcase in  his kitchen overnight,  so there was no compromise  of data; it
has  been  seven  years  since  the   incident,  with  no  additional  incidents;   and   it   does  not
constitute  a  pattern,   therefore  the  incident  was  “inadvertent.”   When  pressed,  he
admitted his actions were not “inadvertent.” He  has received additional security training,
most  recently in  July 2020.  (Tr. at 37-38,  42-43, 47-48, 77-79; Applicant’s response to
SOR; AE B, C)
Applicant has a problematic employment history with numerous employers. The
SOR alleges that Applicant received an incident warning letter from an employer for an
incident  in  July  2015,  and  that  he  was  terminated  from  eight  jobs  between  2004  and
2018.  Most,  if  not  all,  of  the  information  about  Applicant’s  employment  history  came
from  him  in  his  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86),  during  his
background interview,  in response to interrogatories, in his SOR response, and during
his testimony.
Applicant was terminated from a job in July 2004 for unsatisfactory performance
(SOR ¶ 2.a). He wrote that he “was terminated after [his] manager missed an important
meeting  because  he  had  something  more  important  to  do  at  his  home.”  Applicant
explained that his manager could not attend a meeting and the customer was unhappy
with how Applicant handled the meeting. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant was terminated from another job in March 2005 for not complying with
his manager’s directions (SOR ¶ 2.b). He  wrote that he “was laid off  from  this position
for doing too much work.” He stated that he took an action at the request of a customer
after  his  manager  told  him  not  to  take  that  type  of  action.  Applicant  stated  that  he
thought  it  was  acceptable  because  it  was  at  the  customer’s  request.  (Tr.  at  73-74;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant  lost  a job in July 2008  (SOR  ¶ 2.c).  The reason for  the termination  is
not in the record. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant was terminated from a job in November 2010 for failing to complete a
customer-requested  task  (SOR  ¶  2.d).  He  wrote  that  he  “was  framed  by  an  impatient
requestor who could not get his change processed fast enough.” (Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant’s employment was terminated in about December 2012 for sending an
e-mail to a client that was critical of the client. (SOR ¶ 2.e). He wrote that his employer
“let  [him]  go  for  a  silly  email  that  the  customer  took  offense  to  about  spelling  and
grammar.”  Applicant  stated  that  the  client’s  e-mail  was  not  well  written  and  did  not
convey  the  message  the  client  wanted  to  convey.  Applicant’s  reply  e-mail  pointed  out
that  the  client’s  e-mail  was  hard  to  understand  and  poorly  worded.  (Tr.  at  69-73;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant  received  an  incident  warning  letter  from  an  employer  in  about  July
2015 for raising his voice and chastising co-workers for not displaying their badges, and
for  raising  his  voice  and  behaving  aggressively  toward  a  co-worker  (SOR  ¶  2.g).  He
stated that he did not intentionally behave aggressively toward the co-worker (Tr. at 70)
Applicant was terminated from his job with the above employer in about February
2016  for  failing  to  comply  with  directions  (SOR  ¶  2.h).  He  wrote  that  he  was
“[t]erminated  for  doing  too  much  work  and  doing  unneeded  work  by  helping  [another
employee] learn a new skill.” (Tr. at 69-70; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant’s  employment  was  terminated  in  October  2016  after  his  security
clearance  was  unable  to  be  processed  because  of  the  2013  security  incident  (SOR  ¶
2.i). (Tr. at 35; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant  was  terminated  from  a  job  in  about  February  2018  for  lack  of
professionalism (SOR ¶ 2.j). He stated that he was working at a federal building, and he
had  to  be  escorted  everywhere  because  he  did  not  have  a  Common  Access  Card
(CAC). He was observed walking to the front of the building without an escort. He stated
that he was leaving the building, and he was told he did not require an escort when he
was leaving. (Tr. at 65-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2).
Applicant’s  father  testified  that  Applicant  is  of  the  highest  character  with  strong
morals,  and  he  is  active  in  his  church.  Applicant  submitted  documents  attesting  to  his
excellent  job  performance.  He  is  praised  for  his  reliability,  attention  to  detail,
commitment, adaptability, professionalism, responsibility, and dedication. (Tr. at 81-84;
AE E, F)
