In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  admitted  in  part  and  denied  in  part  both  of  the  SOR
allegations,  with  explanations.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  is  single,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He
has  worked  for  his  current  defense  contractor-employee  since  2009.  He  has  held  a
security  clearance  since  2004  and  has  never  had  a  security  incident  or  violation.  He
holds  master’s  degrees  in  electrical  engineering  and  business  administration.  He  has
owned a home since December 2016. (Tr. at 108-111, 139; GE 1; AE B)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant:  (1)  was  diagnosed  with  Schizoaffective  Disorder
(depressive type, with catatonia) and Non-adherence to Medical Treatment (by history)
in August 2019 by a licensed clinical psychologist (Dr. 2), which are conditions that may
impair  judgment,  stability,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness;  and  (2)  has  received  mental
health treatment since February 2010 from a psychiatrist (Dr. 1) and that in May 2017,
this  provider  indicated  that  Applicant  had  a  condition  that  could  impair  judgment,
reliability,  or  ability  to  properly  safeguard  classified  information.  The  provider  further
stated  that  Applicant  has  psychotic  symptoms  if  he  stops  taking  his  medication  and
gave a prognosis of “guarded to fair.” (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a).
In 2002, Applicant was hospitalized for the first time for a mental health issue. He
was  working  in  a  state  away  from  where  his  parents  lived  and  an  acquaintance  died,
which caused Applicant to have a severe depressive episode. This caused his parents
to  go  to  Applicant’s  out-of-state  location  and  see  to  his  hospitalization.  Applicant
described  his  actions  at  that  time  as  being  depressed,  not  talking,  and  “just  shutting
down”.  No  contemporaneous  medical  records  are  available  to  describe  this  incident,
however,  later  medical  records  from  2009  and  2012  refer  to  the  2002  incident  when
describing  Applicant’s  medical  history  with  the  information  usually  coming  from  either
Applicant  or  his  parents.  The  records  refer  to  a  psychotic  incident  occurring  in  2002.
(Note: None of the previous medical incidents in 2002, herein described, or in 2009 and
2012, described below, were specifically alleged in the SOR, therefore, I will not use this
evidence  for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  I  will  consider  it  in  the  application  of  any
mitigating  conditions,  whole-person  factors,  and  in  assessing  Applicant’s  credibility.)
After  Applicant’s  hospitalization,  he  returned  to  his  parents’  home  state  where  he
remained while finishing his bachelor’s degree in 2004 and his master’s degree in 2006.
Applicant  also  saw  a  psychiatrist  for  approximately  three  years  and  was  prescribed
Zyprexa,  Geodon,  and  Ativan.  No  diagnosis  or  prognosis  was  contained  in  the  record
from  this  time  frame.  Applicant  testified  that  he  came  off  the  prescribed  medicine  in
2005 because he was not seeing a doctor at the time and there was no requirement to
stay  on  the  medication.  In  July  2009,  Applicant  was  employed  at  his  current  location,
which required a move to a different state. (Tr. at 121-127; GE 1, 3, 4 (p. 40 of pp. 101)
In  December  2009,  Applicant  experienced  another  psychological  incident  that
resulted in a hospitalization. Records indicate that Applicant was seen standing outside
his home, unmoving, for approximately two hours. Medical personnel were alerted and
he  was  hospitalized  where  he  presented  with  “thought  blocking,  disorganized  thought
process, paranoia, and denial about his condition.” His admission diagnosis was: mood
disorder  NOS,  a  rule  out  of  major  depressive  disorder,  recurrent,  with  catatonic
features,  and  a rule out  of  schizophrenia.  (See:  The criteria  set  forth in the Diagnostic
Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders,  Fourth  Edition  (DSM-IV)).  At  that  time,  he  was
prescribed  Zyprexa  and  Ativan.  He  was  hospitalized  for  approximately  one  week  and
upon discharge he returned with his parents to their home state where he remained for
about  two  months.  His  discharge  diagnosis  was:  bipolar  disorder,  depressed,  versus
major  depressive  disorder  with  psychotic  features  and  catatonia,  most  possibly
depressive disorder, severe, recurrent, with psychotic features. After his hospitalization,
he began therapy with two doctors (their specialties were not indicated in the record). In
either  late  2009  or  early  2010,  Applicant  began  seeing  his  current  psychiatrist  (Dr.  1)
every three months for medication management. (GE 2, 3, 4 (p. 36-38 of pp. 101); AE
A)
Applicant  testified  that  leading  up  to  his  2009  hospitalization  he  was  unable  to
sleep  for  three  days.  As  a  result,  he  was  not  functioning  well.  He  confirmed  that  he
stood outside his home for some time until a neighbor saw him and called for help. He
recalls being admitted to the hospital and being diagnosed with a bipolar disorder and
depressive disorder. He was not on medication at the time of this incident, but during his
this
hospitalization  he  was  prescribed  Geodon  and  Ativan.  Sometime  after
hospitalization, in early 2010, he began seeing his current psychiatrist, Dr. 1. During the
early part of his treatment by Dr. 1, he was seen more than once every three months.
Now, the frequency of his appointments are about once every three months. He went to
live with his parents for about two months after his hospitalization. He then returned to
work  with  no  repercussions  from  his  hospitalization  or  his  lengthy  absence.  (Tr.  127-
130; GE 3; AE A.
In April 2012, Applicant was admitted to the hospital after a visit from his parents
who  found  him  to  be  acting  in  an  odd  manner  and  took  him  to  see  his  doctor.  It  was
discovered  that  Applicant  had  not  been  to  work  for  over  a  month  and  had  lost  a
significant  amount  of  weight.  He  also  had  stopped  taking  his  prescribed  medicine  in
May 2011. He remained hospitalized for ten days and was given a discharge diagnosis
of:  major  depression  with  psychotic  features,  schizophrenia  also  remains  part  of
differential,  and  general  anxiety  disorder.  He  was  prescribed  Ziprasidone,  Citalopram,
Buspirone, and Ativan upon his discharge. During his testimony, Applicant admitted that
he  stopped  taking  his  medication  because  he  thought  he  could  manage  his  condition
without the medication and because the medication led to significant weight gain. While
he continued to see Dr. 1 before this hospitalization he did not recall if he told Dr.1 that
he  stopped  taking  his  medication.  He  described  his  behavior  which  led  to  his
hospitalization  as  “shutting  down.”  This  resulted  in  him  not  going  to  work,  not
communicating  with  other  people,  and  just  staying  in  his  house.  He  believes  the  only
trigger  for  this  hospitalization  was  that  he  stopped  taking  his  medication.  He  was  put
back  on  medication  during  and  after  this  hospitalization.  He  again  returned  to  work
without  any  repercussions  from  his  earlier  missed  time.  Between  2012  and  2014,  he
was not 100 percent compliant with taking his medication because he experienced side
effects from it. Dr. 1 made an adjustment to his medication in 2014 and since then he
has  been  100  percent  compliant  with  taking  the  medication,  which  at  this  time  only
includes taking Abilify for his mental health conditions. (Tr. at 130-135; GE 3, GE 4 (pp.
56-59, 91-92 of 101); AE A)
As  stated  above,  none  of  Applicant’s  three  hospitalizations  were  specifically
alleged in the SOR. I have described the uses I can make of this evidence (credibility,
application  of  mitigating  conditions,  and  the  whole-person  factors).  I  will  also  consider
the evidence as background information as it may help explain or amplify the diagnoses
that have been alleged in the SOR.
In May 2017, as part of Applicant’s background investigation, an investigator sent
Dr. 1 a questionnaire that asked the provider to answer “yes” or “no” to the question of
whether the Applicant had a condition that could impair his judgment, reliability, or ability
to protect classified information. Dr. 1 answered “yes.” Dr. 1 was also asked to state the
nature of the condition, which she stated as: “He has psychotic symptoms if he goes off
of his medication.” Dr. 1 stated that his prognosis was: “guarded to fair.” The period of
treatment was listed as February 23, 2010, to the present. As part of his answer to the
SOR,  Applicant  included  a  letter  by  Dr.  1  from  January  2020.  In  this  letter,  Dr.  1
described  her  treatment  of  Applicant  since  February  2010,  with  his  last  appointment
coming in January 2020; that he has been psychiatrically stable since September 2014;
and that he has been compliant in taking his medication and making every appointment
since September 2014. (GE2; Answer to SOR (See attachment labeled Exhibit A))
In  furtherance  of  Applicant’s  background  investigation,  the  CAF  contracted  to
have  Dr.  2  perform  a  psychological  evaluation  of  Applicant.  The  examination  was
conducted in August 2019 and Dr. 2’s report was completed in September 2019 (GE 3).
Dr.  2  also  testified  at  Applicant’s  hearing.  Dr.  2  is  a  Ph.D.  (Doctor  of  philosophy)  of
clinical  psychology.  Her  CV  is  part  of  the  record.  (GE  5)  I  find  that  Dr.  2  is  a  duly
qualified mental health professional approved by the U.S. Government. (Tr. 19-22)
As part of her evaluation, Dr. 2 reviewed Applicant’s medical records, conducted
a  clinical  interview  with  him,  made  clinical  observations,  and  administered  the
personality  assessment  inventory  (PAI)  test.  Dr.  2  observed  that  Applicant  arrived  for
his  appointment  on  time  and  appeared  neat  and  clean.  He  seemed  relaxed,  with  no
observable  signs  of  anxiety  or  psychomotor  agitation.  Dr.  2  believed  his  insight  and
memory  were  poor  because  he  denied  aspects  of  his  mental  health  history  believing
that he had a tendency to minimize the severity of his mental health condition by stating
that  it  was  “just  depression.”  He  was  respectful  and  cooperative  throughout  the
evaluation and there were no attempts at deception. Dr. 2 noted that on one aspect of
the  PAI  test,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  was  portraying  himself  in  an  unrealistically
favorable  light.  Dr.  2  further  stated  that  Applicant’s  inconsistent  medication  adherence
and  his  ongoing  denial  about  the  severity  of  his  condition  places  him  at  an  increased
risk  for  future  relapse.  Dr.  2  stated  that  his  diagnostic  profile  was:  Schizoaffective
Disorder (depressive type, with catatonia) and non-adherence to medical treatment (by
history).  Dr.  2  also  noted  that  the  risk  of  future  psychotic  episodes  can  be  mitigated,
provided Applicant continues to take his prescribed medicine. She admitted that records
indicate he has been medically compliant since 2014 and that there is no evidence of a
psychotic episode since that time. Dr. 2 read Dr. 3’s evaluation report, but nothing in it
caused  her  to  change  her  opinion  about  Applicant’s  lack  of  insight  that  could  result  in
his future non adherence to taking his medication. (Tr. at 21-24, 27, 43; GE 3, 5)
In  August  2020,  Applicant  sought  and  participated
independent
psychological  evaluation  conducted  by  Dr.  3.  Dr.  3  prepared  a  resulting  evaluation
report  in  October  2020.  (AE  A)  Dr.  3  also  testified  at  Applicant’s  hearing.  Dr.  3  is  a
PsyD.  (Doctor  of  psychology)  of  clinical  and  forensic  psychology.  (Generally,  Ph.D.
programs emphasize research, while PsyD. programs emphasize clinical work) Her CV
is part of the record. (AE C) I find that Dr. 3 is a duly qualified mental health professional
and because she has contracted with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and
several state agencies to conduct psychological evaluations she is also approved by the
U.S. Government. (Tr. 61-64; AE A, C)
in  an
As  part  of  her  evaluation  of  Applicant,  Dr.  3  conducted  a  clinical  interview,  a
mental  status  exam,  a  competency  evaluation,  a  psychological  assessment,  records
review,  and  a  series  of  psychological  testing,  including:  the  Reynolds  Adaptable
Intelligence  Test  (RAIT),  Millon  Clinical  Multiaxial  Inventory  (MCMI-IV),  Beck  Anxiety
Inventory  (BAI),  Beck  Depression  Inventory  (BDI-II),  Adult  Substance  Abuse  Subtle
Screening  Inventory-4  (SASSI-4).  Dr.  3’s  evaluation  report  traces  a  very  similar
psychological  history  for  Applicant  as  did  Dr.  2.  Some  differences  exist.  Dr.  3  pointed
out  that  Applicant  has  not  been  hospitalized  since  2012  and  that  he  has  not  received
any reprimands or discipline from his employer. Dr. 3 also pointed out that Applicant has
not  been  violent  or  displayed  any  abnormal  behavior  since  2012.  An  evaluation  of
Applicant’s  MCMI  test  results  showed,  inter  alia,  an  appropriate  amount  of  self-
disclosure  and  that  no  defensive  test-taking  attitudes  were  apparent.  Applicant  was
cooperative  throughout  the  evaluation.  Dr.  3  stated,  “The  personality  assessment  was
consistent  with  his  presentation  which  is  an  individual  who  is  guarded,  shy,  mostly
introverted  and  has  low  self-esteem.”  She  also  responded  to  Dr.  2’s  point  that  future
psychotic episodes can be mitigated by continuing medication compliance by explaining
that Applicant’s level of intelligence, positive family support, reliability, responsibility, and
work-related  compliance  are  also  mitigating  factors.  Dr.  3  related  that  Applicant’s
diagnosis  was  a  schizoaffective  disorder  (by  history).  She  also  offered  a  strong
prognosis  for  Applicant  based  upon  the  level  of  support  he  receives  from  his  parents
and  his  continued  compliance  with  taking  his  medication.  Dr.  3  also  opined  that
Applicant accepts his disorder and the need to stay on his medication and that the last
six to eight years of staying on his medication is evidence of his acceptance. (Tr. at 65-
76, 93, 98, 101; AE A)
Applicant testified that he realizes he has a mental health condition and takes it
seriously. He also realizes he must continue to take his medication. To insure taking his
medication,  he  has  developed  a  regular  schedule  for  taking  it,  which  he  follows.  He
knows how important taking his medication is. If he stopped taking his medication, his
symptoms  would  recur,  which  could  put  him  back into  the  hospital.  He  did  not  like his
hospital experiences and wants to avoid those in the future. He believes his taking the
medication now is different than it was before when he stopped because now he has to
take other medications, not mental health-related, and he accepts taking medication as
a  way  to  promote  his  overall  health  and  wellbeing.  The  only  mental  health  medication
he currently takes  is Abilify  and  he  takes  it  once  in  the  evening  as he has done since
2014. (Tr. at 112-116, 141-142)
