Applicant  is 27  years old.  She is single and has no children.  She obtained her
undergraduate  degree  in  2016.  She  is  employed  as  a  systems  engineer  and  has
worked  for  her  current  employer  since  April  2017.  (Tr.  26).  Applicant  completed  her
latest security clearance application (SCA) on February 4, 2019. (GX 3)
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana, with varying
frequency,  from  about  October  2011  until  about  April  2018  (1.a);  that  she  used
marijuana  while  granted  access  to  classified  information  (1.b)  and  that  she  intends  to
use  marijuana  in  the  future  (1.c).  The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that  Applicant
falsified  her  November  20,  2017  SCA  when  she  answered  “No”  to  Section  23:  which
asks  whether  she  possessed  or  used  illegal  drugs  in  the  previous  seven  years  (2.a).
Applicant admitted the allegations under 1.a and 1.b, and she denied 1.c and 2.a.
Applicant testified that she participated in the professional development program
and rotated positions in the company that she is currently employed with for about four
years. (Tr.15) She elaborated that she had a “really good understanding of the defense
industry  and  expand[ed]  her  knowledge.”  (Tr.  15)  She  explained  that  she  is  a  natural
leader and has been a good example for  women.”  (Tr. 17) Applicant admitted that she
took  initial  training  for  security,  but  she  could  not  recall  training  on  how  to  complete  a
security  clearance  application.  (Tr.  18)  It  was  when  she  received  the  SOR  that  she
realized that she had  “triggered” the security concerns under Guidelines H and  E. She
acknowledged she received counseling from her attorney.
Applicant  began  smoking  marijuana  in  2011  when  she  was  in  college.  (GX  3)
She  admitted  this  in  her  subject  interview  and  stated  that  she  used  it  to  calm  her
anxiety.  The  usage  was  approximately  twice  a  week.  She  admitted  that  she  used  the
marijuana  in  California  because  it  was  legal  in  that  state.  (GX  3)  When  she  came  to
Maryland, she knew it was illegal under Maryland law, and she stopped using marijuana
in  April  2018.  In  her  March  2019,  subject  interview  Applicant  stated  that  she  did  use
marijuana  while  holding  her  security  clearance  in  2017.  (GX  4)  She  denied  this
allegation at the hearing, stating that she did not understand the question. She said she
had  a  security  clearance,  but  she  did  not  actually  have  access  to  any  classified
information.  (Tr. 27) She stated if it became federally legalized, she would continue to
use marijuana.  In 2019, she had never sought treatment for anxiety.
At  the  hearing  Applicant  presented  a  multitude  of  reasons  why  she  used
marijuana,  which  did  not  conform  to  her  answers  in  her  2019  subject  interview.  After
receiving  the  SOR  and  seeking  advice  of  counsel,  she  explained  that  the  use  of
marijuana  was  due  to  her  high  levels  of  anxiety,  family  background,  financial  issues,
and  stressful  relationship.  (AX  C).  She  stopped  associating  with  people  who  use
marijuana,  obtained  an  evaluation,  and  signed  an  intent  not  to  use  marijuana  in  the
future.  (Tr.  23)  She  also  stated  that  she  is  extremely  sorry.  (Tr.  25)  At  one  point,  she
stated that she did not understand the difference between federal and state law despite
her security training.
In  October  2020,  Applicant  obtained  an  evaluation  from  a  psychologist  who
concluded  Applicant  did  not  appear  to  be  in  acute  emotional  distress.  (AX  E)  She
admitted to episodic bouts of anxiety or depression. In that report it was recommended
that  she  establish  and  maintain  outpatient  treatment  for  psychiatry  and  psychiatric
treatment  since  her  relocation  to  Maryland.  (AX  E)  The  psychologist  noted  that
Applicant has an inclination toward adventuresome behavior and risk taking which might
suggest  a  higher  propensity  to  alcohol  and  drug  abuse  when  compared  to  sample
norms. (AX E)
Applicant completed a SCA in November 2017. (GX 2) She did not disclose her
use  of  illegal  drugs  and  answered  “No”  to  Section  23,  which  asked  whether  she
possessed or used illegal drugs in the last seven years. In her answer, she denied the
allegation  stating  that  there  were  many  parts  to  the  application,  and  it  took  her  a  long
time to complete it. She stated that she asked her peer and no one mentioned that she
should list the marijuana use. (Tr. 29)  She stated at the hearing that she answered, no,
to illegal drug use but she knew she had used marijuana and countered that by saying
she did not read the question thoroughly. (Tr. 30) Applicant also blamed it on her belief
that  using  marijuana  in  California  was  not  illegal  because  marijuana  use  was  legal
under  California  state  law.  She  stated  that  from  a  federal  perspective  she  did  not
understand that marijuana was illegal. This is hard to find credible given her work in the
defense field and her program training. (Tr. 32-33)
Applicant changed her answer in her February 4, 2019 SCA, with respect to drug
use in the  past  seven years.  She said she  spoke to some  people,  but  did not  think to
check with her facility security officer (FSO) for advice.  (Tr. 35-36) She elaborated that
she answered she would use marijuana in the future, but that was before she engaged
a  psychologist  or  attorney.  (Tr.  37)  She  also  stated  that  she  was  confused  when  she
received her security clearance.
The  Government,  in  a  post-hearing  submission  presented  proof  that  Applicant
received  her  security  clearance  on  December  12,  2017.  Applicant  was  adamant  that
she  would  no  longer  use  marijuana  but  stated  that  the  fear  of  losing  her  security
clearance really made her stop smoking marijuana. (Tr. 49)  The Applicant submitted a
clarification  stating  that  some  peers  told  her  not  to  report  the  marijuana  use  on  the
second application, and she was confused. (AX F) She did not provide the names of the
peers that gave her this advice.
Applicant  submitted eight  declarations concerning  her  good character  and each
attested to her reliability, trustworthiness, and ability. (GX D)
