Applicant, 29, has worked for his current employer since June 2018. He completed
a  security  clearance  application,  his  first,  in  September  2018.  At  the  time  Applicant
completed  the  application  he  was  unmarried.  However,  he  listed  one  foreign  national
contact,  an  ex-girlfriend  with  whom  he  kept  in  touch.  The  DOD  CAF  did  not  find  this
contact  to  be  of  security  significance.  During  his  January  2019  interview  with  a
background investigator, Applicant disclosed additional foreign contacts to include three
friends from Israel and one friend from Turkey. These relationships are alleged in SOR
¶¶ 1.c through 1.f. (GE 1 -2)
Turkey
During  the  course  of  obtaining  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  international  relations,
Applicant participated in a study abroad program in Turkey in 2010. During that trip he
developed a friendship with a Turkish citizen. This relationship is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d.
When  Applicant  returned  to  Turkey  in  2013  to  teach  English,  Applicant  lived  with  his
friend’s family while he looked for an apartment. Applicant’s friend completed his required
military  service,  but  is  no  longer  affiliated  with  the  Turkish  military  or  government.  He
currently  works  in  the  tourism  industry.  The  two  men  communicate  at  least  once  per
month by an electronic messaging application. Applicant last traveled to Turkey in 2015.
His friend has not traveled to the United States. (Tr. 131, 141-144; GE 1; AE B-C)
Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  a  multiparty  parliamentary  system  and  a
president. The U.S.-Turkey friendship dates to 1831. Turkey is an important U.S. security
partner and has been a valued North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) ally since 1952.
Turkey is a leader in the NATO-led Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. Turkey also
is a vital member of the Counter-ISIL Coalition.  Turkey continues to face a significant
terrorist  threat  from  both  external  and  home-grown  sources.  The  current  U.S.  State
Department travel warning for Turkey reflects an increased risk from terrorist groups and
the  potential  for  violence  against  U.S.  citizens  due  to  an  increase  in  anti-American
rhetoric. In the aftermath of the July 2016 coup attempt, the U.S. State Department has
also  reported  a  number  of  significant  human  rights  problems  in  Turkey.  Of  particular
concern are reports, including arbitrary killings, suspicious deaths of persons in custody,
forced  disappearances,  torture,  and  the  arbitrary  arrests  and  detention  of  tens  of
thousands of persons, including opposition members of parliament, lawyers, journalists,
foreign  citizens,  and  Turkish  nationals  with  purported  claims  to  “terrorist”  groups  or
engaging in peaceful legitimate speech. (HE VI)
Israel
Applicant  returned  from  Turkey   in   2014  to   begin   a  master’s  degree  program  in
International  Affairs at a U.S. university.  During his studies, he befriended a classmate,  a
U.S. citizen, who subsequently immigrated  to Israel  in  2017.  This relationship is alleged
in  SOR ¶ 1.e.  Applicant’s friend serves in  the Israeli Defense  Forces. The  two men have
seen each other twice since their graduation in  2016 at informal  class reunions, the most
recent being in September 2019.  They maintained monthly contact through an electronic
messaging application  from 2016 until February 2020,  when Applicant unilaterally ended
the relationship, out of concern that the relationship would  adversely affect  his ability his
to  gain  access  to  classified  information.  Applicant  admits  that  his  friend  is  aware  of
Applicant’s  employment with a  federal  contracting company and  that Applicant  works on
a  military  installation.  According  to  Applicant,  the  friend  does  not  know   the  details  of
Applicant’s job or his clearance status. (Tr. 136-138, 175; AE B-C)
While participating in a study-abroad program in Israel in 2015, Applicant met a
woman at a restaurant with whom he became friends. This relationship is alleged in SOR
¶ 1.c. Before their meeting, the woman had completed her compulsory military service
and was working as a human resources professional at a private company. He has not
had in-person contact  with  her  since 2015,  but  the  two maintained contact  through an
electronic messaging application a few times per year. According to Applicant, they have
not had any contact in over one year. Applicant described the relationship as casual and
superficial. The woman is not aware of Applicant’s employment with a federal contracting
company or his attempt to obtain a security clearance. (Tr. 134-136, 175-177; AE B-C)
Applicant also admitted to having another friend, also a citizen of Israel, who was
employed  by  the  Israeli  Trade  Mission  in  the  city  where  Applicant  resides.  This
relationship  is  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.f.  The  two  men  met  through  friends  and  typically
interacted  in   group  settings.  Applicant  admits  that  the  man  knew  of  his  status  as  the
employee of a federal contracting company, and  that he worked on a military installation.
According  to Applicant, the man did not know  the details of Applicant’s job or his clearance
status.   Applicant’s  last  contact   with  the  man  was  in   November  2019,  when  the  man
returned  to  Israel. Applicant  has learned through mutual  friends that the  man no longer
works for the Israeli Trade Mission. (Tr. 138-140; AE B-C)
Israel  is  a  parliamentary  democracy  with  a  unicameral  parliament  and  a  prime
minister, who exercises extensive executive power. The United States and Israel have
maintained  diplomatic  relations  with  Israel  since  1949  and  have  always  had  strong
bilateral relations. The United States extends substantial foreign aid to Israel and provides
significant  military  support  as  well.  The  United  States  is  also  Israel’s  largest  trading
partner.  Israel  cooperates  closely  with  the  United  States  and  other  countries  on
counterterrorism issues. Despite its close relationship with the United States, Israel has
been involved in numerous instances of illegal export, or attempted illegal export, of U.S.
restricted and classified technology and products, including dual-use technology. Israel
generally respects the rights of its citizens. When human-rights violations have occurred,
they have involved Palestinian detainees or Arab-Israelis. Terrorist suicide bombings are
a continuing threat in Israel, and U.S. citizens in Israel are advised to be cautious. Israel
considers U.S. citizens with Israeli citizenship or who are eligible for Israeli citizenship to
be Israeli citizens for immigration and other legal purposes. Dual U.S.-Israeli citizens must
enter and depart Israel using Israeli passports. U.S. citizens visiting Israel who also have
or  may  have  Israeli  citizenship  have  been  subjected  to  prolonged  questioning  and
thorough searches by Israeli authorities upon entry or departure. (HE V)
Syria
In July 2019, Applicant married a naturalized U.S. citizen from Syria. In response
to  interrogatories  propounded  by  DOHA,  Applicant  provided  information  about  his
parents-in-law  and  sister-in-law  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Syria.  These
relationships are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.
The   Syrian  Arab  Republic  is  ruled  by  an  authoritarian  regime  dominated  by  the
Socialist  Ba’ath  Party  currently  engaged  in  a  full-scale   civil  war   with  the  armed  Syrian
opposition.  Since  1979,  the  United  States  has  designated  Syria  a  State  Sponsor  of
Terrorism due to its continuing political and military support to various terrorist groups as
well  as  its   support   of  the  Iranian  government.   Over  the  past   decade,  the  Syrian
government  has demonstrated a permissive attitude towards al-Qa’ida and  other terrorist
groups’  foreign fighter  facilitation  efforts during the Iraq conflict that fed the  growth of al-
Qa’ida, the Islamic State of Iraq and  Syria (ISIS), and  affiliated terrorist networks inside
Syria.  In  addition,  the  Syrian   government  has  engaged   in   numerous  human  rights
violations to  include arbitrary killings and  detentions, the use of chemical  weapons against
civilians,  enforced  disappearances,  torture,  arbitrary   and   unlawful  interference   with
privacy,  and  undue  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement.  During  2018,   government-
linked paramilitary groups reportedly engaged in  frequent violations and  abuses, including
massacres, indiscriminate killings, kidnappings of civilians, arbitrary detentions, and  rape
as  a  war  tactic.   Government-affiliated  militia  repeatedly  targeted  civilians.  The   Syrian
government  took no steps  to  investigate,  prosecute,  or punish officials  who committed
human rights violations or abuses. (HE V)
The actions of the Syrian government against U.S. interests is well documented.
The  Syrian  government  was  aware  of,  and  encouraged  for  many  years,  the  transit  of
terrorists through Syria into Iraq for the purpose of fighting U.S. forces. In December 2015,
President Obama signed into law the Visa Waiver Program improvement and Terrorist
Travel Protection Act of 2015, which amended the existing Visa Waiver Program. Under
the 2015 amendment, citizens of Syria are ineligible to travel or be admitted to the United
States  under  the  Visa  Waiver  program.  The  exclusion  of  Syria  from  waiver  eligibility
reflects the determination of the Secretary of Homeland Security that the presence of an
individual from  that country increases the likelihood that the individual is a credible threat
to  the  national security  of  the  United  States;  that  a foreign terrorist  organization has a
significant  presence  in  the  country;  or  that  Syria  is  a  safe  haven  for  terrorists.  In
September 2017, the Government suspended the entry of Syrian nationals into the United
States,  citing  concerns  over  significant  inadequacies  of
the  country’s  identity-
management  protocols,  the  country’s  failure  to  share  public  safety  and  terrorism
information,  and  the  country’s  status  as  the  source  of  significant  terrorist  threats.  U.S.
citizens  are  also  warned  against  traveling  to  Syria  due  to  concerns  about  terrorism,
kidnapping, and armed conflict. The U.S Embassy in Damascus suspended its operations
in February 2012. (HE V)
Applicant’s father-in-law, 69, is a retired Syrian military officer. In his October 2019
responses  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant  reported that  none  of  his  Syrian  in-laws
had ties to any foreign government, military, or intelligence service. In response to the
SOR, Applicant reported that his father-in-law was a retired “Air Force Brigadier.” At the
hearing, Applicant testified that the term “brigadier” in Arabic did not refer to a flag officer
as it does in English and that he was mistaken in using the term. Applicant has never met
his in-laws. His communication with them is limited as he does not speak Arabic and his
in-laws do not speak English. The information in the record about Applicant’s in-laws is
based on the testimony of his wife.  (Tr. 93, 133-134, 146; GE 2; AE B –C)
Applicant’s  wife testified that her  father  retired in  approximately 2001, when she
was 18 years old. He served in the Syrian military throughout her childhood. She testified
that her father graduated from a military academy in Syria and was an officer. Applicant’s
wife  corroborated  Applicant’s  testimony  that  the  term  “brigadier”  in  Arabic  is  not
associated with a general’s rank as it is in  the American military. However,  Applicant’s
wife could not clarify the nature of her father’s job in the Syrian military or his rank upon
retirement.  Applicant  provided  AE  O,  a  letter  obtained  by  his  wife,  from  a  Syrian
organization of retired military members. Applicant presented Applicant both the original
letter as written in Arabic and an English translation. The letter indicates that Applicant’s
father-in-law has been associated with the veteran’s organization since at least 2002. The
letter, which was signed by a retired general, does not indicate his father-in-law’s  rank
upon retirement. Applicant’s wife testified that her father does have some interaction with
other individuals associated with the Syrian military. Neither AE O  nor Applicant’s wife
provided details about the extent, frequency, or nature of her father’s contact with current
or  former  Syrian  military  members.  Applicant’s  wife  testified  that  her  father  receives  a
monthly pension of $50,000 Syrian pounds, which Applicant’s wife claims to be valued at
$100 U.S. dollars. Since retiring, Applicant’s father-in-law has worked in the real estate
industry in Syria. (Tr. 93, 104-114, 112-125, 147; AE O)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law,  59,  currently  works  as  a  member  of  the  technical
education staff at a Syrian university. Both of Applicant’s parents-in-law are members of
the  Ba’ath  Party,  which  Applicant’s  wife  describes  as  the  default  political  party.  She
testified  that  neither  of  her  parents  is  politically  active.  Applicant’s  wife  stated  that  her
parents  are  financially  self-sufficient.  They  own  their  home  as  well  as  a  home  in  her
father’s  hometown.  Applicant’s  sister-in-law,  25,  is  a  student  at  a  Syrian  university.  In
2020,  Applicant’s  wife  filed  petitions  with  the  United  States  Customs  and  Immigration
Services, seeking permission to sponsor her parents’ immigration to the United States.
(Tr. 93, 95, 103-104, 118-119, 125-126, 148, 150-157; AE B. N-O).
Applicant’s wife typically speaks telephonically to her parents at least once a week
and  communicates  with  her  sister  daily  through  an  electronic  messaging  application.
Since  immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2008,  Applicant’s  wife  has  returned  to  Syria
every two years to visit her parents and sister. Her last trip was in 2018. She currently
has no plans to return to Syria, citing her concerns about traveling during the Covid-19
pandemic  as  well  as  the  potential  adverse  implications  of  her  travel  on  her  husband’s
security clearance application. The couple discussed meeting Applicant’s wife’s family in
Europe to facilitate their first meeting. However, the couple decided to postpone the trip
indefinitely. (Tr. 98-102, 127-128)
Applicant’s  wife became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2013. All of her assets are
based in the United States. Aside from his in-laws, Applicant’s familial ties are all in the
United States, as are his assets. (Tr. 97-98, 102, 150, 170, 173, 177-178)
Since  college,  Applicant  has  dedicated  himself  to  the  study  of  international
relations. As a result, he is well traveled and has developed friendships with people from
all  over  the  world.  In  support  of  his  application  for  security  clearance,  four  character
witnesses  spoke  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  All  are  long-time  clearance  holders.  All  have
significant intelligence and counter-intelligence experience. Each witness unequivocally
recommended  Applicant  for  a  security  clearance,  citing  his  professionalism,  and  his
appreciation  and  understanding  of  the  security  concerns  related  to  his  position.  One
witness in particular, a major in the U.S. Army, described the necessity of some clearance
holders to have relationships with foreign nationals to further the important work of the
United States government. The witness opined that Applicant was able to balance these
relationships with his duties as a clearance holder. (Tr, 23-89; GE 1; AE B, E-I)
