Applicant’s   personal   information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical  citation to the record.  After a thorough and  careful review  of
the pleadings,  including Applicant’s admissions in  his Answer, his hearing testimony, and
the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 55 years old  and  has been married for  32 years. He  and  his wife have
four children. He   earned a bachelor’s degree in  1987 and  two  advanced certificates in
1999. His degree is in  a specialized engineering field,  and  he has worked in  the field  since
1987. He  has also held a security clearance since 1987, except for  an eight-year period
when  his  employment  did  not   require  a   clearance.  From  2004  until   October  2017,
Applicant  worked  for   a  major   U.S.  Government  contractor  as   an  engineering   project
manager   and  was   granted  special  access  eligibility  for   a  number  of  years.  His
employment was terminated for cause in  October 2017. As a result, he lost his eligibility
for  special  access. The  next month he was hired  by another Federal contractor and  has
worked there since as a senior project  engineer.  With the renewal  of his clearance, he
hopes to regain his special access eligibility. (Tr. at 19-20, 25, 44-45.)
At the time of his termination in  2017,  and  for a  period of four-to-five years before
that, Applicant  worked in  a room  in  which  cellphones were not  permitted. An  investigation
revealed that he had used the instant messaging  and  email  systems  on his employer’s
internal  information technology (IT) systems  to  communicate personal  messages to co-
workers that were inappropriate. During the period 2004 through 2017, the investigation
revealed a total  of 578  improper communications. (Tr. at  21-23, 27-29,  39-42, 45; GE 4
at 1.)
Often,   Applicant’s   messages  were  directly  with  female  co-workers  on  personal
subjects  and   at  times  were  mutually  flirtatious.  Some  messages  were  simply
inappropriate.  Other times,  he sent messages to a friend at the company  that were of  a
sexual  nature about female co-workers.  Some communications included company profile
pictures of these co-workers. His  employer has  a written policy  stating  that  its  IT  system
is  only to be used for work-related purposes. (Tr. at 21-23, 27-29, 39-42, 45; GE 3: GE  4
at 4.)
To  Applicant’s  knowledge,  no  one  ever  complained  that  he  had  engaged  in
harassing  behavior.  His  termination  letter  makes  no  reference  to  harassment.  GE  3
references  harassment.  There  is,  however,  no  specific  evidence  in  the  record  of
harassment.  Some  of  his  messages  were  likely  perceived  by  the  recipients  as
harassment, such as messages calling the women by pet names or requesting social time
while on business travel. (Tr. at 21-23, 27-29, 39-42, 45; GE 4 at 1-2.)
Prior to his termination, no supervisor or co-worker ever complained or spoke to
Applicant about his actions. He was never romantically or sexually involved with any of
his  co-workers.  The  employer’s  HR  department  learned  about  his  inappropriate
messages and suspended him for two weeks, while it investigated Applicant’s conduct.
Thereafter, he was terminated. (Tr. at 30; GE 3.)
Applicant advised his wife of the reason for his suspension and termination.  He
recognized immediately after his termination that he had behaved like an “idiot.” He and
his wife received counseling from their church leader. Three months prior to the hearing,
they signed up for more formal marriage counselling within their religious tradition. He did
this so that he would have a tangible document, AE G, to present at the hearing. He has
returned to his traditional faith  and takes his religious beliefs  seriously. He works hard
every day to be a better person for his wife, his family, his employer, and his co-workers.
He also strives to better follow the teachings of his religion. (Tr. at 21-23, 27-29, 39-42,
45; AE G; GE 3; GE 4 at 4.)
Applicant voluntarily sought individual counseling to better understand his behavior
that lead to the termination of his employment. He now realizes that he was being selfish
and  was  looking  for  attention.  He  has  learned  to  accept  full  responsibility  for  the
consequences  of  his  actions.  He  deeply  regrets  his  behavior.  He  has  also  learned  to
appreciate  fully  what  he  has  in  his  life  that  is  positive,  starting  with  his  wife,  who  he
described as very religious. She has helped him find his way back to a more pious life.
(Tr. at 21, 31-35, 46-48.)
Shortly after his termination, Applicant was in  contact  with former co-workers who
presently work for Applicant’s new employer. He  truthfully told them why he lost his job
and  was looking for  a  new  position. He  also advised everyone he interviewed  with at  his
new employer why he had been terminated by his former employer. He was given a new
opportunity  to  continue working in  his field  with strict  requirements that he be a model
employee. He  has performed well  and  has honored his employer’s  requirement that he
not repeat his past behavior.  (Tr. at 33-34.)
Character Testimony
Two witnesses testified at the hearing on Applicant’s behalf.  They also provided
character  letters.  Both  were  employees  of  Applicant’s  former  employer  and  knew
Applicant from having worked with him in the past. Both witnesses were responsible for
hiring Applicant in his new position. One witness, who is the employer’s deputy general
manager and Applicant’s current second-line supervisor, had a serious talk with Applicant
about  the  reasons  for  his  prior  termination.  Applicant  was  very  candid  with  him.  The
witness warned Applicant that such behavior could not be repeated and that there would
be  “zero  tolerance”   for   any  misbehavior.   He   was  never,   however,  formally  put  on
probationary status.  He also advised Applicant that he  would need to receive counseling.
Applicant started counseling  at the outset  of  his employment and  has continued up until
the present. Applicant works with a number of female employees in his new  position. The
witness testified that he has received  no complaints from anyone regarding  Applicant’s
behavior.  The   witness  described  Applicant   as  a  “valued   employee”   whose   job
performance  was  “exemplary.”  The  witness  also
that  Applicant   was
“conscientious” and “very hardworking.” (Tr. at 50-62; AE B; AE C.)
testified
A second  witness testified about  Applicant’s character.  He  is Applicant’s current
first-line supervisor and director of a program supporting the U.S. military. He worked with
Applicant  at  their  former  employer  as  peers  for  about  12  years.  When  they  worked
together,  the witness  had a very  high opinion of  Applicant.  This  witness  and the  other
character  witness  made  the  decision  to  hire  Applicant  to  work  for  them  at  their  new
employer. They felt that they were not taking any risk in doing so, even after they were
fully advised by Applicant and his former supervisor about Applicant’s behavior that led
to  his  termination  in  2017.  Based  upon  their  discussions  with  Applicant,  they  were
confident that Applicant’s past  behavior would not be repeated. In  the three  years  that
Applicant  has  worked  at  his  new  position,  he  has  done  a  “fantastic”  job  without  any
problems.  No  team  members  have  made  any  negative  comments  about  Applicant’s
behavior. Applicant has been open with this witness regarding the religious counselling
he participates in with his wife. (Tr. at 63-68; AE C.)
Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant  also  provided   his  two  most   recent  performance  evaluations.   They
established  that he is a “High Performer”  (2018) or a “Solid Performer”  (2019) He   also
submitted  three  documents  that  evidence   his  religious  commitment  and   the  support
system  he has created to help him  maintain  his focus on being a better person and  more
devout,  religious person. (AE D at 5;  AE E at 5; AE F; AE G; AE  H.)
