Applicant, age 40, divorced his wife of  12 years in 2016. He remarried in 2017.
He has three minor children born of his first marriage. He earned a bachelor’s degree in
2013.  He  has  been  steadily  employed  full  time  since  2009,  including  with  his  current
defense-contractor  employer  as  of  2018.  Although  he  has  been  employed  by  at  least
one  other  defense  contractor,  he  did  not  report  having  previously  held  a  security
clearance. (Item 3)
The SOR, as amended, alleged nine delinquent debts totaling $61,321, including
three  student-loan  accounts  totaling  $27,997  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.f,  and  1.g),  one  $10,671
automobile-loan account (SOR ¶ 1.b), four credit-card accounts totaling $22,507 (SOR
¶¶  1.c-1.e  and  1.l),  and  one  $146  consumer  account  (SOR  ¶  1.k).  The  SOR  also
alleged two credit-card accounts that were charged off for unspecified amounts – SOR
¶¶ 1.i and 1.j – both of which were referred to collections as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.l and
1.d,  respectively.  In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  but  two  of  the  11  SOR
allegations: SOR ¶ 1.a ($21,696) and 1.f ($4,392). Each SOR allegation was confirmed
by the credit reports. (Items 2, 3, 6-8)
Applicant has been making monthly payments of $200 to $300 since September
2018  towards  the  federal  student-loan  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.f.  He
successfully  rehabilitated  these  two  loans  in  June  2019.  He  has  not  made  any
payments  toward  any  of  his  other  debts,  including  the  private  student-loan  account
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g, which remain unresolved. (Item 2; AE B, F, G)
Applicant initially contended that he could not afford  to  pay the remaining debts.
In his SCA,  he stated that “I  don’t think it’s ok  to be delinquent and  have  every  intention
to fix the issue.” However, in his SOR answer, he stated that he does not intend to pay
them  because  it  is  “not  financially  advantageous.”  He  is  concerned  that,  because  so
much  time  has  passed  since  the  debts  were  incurred,  he  risks  further  damage  to  his
credit score if he were to pay them now. In his FORM response, he declared “I am in a
better financial position.” However, based on credit advisors with whom he has spoken,
he believes it “makes more financial sense” to wait for his delinquent debts to age off of
his credit report rather than pay them. (FORM Response; Item 2; Item 3 at 44-48)
Applicant  attributes  his  indebtedness  primarily  to  financial  problems  that  arose
during his first marriage and the costs associated with relocations  and his divorce. His
first wife  did not work outside of the home in order to raise their children (as they  had
agreed),  so  they  relied  solely  on  Applicant’s  income.  As  their  family  grew,  it  became
increasingly  difficult  to  maintain  financial  stability.  Their  finances  became  strained
beginning  in 2012.  They chose not  to  file  bankruptcy  and,  instead,  “tried very  hard”  to
keep up with their financial obligations. By 2014, they were no longer able to maintain
their  finances.  He  and  his  first  wife  disagreed  with  how  to  manage  and  budget  their
finances, which was a factor in the divorce. They initially separated in 2015. (Item 2)
The marital debts (including state and federal taxes that were neither alleged nor
otherwise detailed in the record) were assigned to Applicant in the divorce. He did not
contest that assignment to avoid a prolonged court battle and limit the emotional toll on
his  children.  Applicant  and  his  new  wife  have  agreed  upon  a  solid  budget  plan  to
manage  their  finances.  Since  he  remarried,  Applicant  averred  that  he  has  timely  paid
his expenses, not incurred any new debts, and been able to raise his credit score. His
September  2018  and  October  2020  credit  reports  both  showed  an  automobile-loan
account that was past due in the amount of $510. Applicant travelled on cruises in April
2017 and April 2018. (Item 2; Item 3 at 36-38; Item 7 at 4-5; AE A)
Applicant  accepted  responsibility  for  his  accumulation  of  debt.  He  asserted  that
he  has  learned  from  his  financial  “mistakes.”  Following  his  divorce,  he  developed  a
financial management database that he uses to maintain his finances. He and his new
wife  live  below  their  means  and  are  committed  to  being  financially  responsible.  He
received  the  “highest  score  possible”  from  his  employer  on  his  2019  performance
review. His work ethic and character were lauded by a colleague, his wife (who is also a
colleague),  and  his  mother-in-law.  He  assisted  his  mother-in-law  in  establishing  a
budget  by  sharing  his  database  and  the  lessons  he  learned  to  maintain  control  of  his
own finances. With his help, she eliminated her debt within a few short months, enabling
her  to retire earlier  than anticipated.  He also educated her  on how to  save and spend
wisely. (Item 2, AE C-E)
The record contains scant details about Applicant’s relevant income and expense
history, including the costs associated with his relocations and divorce. He relocated in
January 2015 to move  closer to family due  to his brother’s ailing health and  to receive
the  support  of  family  while  he  and  his  first  wife  struggled  with  their  marriage.  In
December  2015,  he  relocated  for  a  “better”  employment  opportunity.  He  relocated  in
June 2018 after his company announced layoffs. Applicant asserted that the cost of the
move  associated  with  first  relocation  led  his  finances  on  a  “downward  spiral  of  falling
behind  on  payments.”  For  his  third  relocation,  he  incurred  “thousands  in  costs”  while
also paying for two homes until the sale of his former primary residence in August 2018.
In  2016,  Applicant  began  paying  30%  of  his  income  for  child  support  prior  to  a  court
order. The record does not indicate whether that amount changed following the divorce.
(Item 2; Item 3 at 9-11, 43-48)
