Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  except  SOR  ¶  3.a,  which  he  denied. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my factual findings. Applicant  is 43  years old.  He  is a  Moroccan-born  citizen  who  immigrated  to  the United  States  in  2006.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  and  was  issued  a  U.S. passport  in  June  2011.  As  of  the  date  of the  hearing,  he  was  single  and did  not  have any children.  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  Morocco  in  1997  and  obtained  a bachelor’s degree there in 2002. He attended a community college in the United States from 2007 to 2012, but he did not earn a degree. In 2006, he received an offer to work as a linguist for a DOD contractor in Iraq, contingent on obtaining a security clearance. Meanwhile,  he  has  worked  primarily  as  a  contract  virtual  linguist,  but  he  was 2 unemployed as of the date of the hearing. He has never held a DOD security clearance.  All  of  Applicant’s  family  live  in  Morocco.  His  mother,  three  brothers,  and  three sisters are citizens and residents of Morocco . His father passed away in approximately 2008. His mother is a 73-year-old housewife. His brothers are ages 52, 39, and 33. His 52-year-old and 39-year-old brothers are self-employed carpenters, and his  33-year-old  brother  works  as  a  technician  for  a  private  company.  His  sisters  are ages  48,  46,  and  35.  His  48-year-old  and  35-year-old  sisters are  housewives,  and  his 46-year-old  sister  is  an  assistant  at  a  private  school.  .  Other  than  his  48- year-old sister, who is widowed, all of his siblings are married with children. He testified that  none  of  his  sisters’  spouses  have  affiliations  with  the  Moroccan  government  or military.  While  Applicant  indicated  in  his  August  2017  security  clearance  application  that he communicated regularly with his brothers and sisters, he testified that his only contact with family in Morocco was with his mother and 33-year-old brother. They, along with his 33-year-old brother’s wife and minor child,  live together in an apartment Applicant  purchased  for  his  mother,  as  further  discussed  below.  He  speaks  with  his mother and 33-year-old brother almost daily, primarily through group chat on WhatsApp. He  traveled  to  Morocco  to  visit  his  family  and  friends  in  approximately  2008,  2011, 2013, and for nearly three months in both 2016 and 2019. He testified that none of his family members in Morocco are aware that he is seeking a security clearance or that he has  received  an offer to  work as  a  linguist  for a  DOD contractor.   Applicant  testified  that  he  gave  his  mother  money  when  he  visited  her  in Morocco, and he also provided money to some family members so that they could visit her in Morocco when she was sick; however, he had not sent money to his mother in a long time. He clarified that his disclosure in his SCA that he provided financial support of $6,000 annually to his mother  occurred only once, in approximately 2016. He testified that no family member in Morocco was relying on him for financial support as of the date of the hearing, as his siblings were financially independent.  Applicant  also  has  five  cousins  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Morocco:  two are  police  officers  ,  two  serve  in  the  Moroccan  military,  and  one  is  retired from  the  Moroccan  military  .  He  testified  and  disclosed  in  his  2018 counterintelligence  screening that his 56-year-old cousin retired from the Moroccan military in approximately 2009, and his last contact with this cousin was during his 2016 trip to Morocco; his 40-year-old and 34-year-old cousins began serving in the Moroccan military in 2000 and 2004, respectively, and his last contact with these cousins was in 2012  and  2002,  respectively;  and  he  was  unaware  of  the  ranks  that  all  three  cousins held  in  the  Moroccan  military  but  indicated  that  they  served  in  the  infantry.  He  also testified and disclosed in his CI screening that his 39-year-old and 34-year-old cousins were police officers in Morocco since 2007 and 2008, respectively, and his last contact with these cousins was in 2008 and 2002, respectively.  3 Applicant  has  two  childhood friends  who are  citizens  and  residents  of  Morocco, one  of  whom  is  a  police  officer  .  He  testified  that  he  had  only  occasional contact with the childhood friend in Morocco who is a police officer, and he last saw this friend during his 2019 trip to Morocco. He testified that he did not have any contact with his other childhood friend.  In approximately 2008, Applicant opened a bank account in Morocco . He  testified  that  he  did  so  to  hold  the  money  necessary  for  his  land  purchase,  as discussed below. He estimated in his 2018 CI screening that the balance of this account was  approximately  $9,000  USD.  In  late  2013,  he  purchased  an  apartment  in  Morocco for  $50,000  USD  .  He  purchased  the  apartment  for  his  mother  to  live.  He intends to sell the property when his mother passes away and transfer the profit to the United States. In 2016, he purchased land in Morocco for $30,000 USD . He did  so  as  an  investment,  as  he  intends  to  build  commercial  property  on  the  land  and then rent or sell it. He testified that his land purchase was not a reflection of any loyalty to Morocco. As of the date of the hearing, his 33-year-old brother was overseeing and managing the development of the land, which consisted of construction of a coffee shop with an apartment on top.  Applicant’s former girlfriend and ex-fiancée is a citizen of Somalia, and she has children living in Somalia . She is a 42-year-old permanent resident of the United  States.  He  testified  that  she  was  never  a  citizen  of  Syria.  He  met  her  in approximately 2013 or 2014, when he worked for a refugee shelter in the United States in  which  she  was  a  former  resident,  after  she  had  fled  Somalia  at  age  ten  to  Saudi Arabia and then Syria before receiving refugee status to come to the United States. She has  six  children:  three  reside  in  the  United  States,  two  reside  in  Somalia,  and  one resides in Europe. He provided approximately $3,000 in financial support to her parents, who are also citizens of Somalia . He testified that his relationship with her was on and off from approximately 2013 to 2017, as she became engaged to another individual in late 2015, and then yet again another individual in approximately 2019. He testified  that  he  had  no  intentions  of  reuniting  with  his  ex-fiancée,  and  he  last  had contact with her in approximately June 2019. He testified that he no longer had any ties to her, her parents, or any Somali citizen.  As of the date of the hearing, Applicant rented an apartment in the United States. He  has  a  checking  account  in  the  United  States  with  a  balance  of  approximately $30,000.  He  believed  he  has  a  retirement  account  in  the  United  States  related  to  a previous  employer,  but  he  was  unaware  of  its  value.  He  also  owns  a  car.  He  testified that he has no intentions of returning to Morocco to live. He testified that he is loyal to the  United  States.  He  received  a  charter  membership  certificate  in  2012  for  his participation  and  contribution  to  the  National  Language  Service  Corps.  He  was presented a team player award in 2014. He was awarded a certificate of appreciation in 2015 in recognition for three years of service to a former employer.  4 CRIMINAL Applicant  was  arrested  in  December  2015  and  charged  with:    assault  and battery  ;    stalking  with  reasonable  fear  of  death,  assault,  etc.  ;  using profane or threating language by means of telephone, cell broadcast, or text ; and  causing a telephone to ring, with or without intent to talk, with intent  to  annoy  .  Applicant  testified  that  his  ex-fiancée,  as  discussed previously,  reported  him  to  the  police  in  late  2015  after  he  questioned  her  upon discovering  that  she  had  gotten  engaged  to  another  individual.  He  pled  guilty  to  the fourth charge and charges one through three were nolle prossed. He was sentenced to 180 days  in  jail,  suspended,  fined $92,  and  ordered not have  any  contact  with  his ex- fiancée  and  her  family.  She  obtained  a  two-year  protective  order  against  him  in  April 2016, which was dissolved by the court in May 2017 at her request. He does not have any other criminal-related incidents.  PERSONAL CONDUCT The SOR alleged that Applicant  deliberately falsified his response to section 22 of his 2017 SCA, because he failed to list the assault and battery charge, as set forth in SOR ¶ 2.a, and the charge of causing a telephone to ring, with or without intent to talk, with intent to annoy, as set forth in SOR ¶ 2.d . Section 22 instructed that he report information regardless of whether the record in his case was sealed, expunged, or  otherwise  stricken  from  the  court  record,  or  the  charge  was  dismissed.  Section  22 also  inquired  whether,  in  the  seven  years  prior  to  completing  his  SCA,  he  had  been issued a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against him; he had been arrested by any police officer, sheriff, marshal or any other type of law enforcement  official;  he  had  been  charged,  convicted,  or  sentenced  of  a  crime  in  any court; or he had been or was at the time of completing his SCA on probation or parole. It also  inquired  whether he  was  at  the  time  of  completing  his  SCA  on  trial  or  awaiting  a trial on criminal charges. Applicant  disclosed,  in  response  to  section  22  of  his  2017  SCA,  his  April  2016 conviction for “cause telephone/pager to ring to annoy.” In so disclosing, he stated that he was in a relationship with his then girlfriend, the complainant, when she reported to the  police  that  he  was  bothering  her.  He  stated  that  the  court  issued  a  two-year protective order prohibiting him from having contact with his ex-girlfriend or her children. He also stated that she dropped the protective order in May 2017, after which time they resumed their relationship.  Morocco The United States considers Morocco an important regional security, trade, and development  partner,  and  Morocco  is  a  designated  Major  Non-NATO  Ally.  It  is  a member of the U.S.-led Global Coalition to Defeat the Islamic State. In 2017, the United States and Morocco launched an “Initiative to Address Homegrown Violent Extremists” under the auspices of the multilateral Global Counterterrorism Forum. 5 In April 2019, the U.S. Department of State raised the travel advisory for Morocco to  “Level  2:  Exercise  Increased  Caution,”  due  to  terrorism.  Terrorist  attacks  targeting tourist sites, official Moroccan government facilities, and the U.S. Consulate and Public Affairs  annex  in  Casablanca  took  place  in  Morocco  in  2003,  2007,  2011,  and  2018. Extremists claiming allegiance to ISIS targeted and murdered two Scandinavian tourists in  the  2018  attack.  In  addition,  while  Morocco  is  viewed  as  one  of  the  more  stable countries in West Africa, protests reflecting grievances over the economy, governance, police  brutality,  and  high-level  cronyism  and  corruption  have  surged  in  the  historically marginalized north and east since 2016. Somalia The  United  States  formally  recognized  the  federal  government  of  Somalia  in January  2013.  In  July  2018,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  issued  a  level  4  travel advisory  for  Somalia,  advising  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Somalia  due  to  terrorism, crime,  and  piracy.  It  also  assessed  Mogadishu  as  being  a  critical  threat  location  for terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  U.S.  Government  interests.  Violent  crime  is common throughout Somalia and no area is considered immune from violence, as the potential exists  for hostile  acts,  either  targeted  or  random,  against  foreign  nationals  at any  time  throughout  the  country.  The  U.S.  Government  cannot  provide  consular services to U.S. citizens in Somalia. In March 2008, the U.S. Secretary of State designated Somali-based Al-Shabaab as a Foreign Terrorist Organization. The group remained active in Somalia throughout 2017.  In  what  is  believed  to  be  the  single  deadliest  attack  of  the  group’s  history  in Somalia,  Al-Shabaab  detonated  multiple  bombs  in  Mogadishu  in  October  2017,  killing more than 500 people. Somalia’s porous borders contribute to regional insecurity, as Al- Shabaab  and  others  continue  to  move  throughout  the  region  mostly  undetected.  With little  law  enforcement  cooperation  between  the  federal  government  of  Somalia  and Somali state governments, the ability of U.S. law enforcement to investigate suspected terrorists, terrorist incidents, and kidnappings is hampered. 