In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all SOR allegations.  He also provided extenuating and mitigating information.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant is a 56-year-old linguist who intends to return to Afghanistan to continue to support U.S. operations.  He was born in Pakistan.  In 1980, he graduated from high school in Pakistan.  In 1984, he received a bachelor’s 2 degree in Pakistan.  In 2010, he immigrated to the United States from Pakistan along with his spouse and children.  From July 2011 to April 2013, Applicant served as a linguist in Afghanistan.  His support of the  U.S. military exposed him to a risk of injury or death from combat.    For  example,  around  2012,  an  improvised  explosive  device   exploded near his Stryker vehicle, and he and other vehicle occupants were tossed around inside the vehicle, but Applicant was not injured.  In January 2019, he returned to Afghanistan as a linguist supporting the United States.  Two days before his February 5, 2020 hearing, he returned to the United States, and he planned to return to Afghanistan the day after his hearing.  There is no evidence of criminal offenses, use of illegal drugs, delinquent debts, or security violations.  In 1987, Applicant married in Pakistan.  His three children were born in Pakistan in 1991, 1992, and 1995.  In 2016, Applicant, his spouse, and his two youngest children were naturalized as U.S. citizens.  His oldest son  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2019.    Applicant’s  three  children  and  one grandchild live in the United States.  Applicant’s spouse is employed in a babysitting service.  Foreign Influence SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, and 1.h, allege Applicant’s mother, sister, and sister-in-law  are citizens and residents of Pakistan. SOR ¶ 1.k alleges Applicant’s spouse owns a home in Pakistan. Applicant’s mother is 90 years old, and she uses a wheelchair.  She is unable to travel because she had a stroke, and her medical condition is “declining.”  He provides financial support to his mother.  His sister is a homemaker.  Applicant’s spouse’s parents passed away, and Applicant’s spouse inherited a home in Pakistan from her father valued at about $125,000.  Applicant’s sister-in-law A is partially disabled, and she resides with two children in Applicant’s spouse’s Pakistan home.  Applicant’s spouse visits her sister A every year when possible.  Applicant has weekly and sometimes daily contact with his mother, bi-monthly contact with his sister, and quarterly contact with his sister-in-law A.  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant’s brother  is a citizen and resident of Pakistan. From 1971  to  2000,  brother  S  served  in  the  Pakistan  army,  and  he  retired  at  the  rank  of lieutenant  colonel.    He  currently  works  for  a  company  connected  with  the Pakistan government.  Applicant communicates with his brother S about every two to three months.  SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.e allege Applicant’s brother , his sister-in-law  , his brother’s son-in-law , and Applicant’s nephew  are citizens and residents of Pakistan, and they work for the Pakistan government.  Brother I lives with Applicant’s mother.  Brother I has worked for a government health agency for more than 20 years.  Brother I does not work for the military, and he does not have a political position.  Applicant communicates with his brother I about twice a year.   Applicant’s  sister-in-law  R  and  nephew  I  are  no  longer  employed  by  the  Pakistan government.  Sister-in-law R has been a homemaker for several years, and his brother’s  son-in-law  B  works  for  an  educational  institution.    Applicant communicates with his sister-in-law R, his brother’s son-in-law B, and his nephew I when he visits Pakistan, and he does not contact them on a regular basis.  SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g allege Applicant’s friends N, K, and I are citizens and residents of Pakistan. They are all retired from the Pakistan military. Friend N served in the Pakistan army from 1986 to 2016 and retired as a colonel.  Friend K and Applicant served in the same infantry unit, and friend K retired from the Pakistan army as a major.  Friend I served in the Pakistan military from 1985 to 2015, and he retired as a colonel.  Friend I currently has important Pakistan government employment.  Friend I  and  Applicant  often  served  together  in  the  Pakistan  army.    Applicant communicates with friends N and K about once a year; however, he is no longer close to them.  He does not communicate with them now because he is in Afghanistan.  He described friend I as his “best friend,” and he communicates with friend I on a weekly basis.  Applicant’s spouse and Friend I’s spouses are  close friends.   He most recently  met  with  friend  I  when  he  went to Pakistan in 2017.  SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  and  Applicant  admitted  that  Applicant  served  in  the  Pakistan military from 1985 to 2009; he retired as a major; and he receives a monthly pension from the  Pakistan  military  of  about  $400.    He  was commissioned in the infantry.  He served the last 10 years of his Pakistan army career  as  an  instructor.    He  decided  to  leave  active  duty  because  he  had  a medical problem.  SOR ¶¶ 1.j, 1.l, and 1.m allege Applicant owns in Pakistan:  property valued at about $100,000;  a bank account with about $3,000 on deposit; and  a bank account with  about  $500  on  deposit.  The  value  of  his  land  in  Pakistan  has  varied  from  about $40,000 to about $100,000 depending on a variety of economic factors.  One bank account currently has about $4,500 on deposit, and amount changes because his retired pay is deposited in the account by the Pakistan government.  He and his family use the funds in the accounts when they visit Pakistan.  They transfer excess funds to his United States accounts.  Applicant inherited the land valued at about $40,000 to about $100,000 from his father.  He intends to divide the land inheritance between his three sons.  Applicant’s brother S currently farms Applicant’s land in Pakistan.  Around 2013, Applicant sold all of his other property in Pakistan except for the land in SOR ¶ 1.j, and he transferred about $80,000 to the United States.  He used most of the funds from the sale of this property in Pakistan  to purchase a house in the United States.  He spent some of the $80,000 to support his family in Pakistan. Applicant has about $60,000 equity in his house in the United States.  Applicant’s  immediate  family  knows  he  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance; however, his family in Pakistan is not aware of the specifics of his employment.  He told them that he is a civil engineer.  He did not tell them he is serving in Afghanistan.  Applicant traveled to Pakistan twice in 2013, once in 2014, once in 2016, and twice in 2017.  He typically stayed in Pakistan for 10 to 30 days on each trip.  Several visits were to support one of his siblings and his mother because of their  medical  issues.    He  is  nervous  about  visiting  Pakistan  because  of sensitivities in that country in the areas of religion and politics.  Freedom of speech in Pakistan is limited and making comments about religion and politics or support of the United States is risky.  He avoids attending public gatherings in Pakistan.  Applicant did not renounce his Pakistan citizenship because Pakistan does not recognize renunciation of citizenship for persons born in Pakistan.  He retains his Pakistan passport because his mother may have a health emergency, and he does not want to have a delay in his travel.  He occasionally sends money to friends and family living in Pakistan.  Applicant’s spouse’s brother-in-law served in the U.S. Army for 30 years, and he is a successful businessman in the United States.   Applicant describes himself as honest, loyal to the United States, and determined to protect U.S. national security.  He is proud to be a U.S. citizen and to support the U.S. military.  He is adamant that he would resist any attempt at coercion and unlawful influence.  He is happy about his life in the United States, and he does not intend to leave the United States and return to settle in Pakistan.  The Islamic Republic of Pakistan  The separation in 1947 of British India into the Muslim state of Pakistan  and largely Hindu India was never satisfactorily resolved; India and Pakistan fought two wars and a limited conflict  over the disputed Kashmir territory. A third war between these countries in 1971 - in which India  assisted  an  indigenous  movement  reacting  to  the  marginalization  of  Bengalis  in Pakistani politics - resulted in East Pakistan becoming the separate nation of Bangladesh. The Department of State travel advisory for Pakistan is Level 3: Reconsider Travel to  Pakistan  due  to  terrorism.  Four  areas  of  the  country   are at Level 4: Do Not Travel. Pakistan is a federal parliamentary republic. In July 2018 the Pakistan Tehreek-e- Insaf  party won the most National Assembly seats in the general elections, and in August 2018, PTI’s Imran Khan became prime minister. Since 2001, U.S. policy has broadly been to assist the creation of a more stable, democratic, and prosperous Pakistan that actively combats religious militancy. A key U.S. ally  in  combatting  terrorism  after  9/11,  Pakistan  had  been  a  leading  recipient  of  U.S. assistance, receiving more than $30 billion in aid and military reimbursements since 2001. 5 In January 2019, the U.S. Director of National Intelligence told a Senate panel of “Pakistan’s  recalcitrance  in  dealing  with  militant  groups,”  and  predicted  Pakistan  will continue  to  threaten  U.S.  interests  “by  deploying  new  nuclear  weapons  capabilities, maintaining  its  ties  to  militants,  restricting  counterterrorism  cooperation,  and  drawing closer to China.” Pakistan is a haven for numerous Islamist extremist and terrorist groups, and successive Pakistani governments are widely believed to have tolerated and even supported some of these as proxies in Islamabad’s historical conflicts with its neighbors. Although  the  Pakistani  government  voiced  support  for  political  reconciliation between the Afghan government and the Afghan Taliban, it did not restrict the Afghan Taliban and the Haqqani Network  from operating in Pakistan-based safe havens and  threatening  U.S.  and  Afghan  forces  in  Afghanistan.  The  government  failed  to significantly  limit  Lashkar  e-Tayyiba    and  Jaish-e-Mohammad    from  raising money, recruiting, and training in Pakistan - and allowed candidates overtly affiliated with LeT front organizations to contest the July general elections. Pakistan experienced significant terrorist threats in 2018, although the number of attacks  and  casualties  have  continued  to  decrease  from  previous  years.  The  major terrorist groups that focused on conducting attacks in Pakistan included Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan , Jamaat-ul-Ahrar , Islamic State’s Khorasan Province , and the  sectarian  group  Lashkar-e-Jhangvi  al-Alami  .  ISIS-K  claimed  several  major attacks  against  Pakistani  targets,  some  of  which  may  have  been  conducted  in collaboration  with  other  terrorist  groups.  Separatist  militant  groups  conducted  terrorist attacks against governmental, non-governmental, and diplomatic targets in Balochistan and  Sindh  provinces.  Groups  located  in  Pakistan,  but  focused  on  conducting  attacks outside  the  country,  included  the  Afghan  Taliban,  HQN,  LeT  and  its  affiliated  front organizations, and JeM. Terrorists used a range of tactics to attack individuals, schools, markets, government institutions, and places of worship, including IEDs, VBIEDs, suicide bombings, targeted assassinations, and rocket-propelled grenades. Terrorist  Incidents:  Pakistan  has  experienced  numerous  recent  terrorist  attacks. Militant  and  terrorist  groups  targeted  civilians,  journalists,  community  leaders,  security forces,  law  enforcement  agents,  and  schools,  killing  and  injuring  hundreds.  Religious minorities faced significant threats from terrorist groups. *  *  * Terrorist financing networks in Pakistan have come under scrutiny. In early 2018, the  United  States  joined  Britain  in  urging  other  members  of  the  Paris-based  Financial Action Task Force  to return Pakistan to its list of countries found to be insufficiently combating money laundering and terrorism financing, where it had been listed from 2012 to 2015. In mid-2018, FATF formally added Pakistan to this “Gray List.” Human  rights  issues  in  Pakistan  include  credible  reports  of  extrajudicial  and targeted killings; forced disappearances; torture; arbitrary and lengthy pretrial detention; arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with  privacy;  censorship,  site-blocking,  and  arbitrary restrictions on journalists’ freedom of movement; severe harassment and intimidation of 6 and  high  profile  attacks  against  journalists  and  media  organizations;  government restrictions on freedom of peaceful assembly and association, including overly restrictive nongovernmental  organizations    laws;  restrictions  on  religious  freedom  and discrimination against members of religious minority groups; restrictions on freedom of movement;  corruption  within  the  government;  recruitment  and  use  of  child  soldiers  by non-state militant groups; lack of criminal investigations or accountability for cases related to rape, sexual harassment, so-called honor crimes, female genital mutilation/cutting, and violence  based  on  gender,  gender  identity  and  sexual  orientation;  legal  prohibitions  of consensual  same-sex  sexual  conduct;  forced  and  bonded  labor  and  transnational trafficking in persons; and the worst forms of child labor. In early 2017, after Pakistan’s military announced the nationwide Radd-ul-Fasaad or  “Elimination  of  Strife”  operation  to  prevent  cross-border  terrorist  attacks  and  limit militants’ access to explosives and weapons, government and military sources reported scores of military and police operations to disarm, disrupt, kill, and apprehend terrorists. Military  courts  operated  without  transparency  and  sentenced  at  least  104  convicted terrorists to death in 2018, up from at least 15 in 2017. The  Pakistani  military  and  intelligence  services  nominally  reported  to  civilian authorities but essentially operated without effective civilian oversight. There was a lack of government accountability, and abuses often went unpunished, fostering a culture of impunity  among  the  perpetrators,  whether  official  or  unofficial.  Authorities  seldom punished government officials for human rights abuses. 