Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 2.a , all with  explanations  and  a  narrative  statement.  Her  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  44  years  old.  She  and  her  husband  married  in  2004.  They  have  a young  son.  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  accounting  in  1999  and  another bachelor’s degree in management information systems in 2001. She has worked in the defense industry, with a security clearance, since September 2002.  Applicant has worked in business management or accounting for her entire career. She worked as a business manager for her first defense employer from 2002 to 2009.   She  was  then  employed  as  an  accounting  manager  by 2 defense  contractor  X  from  2009  until  September  2014,  when  she  was  terminated  for cause. . She was then briefly unemployed. Since December 2014,  she  has  been  employed  as  an  accountant  and  financial  auditor  for  a  defense contractor working with a defense agency.  As the accounting manager for Company X, Applicant managed payroll, invoicing, and expenses. She managed five employees directly. They included an employee who handled invoices; an employee who handled corporate expenses; a payroll accountant; an employee who handled expenses for contract employees; and Applicant’s personal assistant. Company X had about 400 employees nationwide. Only a few of them worked at the headquarters location, among them the company owners, as well as Applicant and a few others.  Among  Applicant’s  duties  as  the  accounting  manager  was  the  responsibility  to oversee  an  annual  audit  of  the  company’s  financial  bookkeeping.  She  testified  that  in 2013, the company began using a new accounting system. Applicant said the accounting system  had  problems,  and  she  wanted  to  fix  those  problems  before  having  the  audit completed  by  the  2014  due  date.  The  company  president,  Mr.  W,  wanted  the  audit completed so the company could apply for a loan, and pressured Applicant to complete it more promptly.  Applicant told Mr. W that she needed more time to complete the project, and the audit  was  not  completed.  In  September  2014,  Mr.  W  lost  patience  with  Applicant  and terminated her for failure to complete the audit.   Applicant applied for unemployment compensation, but did not receive it.  Company X had a corporate credit card program. Applicant testified that about 100 company credit cards were for travelling employees. About 10 company credit cards were for employees at corporate headquarters to purchase items such as office and kitchen supplies.  Applicant had oversight of the corporate credit card program in her role as the accounting manager.  Applicant had a corporate credit card, as did several of the people she supervised.  Applicant testified that administration of the expense reports for the travel cards worked well but “the corporate side was very informal, very laid back, didn’t really have a formality with them. And we were not required to give expense reports on the corporate side.”  Employee J, who worked directly for Applicant, was  responsible for directly monitoring the company credit card program. Employee J maintained the credit card files and made sure the credit card bills were paid. The credit card invoices were mailed in to Employee J for payment by the company. Applicant described herself as a “very laid-back manager,” because  she  felt  she  could  trust  her  employees.  She  did  not  make  inquiries  about employees’ corporate credit card purchases.  3 During  2013  and  2014,  Applicant  used  her  company  credit  card  for  personal expenses on numerous occasions. Charges on her card included medical expenses and gas, as well as appropriate items such as supplies and food for the office.  She acknowledged that there was no system in place to differentiate between personal charges and proper corporate charges on the credit card. She acknowledged that, as the accounting manager, she was responsible for that failing.  She did not reimburse her employer for any of her personal charges. Applicant acknowledged that she never went to Employee J to see the monthly invoices for Applicant’s corporate credit card account, so she could review them for personal charges.  Applicant denied that she was having financial difficulties at the time.  Applicant, an at-will employee, received the Company X employee handbook when she began the job.  The handbook noted that “All charges to [the company credit  card]  must  be  for  travel  unless  otherwise  authorized.”  It  further  noted  that  “Any abuse  of  the  company  credit  card  will  be  grounds  for  immediate  revocation  of  the privilege, and for discipline, up to and including termination.”  The company audit was completed after Applicant’s termination. It revealed that Applicant  and  three  employees  she  supervised  were  using  company  credit  cards  for personal expenses.  Those employees were also terminated.  This led to a state criminal investigation.  Mr. W, the company president, told  investigators  that  the  company’s  internal  audit  revealed  over  $224,000  in unauthorized  personal  expenses  on  company  credit  cards,  by  Applicant  and  the  three other employees, during 2013 and 2014.  Of those charges,  $29,845 were found to be personal charges on Applicant’s corporate credit card.  Applicant testified at her hearing that Mr. W “gave multiple people the authority to use their corporate credit cards for personal expenses.”  However, Mr. W denied to the criminal investigators that he had given employees such authorization. Mr. W told criminal investigators that “there was no one allowed to use [a] credit card to purchase personal items.”  Mr. W also told criminal investigators that in 2008 or 2009, Applicant charged two tanks  of  gas  on  a  company  credit  card.  He  said  he  made  her  repay  the  charges  and counselled her not to do it again.  Applicant did not start working for company X until 2009, but she otherwise confirmed the essence of the conversation.  Information provided by Company X to state criminal investigators included an e- mail Company X sent to its insurance company in March 2015 concerning an insurance claim related to the credit card theft.  The e-mail notes that Company X’s established  procedures  required  expense  reports  to  be  completed  for  all  expenses incurred  on  company  credit  cards.  Applicant  and  another  employee  had  approval authority on the expense reports.  Only the company president, Mr. W, had check-signing authority. However, Employee J paid the credit card invoices online and not by check. Applicant, as the accounting manager, had the responsibility to review and 4 approve credit card expenses and to reconcile the accounts monthly. The company chief financial officer determined that no such reconciliation took place.  In October 2015, Applicant was indicted on state charges of: 1) theft of $29,845 of company property and 2) illegal use of a credit or debit card.  A warrant was then issued for her arrest. Applicant learned of the warrant in June 2016, when it came up on a background check performed when she attempted to purchase a firearm as a gift for her husband. She turned herself in to authorities and was arrested.  The other three employees were also charged.  Applicant informed her current employer about the charges. This led to an incident report in the Defense Department’s Joint Personnel Adjudication System , to her 2017 SCA, and thus, to the pending hearing.  The  district  attorney  offered  Applicant  an  opportunity  to  participate  in  a  pretrial intervention  program.  The  charges  were  dismissed  in  December  2016.  Applicant participated in counseling two hours a week for five or six weeks. She and the other three defendants had to pay a combined $25,000 in restitution. Applicant paid over $9,000 in restitution,  as  well  as  court  costs.  She  completed  the  pretrial  intervention  program successfully in November 2018.  During  her  testimony,  Applicant  denied  that  she  failed  to  complete  the  audit because she knew that it would bring to light her own credit card misuse. She said she was not trying to hide anything about her conduct by failing to complete the audit, and was not worried that anything would be discovered.  Applicant testified that she will never do anything like this again. It has been the most stressful event of her life. She did not intend to hurt anyone. She is a team player. She  acted  out  of  character.  She  would  not  put  her  family  through  this  again.  She apologized  for  her  actions  and  asserted  that  she  is  trustworthy.  She  recognized  her failings as a financial manager.  In her current job, Applicant works as an accountant and financial auditor.  In 2017, she had an annual salary of just under $100,000.  She does not hold a corporate credit card currently, but said she is not barred from having one.  In  2017,  Applicant  was  regarded  by  her  employer  as  a  trusted  partner  to  the government  and  a  welcome  and  contributing  member  of  the  accounting  team.  She performs  at  a  very  high  level.    She  has  been  honored  with  awards  for  her performance.  Applicant’s performance evaluation from 2019 reflects that she easily meets client expectations and that her leadership and experience is valued and highly appreciated. She is highly prepared and leads by example.  Applicant is active in her local school and church community.  5 After  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  documentation  that  she  recently  took  an ethics  refresher  course  for  accountants  as  well  as  documentation  of  numerous  other professional training or refresher courses.  