Applicant is a 73-year-old call center operator for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. Applicant denied each of the allegations in the SOR, and findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married in November 1968 and divorced in December 1982.  He has  one  adult  child  from  this  marriage.  He  remarried  in  January  1983  and  divorced  in November  2013.  He  has  one  adult  child  from  this  marriage.  Applicant  earned community college education credits between September 1971 and June 1973, but did not receive a degree or diploma.  He enlisted in the U.S. Army in October 1966 and served two years of active duty. During his active tour of duty, Applicant earned a bronze star and purple heart in recognition of his contribution to his military service.  Since August 2016, Applicant has been employed by his current employer.    He   reported  periods  of  unemployment  between  August  2015  and   March  2016, between July 2013 and September  2013, and  between February 2011 and  March 2011. In March 2012, Applicant  was terminated from his  then  employer as a switch operator on an Army Base. Cited cause for  his termination was  his being caught taking pictures of a dial central office with a personal camera  after being  granted a security clearance  in June 2011.  Applicant’s finances three Between  November   2008   and  May  2019,  Applicant  accumulated delinquent  student  loan  debts  he  guaranteed  as  a  parent  for   his   daughter’s  college education. These two loans  covered by SOR ¶¶1.a-1.b and  1.d involve  three separate accounts  with  the  same  Navient/U.S.  Government  loan  guarantee  creditor:   one   for $42,802; another for $36,313; and  a third for $39,108.  For  two years   after   the  loans  became  due,  Applicant’s  wife  made  voluntary  payments  on  the loans  on behalf of their working daughter.  She ceased  making these voluntary payments, however, after  2013, and  Applicant could not say whether his daughter  ever made any payments once  she began working.  Acknowledging that each  of  the three loans  went into default after 2013, he could not confirm whether any of  the loans 3 were ever placed in  forbearance before or after the defaults.  Credit  reports do not reflect any  prior forbearances  granted to  Applicant  on any or all of the three student loans covered in the SOR.  In  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant  expressed  certainty  that  his  three  parent- guaranteed  student  loans  were  consolidated  into  one  loan.    He  provided  no documentation of  consolidation  of  any or  all of  the  three loans,  however,  and only  the two loans covered by SOR ¶¶1.a-1.b are treated by the U.S. Department of Education  and the Department of the Treasury  as consolidated into one account for collection purposes.  Without corroborated evidence of consolidation of the student loan covered by SOR  ¶1.d with the loans covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b, the SOR  1.d  loan  must  be considered  a separate delinquent  loan that  was  apparently not included in any DoT garnishment initiatives covering the SOR 1.a-1.b loans. And, from the evidence produced, none of the three delinquent student loans covered by the SOR have been voluntarily addressed by Applicant or his wife and daughter since 2013. Beginning  in  March  2018,  and  ending  in  February  2020,  the  DoT  placed  the since  consolidated  two  parent-guaranteed  loans    in  collection  status and  began  intercepting  Applicant’s  SS  benefits  and  involuntarily  applied  over  $300  a month of Applicant’s earmarked SS  benefits to his delinquent student loan debts   SS payments intercepted by DoT were involuntarily withheld and rechanneled for  payment  of  Applicant’s  consolidated  student  loan  debts.    The  DoT’s intercepted  dollar  amounts  from  Applicant’s  monthly  $2,200  SS  benefits  ranged  from $336 to $311, to $315, to $338 a month and reduced.  Altogether, DoT  intercepted  monthly  amounts  in  excess  of  $3,300  from  Applicant’s  SS  benefits between May 2018 and February 2020.  After  February  2020,  the  DoT  ceased  intercepting  portions  of  Applicant’s  SS benefits,  likely  attributable  to  the  Covid-19  pandemic.    Absent  any  voluntary payments  on  the  student  loan  debts  from  Applicant  ,  the  DoT  can  be expected  to  resume  its  intercepting  of  Applicant’s  SS  benefits  once  the  Covid  19 pandemic fades or is otherwise favorably resolved. Because the DoT’s intercepted funds from Applicant’s SS  benefits were applied exclusively  to  interest  and  fees  owing  on  the  student  loan  debts,  Applicant  was  not credited with any principal reductions from the SS benefits intercepted by the DoT.  Applicant’s  post-hearing submissions confirm only that the DoT’s  intercepted SS funds were applied exclusively to accrued interest and fees and did not touch loan principle.  Additional  delinquent  debts  attributable  to  Applicant  in  the  SOR  are  two  small delinquent medical debts totaling $633.  These debts are listed in Applicant’s credit reports without any information by which to identify the creditors by name. Asked about these debts listed as delinquent in  Applicant’s credit reports, Applicant could not identify them as debts belonging to him.  The listed medical debts are small and cannot be further corroborated. 4 Currently,  Applicant  has  an  annual  salary  of  $40,000.    He  has  earned annual social security  benefits  of $25,000 and two pensions from prior  employers  that pay him $441 and $350 a month, respectively, for a combined annual return of $9,480.   He  maintains  an  average  monthly  checking  balance  of  $1,600  and  an average monthly savings balance in the $600 range. . His monthly debt liabilities include  a  $279,000  mortgage  on  a  home  valued  at  $420,000.    Based  on  his monthly income and identified debts, his current financial condition should enable him to make  payments  on  his  daughter’s  delinquent  student  loans  for  which  he  bears repayment responsibility. Since 2013, though, he has made no voluntary payments on the loans that are in any way documented. Applicant’s 2012 separation According   to  JPAS  incident  reports  from  the  Army  Base  in   which   he  was assigned in March 2012, Applicant was discovered by base  police taking pictures with his  personal   camera  phone  of  a   base-dial   central  office   directly  outside  of  the  Base communications  office  at   the   Army  Base  where  he  was  assigned.     He acknowledged   his  awareness  that  having  any  camera  on  Base  property  is  strictly forbidden.  It  is  unclear  from  Joint  Personnel  Adjudicative  System    reports  of  the incident  as  to  why  Applicant  took  such  a  picture  of  a  major  portion  of  the  Base’s  dial- central  office.  Applicant  admitted  only  to  taking  a  picture  of  a  tree  with  his  personal camera for curiosity reasons and denied taking a picture of the dial central office or any communications center on the Base as charged.  In his July 2017 e-QIP, he  attributed  his  ensuing  2012  employment  termination  to  a  report  of  the  contracting customer of the Base   to  the contracting  customer  of  the  Base  being  uncomfortable  with  Applicant’s  reporting  the matter to his supervisor.  Two  weeks  after  the  reported  Base  camera  incident,  Applicant  was  fired  for cause by his own supervisor.  It is Applicant’s stated belief that his ensuing  firing  was  prompted  by  the  contracting  customer’s  perceived  retaliation  to Applicant’s  reporting his observations of the customer’s  heated encounter with his wife , to his supervisor.  Corroboration of Applicant’s claimed observations is lacking in the record. With conflicting versions of what Applicant was  targeting with his camera in the March 2012 incident, little evidence in place to corroborate either version of the camera incident, and the lengthy time lapse  in which to locate witnesses with clear  recollections  of  the  camera  incident,  inferences  of  what  Applicant  was  targeting with  his  personal  camera  in  the  reported  March  2012  Base  incident  cannot  be reasonably and reliably drawn without considerable reaching and speculation. All that is clear  and  accepted  is  that  Applicant  took  a  picture  with  his  personal  camera  of  some object  on  the  Base  in  March  2012  that  he  knew  at  the  time  was  forbidden  by  Base regulations and guidelines. 5 Since his March 2012 Base camera incident, Applicant has not had any reported adverse  incidents  involving  security  violations.  His  employment  record  with  his  current employer has no known adverse marks or blemishes. 