Applicant is a 40-year-old senior systems engineer who has performed the same type of work for over 20 years. She currently earns about $128,000 a year. Since 2005, Applicant  has  twice  had  periods  of  unemployment,  from  February  2017  to  May  2017 and from April 2015 to July 2015. She also has her own business as a part-time venture which  generates  about  $200  every  few  months.    Applicant  has  earned  a bachelor’s degree and has completed about a year of post-graduate studies. Presently  single,  Applicant  is  the  mother  of  three  children,  one  adult,  one  teen, and one child under 10. She lives with her two  youngest children in a house she rents for $2,645 a month. She receives no child support for the minor children living with her. Documentary  evidence  in  this  matter  is  scant.  The  majority  of  the  information below  comes from  Applicant’s  testimony:  In 2005,  Applicant  began  living  in  a  property she  ultimately  purchased  the  following  year  for  $120,000  at  10.99%  interest  with  5% down: “[it was] a bad loan. I was 20 something years old. I just wanted to get a house, but  it  was  something  that  I  couldn’t  do.”    The  adjustable  rate  mortgage   only  seemed  to  go  up  when  it  adjusted.  She  unsuccessfully  tried  to  get  a  loan modification  in  2009,  when  she  was  earning  about  $75,000  a  year  and  the  mortgage payment was about $1,620 a month. Her request was rejected because her income was too  high.    She  then  went  into  a  repayment  status  paying  $2,250  a  month, followed by a second unsuccessful attempt at a modification in 2010.  Later  in  2010,  Applicant  tried  to  sell  the  house,  but  “the  property  value  was  so bad, it wasn’t even worth it.”  In 2011, she again requested a loan modification after incurring a $6,000 water bill due to a ruptured pipe. Meanwhile, without water, she and the children went to stay elsewhere. She then filed a hardship letter with her bank requesting a loan modification. She was next rejected for relief in 2015, during a layoff. Applicant  provided  emails  reflecting  communication  with  her lender  in  2016  and  2017.  In  late  2016  or  early  2017,  the  house  was  subject  to  a  break-in.  Now  feeling unsafe,  and  again  subject  to  a  layoff,  Applicant  made  one  more  attempt  to  get  a  loan modification.    Meanwhile,  she  submitted  payments,  but  they  were  returned because  she  had  become  delinquent.    Frustrated,  she  and  her  family abandoned the home in September 2017. A short sale was discussed, but it was never attempted  because  she  missed  a  deadline  to  accept  a  related  offer.    In  sum, between  2010  and  2015,  Applicant  paid  only  delinquent  mortgage  payments  or  paid less than the full amount owed.  2 In January 2018, Applicant was informed that the house would be in foreclosure or  up  for  auction.    It  ultimately  was  sold  by  auction  for  $115,000,  leaving  a deficiency  balance  owed  of  $87,354.67.    She  was  informed  she  owed  this amount in February 2018. With this information, she “didn’t do anything because I didn’t know [what to do].”  She thought her treatment had been unfair and the process “a really bad practice.”  Learning there was a class action suit against her lender, Applicant  signed  on  as  a  claimant  that  month.  She  did  so  not  by  signing  legal paperwork,  but  by  signing  and  returning  a  postcard  after  answering  some  questions.  From then on, she waited, not knowing what else to do.  Since that time she  has  taken  no  action  and  not  contacted  anyone  about  the  deficiency.  She  has  not confirmed  that  she  was  made  a  party  to  the  class  action.  She  has  no  idea  what  the status of the class action is. Rather, she is waiting for someone to contact her.  However,  she  currently  has  no  plans  to  make  payments  on  this  delinquency  because she believes she is part of the class action.  Overall,  Applicant  provides  for  her  household.  She  has  received  financial counseling.    Her  eldest  child  is  away  in  a  graduate  program  and  is  now financially  independent,  except  for  her  car  loan  payments  and  car  insurance.   Applicant has about $180,000 in retirement savings. Her expenses exceed her income slightly, but she generally is able to have “a little bit left” at the end of each month.   Overall,  she  is  “living  within  her  means,  but  just  barely.  .  .  .”    She presently has a $2,000 state tax deficiency owed that she plans to pay off.  Her credit cards are in good standing. Going forward, Applicant intends to seek advice from a  credit  counseling  service  and  she  hopes  to  work  with  a  credit  repair  service  to negotiate better terms with her lender. She wrote that she intends to look for a second, part-time job.  “If all else fails,” she will file Chapter 13 bankruptcy “so any income leftover will go to [her] creditors for 3 to 5 years. Managed by a trustee, [Her] credit will be  reestablished  over  a  few  years.  This  is  only  after  all  other  options  have  been exhausted.”  