In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c; 2.a through 2.d; partially admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3.a through 3.c; admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 4.a, and partially admitted the allegation in SOR ¶¶ 4.b and 4.c.   He  also  provided  extenuating  and  mitigating  information.    His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant is a 45-year-old health policy analyst.  He worked for a DOD contractor from October 2018, until recently, when he became unemployed.  Applicant’s parents were living in the United States when Applicant was born in the United States.  When Applicant was two years old, he and his family moved from the United States to Nigeria.  He attended school through one year of college in Nigeria.  In 1994, he returned to the United States when he was 20 years old.  He served in the U.S. Navy from 1998 to 2006.   He received an honorable discharge as a petty officer third class.   During  his  Navy  service,  he  received  the  following  awards:  Navy  and  Marine  Corps Achievement  Medal;  Meritorious  Unit  Commendation  ;  National  Defense  Service Medal; Navy Good Conduct Medal ; and Global War on Terrorism Service Medal.  After leaving the Navy, Applicant worked for the federal government for almost 11 years  in the field of health care.  At the time he left federal civil service employment, he was a GS 14 Public Health Analyst.  In 2003, he received a bachelor’s degree in healthcare services, and in 2006, he received a dual master’s  degree  in  healthcare  administration  and  business  administration.   He is working towards a Ph.D. in healthcare services.  Applicant married in 2003.  Applicant met his spouse when they were both on active duty in the Navy.  Applicant and his spouse each had one child from another relationship.  Foreign Influence and Foreign Preference Applicant’s  father  is  deceased.    His  mother  is  a  citizen  of  Nigeria.   She was born in Nigeria.  In 2008, Applicant’s mother became a permanent resident of the United States.  She resides in the United States in Applicant’s residence.  She usually travels to Nigeria on an annual basis and stays there for several months.  3 Applicant’s two brothers and one sister are citizens and residents of Nigeria.   At  the  time  of  his  June  5,  2018  Office  of  Personnel Management  personal subject interview , Applicant said “no employment” for his brothers living in Nigeria, ages 57 and 59, and his sister, age 53.  He did not know their addresses.  He had weekly to monthly contact with his brothers and daily contact with his sister by telephone or text message.  His communications with them were “casual,” and they did not discuss significant  matters.    He  does  not  discuss  his  work  with  his  family.  He did not know about his siblings’ employment.  He said that  none  of  his  siblings  had  any  “affiliation  with  a  foreign  government.”   His sister is not married.  Applicant made inconsistent statements about how he used his Nigerian passport. In September 2011, Applicant was issued a Nigerian passport; however, he said he did not use it.  In August 2016, he was issued a Nigerian passport.  He was issued the Nigerian passport to enable him to visit Nigeria without obtaining a Nigerian visa.   At his hearing, he said he presented his Nigerian and United States  passports  when  he  went  to  Nigeria  and  his  U.S.  passport  when  he  entered  the United States.  The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  used  his  Nigerian  passport  in  lieu  of  his  United States passport to exit and enter the United States in about December 2011, May 2015, and August 2016.  It also alleges that he intends to continue using his Nigerian passport in lieu of his United States passport to exit and enter the United States so long as it is authorized under security rules.   Applicant  said  he  used  his  Nigerian  passport  in  2011,  2015,  and  2016; however, he did not initially explain how he used it.  Applicant visited Nigeria as follows: from December 2011, to January 2012; from May  2015,  to  June  2015;  and  from  August  2016  to  September  2016.    In  2013, Applicant sent about $25,000 withdrawn from his retirement fund to his father to help his father pay for home repairs.  In July 2016, he paid $14,000 for his father’s funeral.  He has not traveled to Nigeria after 2016.  Applicant’s spouse was born in Panama, and she is a U.S. citizen.  Both of her parents are U.S. citizens, and her father was serving in Panama with the U.S. Army when she was born.  Applicant votes in U.S. elections.  Applicant’s child was born in the United States and resides in the United States.  Applicant  has  been  a  resident  of  the  United  States  for  25  years.   Applicant denied that he has any preference for Nigeria.  Applicant is willing to renounce his Nigerian citizenship if security officials request that he do so.  4 Personal Conduct In about April 2004, Applicant’s  spouse  obtained a domestic  violence  restraining order  against  Applicant.    He  was  not  convicted  of  any offense  as  a  result  of  the  April  2004  altercation  with  his  spouse.   Applicant  was  unable  to  remember  or  unwilling  to  disclose  details  of  the  April  2004 altercation with his spouse at his hearing.  In June 2007, Applicant and his spouse had another physical altercation. She was a petty officer first class, and Applicant and his spouse were living on base in government housing overseas.  They were in bed, and she was insulting him.  Applicant  described  the  physical  altercation  to  the  Naval  Criminal  Investigative  Service  as follows: At some point, [she] started to try to push me out of the bed with her leg. She was lying on her side as she was trying to push me out of the bed. She was not able to get me out of the bed, but she kept on saying things to me to hurt me, belittle me, and make me mad. [She] was lying face down on her stomach, and I got on top of her to hold her down by lying on her with my body. I was trying to stop her from continuing to say things to me so I grabbed her with my hands by her face and head. I kept telling her to shut up. [She] was struggling the whole time. I did not twist or turn [her] by her head. I am sure she got the mark on her face when I was holding her by the head, but I do not know how she got the other marks, shown [in the photos]. . . . I knew she was going to call security, so I unplugged the phone from the wall.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  laid  on  top  of  his  spouse  and  grabbed  her  face  hard enough to leave marks on her skin.   The  NCIS  report  of  investigation indicates  Applicant  and  his  spouse  engaged  in  a  physical  altercation,  and  they  both sustained bruises.  Applicant admitting pinning his spouse to the bed and grabbing her by  the face and head. She  had  “bruises  and abrasions  to  her chest,  shoulder, and face.”   Applicant  had  “a  small  injury”  to  his  neck  and  thumb.   Applicant’s commander ordered him to move out of base housing until further notice.  Applicant told NCIS that there were two prior incidents involving the police, one involving pushing in 2004, and one involving a verbal argument   in 2006.  No adverse inference is drawn from the incident in 2006. He received marital  counseling.    He  was  not  convicted  of  a  crime.   Applicant was unable to remember or unwilling to disclose details of the June 2007 altercation with his spouse at his hearing.  On July 2, 2019, Applicant responded to the  domestic violence allegations in the SOR. Applicant said, “[a]fter going to counseling and working together as a team, my wife and I came out strong and closer than ever before. We have found healthy ways to handle conflict, so I can say with utmost confidence that the behaviors from the past will not recur.”  5 In August 2019, Applicant was upset with his spouse because he believed she was having  an  extramarital  affair.    Applicant  and  his  spouse  argued  for  several hours.   They engaged in mutual shoving.  She took a photo album into the kitchen and began burning photographs.  His spouse said Applicant pulled  her  hair,  pushed  her  into  the  sink,  grabbed  her  crotch,  and  made  negative comments  about  her  crotch.    Applicant  said  he  could  have  pulled  her  hair; however, he did not remember pulling her hair.  She responded by calling the police. Applicant admitted the mutual pushing, and that he pushed her away from the stove because she was trying to burn photos of his deceased father.  The police arrested Applicant for the August 2019 altercation, and Applicant was charged with assault and battery.  Applicant told the magistrate “he pushed her by  the  stove,  and  also  that  he  may  have  pulled  her  hair.”    The  disposition information  relating  to  Applicant’s  assault  and  battery  charge  is  not  part  of  the  record. Applicant  said  he  did  not  understand  whether  the  court  proceeding  included  a  plea  of guilty.  On December 2, 2019, Applicant paid $450 to enable him to begin  a court-ordered 18-week domestic violence course.  Applicant said he started the course.  Applicant said he will be on probation until October 2020.  He might be able to have the charges dismissed.  Financial Considerations Applicant  is  currently  unemployed,  and  he  was  unemployed  from  July  2017,  to January  2018,  and  from  June  2006,  to  August  2007.   Applicant said he was unable to pay some of his debts because of unemployment.  He has a 70 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  The SOR alleges three delinquent debts totaling $34,013 as follows: SOR  ¶  4.a  alleges  Applicant  has  a  charged-off  credit-card  debt  for  $20,140. Applicant’s June 27, 2019 Equifax credit report indicates this debt was $5,879 past due, and  was  reported  delinquent  in  May  2017.    On  November  15,  2019,  the creditor wrote the debt was settled for $12,175, and the debt is resolved.   Applicant’s  January  6,  2020  TransUnion  credit  report  reflects  a  zero  balance, “Account paid in Full; was a Charge-off,” and “SETTLED-LESS THAN FULL.”  SOR  ¶  4.b  alleges  Applicant  has  a  store  debt  placed  for  collection  for  $9,878. Applicant’s June 27, 2019 Equifax credit report indicates the debt was in collections until May 2019 when a $4,270 payment was due as a balloon payment.  In June 2019,  the  creditor  sent  Applicant  a  bill  for  $4,270.    Applicant’s  January  6,  2020 TransUnion credit report reflects a zero balance, “Account Paid in Full; was a Collection,” and “SETTLED LESS THAN FULL.”  SOR ¶ 4.c alleges Applicant has a delinquent vehicle debt for $3,995. Applicant’s June  27,  2019  Equifax  credit  report  indicates  the  debt  was  $3,769  past  due,  and  was charged-off  in  the  amount  of  $16,026.    The  debt  became  delinquent  in September  2017.    Applicant’s  January  6,  2020  TransUnion  credit  report 6 reflects a zero balance, “Account paid in Full; was a Charge-off,” and “SETTLED-LESS THAN FULL.”  In addition to the SOR alleged debts, Applicant paid a charged-off credit-card debt for $6,747 for less  than  the full  amount  in  April 2019.   He  had multiple accounts in “pays as agreed status,” including a mortgage for about $696,000.  In July 2019, Applicant received financial counseling and generated a budget.   His  budget  indicated  his  net  monthly  income  is  $4,500;  his  monthly expenses total $4,256; monthly debt payments are $525; and his monthly remainder is $219.    According  to  his  budget,  his  spouse  pays  part of  the mortgage.  Applicant said he withdrew $50,000 from his Thrift Savings Plan account and used the funds to pay all of his delinquent debts.  Applicant has filed all of his state and federal tax returns for the previous five years. Character Evidence In 2019, Applicant received an excellent annual performance evaluation.  A co-worker  who  has  known  Applicant  for  nine  months,  a  co-worker  and  friend  who  has known him for two years, a friend who has known him for 10 years, a friend and co-worker who has known him for more than three years, and a major who has known him for a year provided letters supporting Applicant’s access to classified information.  The general sense of their letters is that Applicant is trustworthy, professional, diligent, highly motivated, an exceptional leader, helpful, intelligent, and innovative.  Applicant provides important contributions to mission accomplishment. The letters did not indicate his character references were aware of the contents of the SOR. Nigeria Nigeria  is  the  largest  economy  and  most  populous  country  in  Africa  with  an estimated population of more than 190 million, which is expected to grow to 400 million by 2050 and become the third most populous country in the world after China and India. Nigeria had an estimated gross domestic product of 375 billion USD in 2018. Although Nigeria’s economy has become more diversified, crude oil sales have continued to be the main source of export earnings and government revenues. Despite persistent structural weaknesses such as a deficient transportation infrastructure, the Nigerian economy grew briskly for the decade ending in 2013. The growth rate slowed in 2014, owing in large part to the fall in oil prices, and in 2016 and 2017 Nigeria experienced its first recession in over two  decades  before  rebounding  in  2018.  The  gains  from  economic  growth  have  been uneven; more than 60% of the population lives in poverty. The United States is the largest foreign investor in Nigeria, with U.S. foreign direct investment concentrated largely in the petroleum/mining and wholesale trade sectors. At $2.2 billion in 2017, Nigeria is the second largest U.S. export destination in Sub-Saharan Africa. The United States and Nigeria have a bilateral trade and investment framework agreement. In 2017, the two-way trade in goods between the United States and Nigeria totaled over $9 billion. . . .  Nigeria and the United States belong to a number of the same international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund, 7 World  Bank,  and  World  Trade  Organization.  Nigeria  also  is  an  observer  to  the Organization of American States. Nigeria  is  a  federal  republic  composed  of  36  states  and  the  Federal  Capital Territory. In 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress party was elected to a four-year term in the first successful democratic transfer of power from a  sitting  president  in  the  country’s  history.  In  February  2019,  he  was  re-elected  for  a second  term.  Notwithstanding  important  steps  forward  on  consolidating  democracy, Nigeria continues to face the formidable challenges of terrorist attacks, inter-communal conflicts, crime, kidnapping, and public mistrust of the government. The U.S. Department of State travel advisory for Nigeria is Level 3: Reconsider Travel due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and maritime crimes; and Level 4: Do Not Travel to Borno and Yobe States and Northern Adamawa State due to terrorism.    The  U.S.  Embassy  has  limited  ability  to  provide emergency  services  to  U.S.  citizens  beyond  Abuja  and  Lagos  and  their  immediate surrounding areas. U.S. Government employees are subject to movement constraints as security conditions warrant. Both Abuja and Lagos are assessed by the Department of State as being high-threat locations for terrorist activity directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests. U.S. Government personnel are currently prohibited from traveling to Borno due to terrorist threats against United States and European citizens located in Borno. Boko Haram, and ISIS-West Africa, both of which are designated Foreign Terrorist Organizations,  are  active  in  Nigeria.  Boko  Haram  seeks  to  replace  the  Nigerian government with an Islamic state, establish an Islamic caliphate across Africa, avenge military offenses against the group, and destroy any political or social activity associated with Western society. It conducts attacks primarily on civilian and regional military targets. ISIS-West Africa also seek to implement its strict interpretation of Sharia and replace the Nigerian government with an Islamic state. Boko  Haram  and  ISIS-West  Africa  continued  to  conduct  attacks  against government  and  security  forces  in  the  northeast,  which  resulted  in  deaths,  injuries, abductions,  and  the  capture  and  destruction  of  property.  Boko  Haram  attacks  did  not appear  to  discriminate  between  civilians  and  government  officials,  whereas  ISIS-West Africa  tended  to  generally  focus  on  government  and  security  forces,  while  trying  to cultivate  stronger  ties  with  local  communities,  including  by  providing  limited  social services.  The  Nigerian  military  has  expanded  its  presence  in  parts  of  northeastern Nigeria, but the northeast remains an active zone of combat, as Boko Haram and ISIS- West Africa insurgents continue to carry out attacks. While  Boko  Haram  no  longer  controls  as  much  territory  as  it  once  did,  the  two insurgencies nevertheless maintain the ability to stage forces in rural areas and launch attacks against civilian and military targets across the northeast. Boko Haram continued to employ indiscriminate suicide bombings targeting the local civilian populations. ISIS- West  Africa  targeted  civilians  with  attacks  and  kidnappings  less  frequently  than  Boko Haram, but employed targeted acts of violence and intimidation against civilians in order 8 to expand its area of influence and gain control over critical economic resources. As part of a violent and deliberate campaign, ISIS-West Africa also targeted government figures, traditional leaders, and contractors. Both groups have carried out more than 600 to 700 attacks  in  Nigeria  using  small  arms,  captured  military  equipment,  suicide  bombers, improvised  explosive  devices  ,  vehicle-borne    IEDs,  ambushes,  and kidnappings. In  2018,  Boko  Haram  recruited  and  forcefully  conscripted  child  soldiers,  and  it carried  out  scores  of  suicide  bombings,  many  by  young  women  and  girls  forced  into service. The group conducted abductions and subjected many abducted women and girls to sexual and gender-based violence, including forced marriage and rape. The Nigerian government investigated attacks by Boko Haram and ISIS-West Africa and took steps to prosecute their members, although the majority of suspected insurgent group supporters were held in military custody without charge. Other human rights issues reported in Nigeria during 2018 included unlawful and arbitrary killings, forced disappearances, and torture by both government and non-state actors;  prolonged  arbitrary  detention  in  life-threatening  conditions,  particularly  in government  detention facilities;  harsh and  life-threatening  civilian  detentions  in military facilities,  often  based  on  flimsy  or  no  evidence;  and  infringement  on  citizens’  privacy rights.  The  government  took  steps  to  investigate  alleged  abuses  but  fewer  steps  to prosecute officials who committed violations. Impunity remained widespread at all levels of government. 