In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  1.a-1.b,  1.h,  and  1.n, with explanations. His admissions are incorporated as findings of fact. He either denied, or  neither  admitted  nor  denied  the  remaining  SOR  allegations.  After  a  review  of  the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He began working at his present job in March 2017. He pointed out that his current position is somewhat irregular in providing full-time employment. He has been laid off several times and also works less than a full-time schedule. He has a high school diploma. He is twice divorced  and has three children.  The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  failed  to  file  his  2013-2017  federal  and  state income  tax  returns  as  required;  and  that  he  accumulated  14  delinquent  debts  totaling approximately $6,600. He  admitted  failing  to  file  his  federal  and  state  tax  returns  during  his  October  2017 background  interview.  The  debts  were  listed  in  credit  reports  from  August  2017,  May 2018, February 2019, and November 2019 .  Applicant attributed his tax filing problems to his divorce from his second wife. He claimed that in 2013 he could not resolve how to handle his taxes with his ex-wife, so he just did not file his federal or state tax returns for that year and continued not to file for subsequent years. He claimed that he went to two tax preparing services, but he did not use either one to file his returns. He still has not filed his federal or state returns for tax years 2013-2017.  Applicant  failed  to  document  that  he  addressed  any  of  his  delinquent  debts, either through payments, or proof of a legitimate dispute over the debt. He claimed that he was on a payment plan for one of the debts  and making small payments until he could no longer afford to do so. He failed to provide documentation supporting this  assertion.  All  the  debts  remain  unpaid.  In  addition  to  the  unpaid  SOR  debts, Applicant  also  testified  that  he  was  in  arrears  on  his  child  support,  behind  on  four  car 2 payments,  and  delinquent  on  his  cell  phone  bill  . Applicant stated that he was unable to make any progress toward paying his debts because of his reduced work schedule.  He  has  tried  to  supplement his income  with  outside  construction  work, but  it  has  not  produced  significant  income  for  him.  Applicant  stated  that  some  of  his medical  debts  were  due  to  a  heart  condition  that  he  was  treated  for  in  2014  or  2015.  