In Applicant’s SOR response, he made admissions related to SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a.  He also provided extenuating and mitigating information. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow. Applicant is a 58-year-old senior engineer, who has been employed by his current employer for 19 years.  He held a security clearance with access to sensitive compartmented information  from 1986 to 2017.  He believes that if his security clearance is reinstated he will be able to assist with problem-solving in the  intelligence  community.   He  will be able  to make  important  contributions  to national security.  He has been married for 29 years.  He has three children.  In 1985, Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering.   He  received  one  master’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering  and  computer engineering, and a second master’s degree in networks and computer security.  Sexual Behavior and Personal Conduct SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  2.a  allege  from  about  2012  to  2014,  while  granted  access  to classified  information,  Applicant  solicited  prostitutes  about  six  times.  Applicant  said  he solicited prostitutes five or six times.  Applicant had a lengthy career performing numerous high-risk missions acting in a covert capacity on behalf of a non-DOD agency, which will be referred to as another government agency .  While on close-contact sensitive classified missions outside the United States on behalf of an AGA, Applicant befriended and deceived foreign nationals and U.S. citizens.  He was successful at exploiting others 2 in support of the mission.  Applicant believed he was not psychologically equipped or trained for such missions.  He was psychologically “over his head” because of the circumstances of the missions.  He was taking AndroGel, a medication which increased his libido and aggressiveness, and he believed, AndroGel adversely affected or  contributed  to  his  decisions  to  seek  sexual  release  from  prostitutes.   AndroGel was part of his high-dosage testosterone therapy and was prescribed by his physician.  His dose of AndroGel was reduced by half after his last involvement with a prostitute in 2014.  His medication does not currently affect his judgment.  From 2012 to 2014, Applicant held a security clearance with access to  SCI.  Applicant engaged in sexual intercourse with the prostitutes while he was on solo missions without proper psychological support.  He was “embedding himself into organizations and getting to know people and deceiving them.”   He did not have anyone on his team to address his concerns and issues.  He described his behavior with prostitutes as a “catastrophic personal failure” and as “totally unacceptable.”  He did not engage in sexual activity with prostitutes before 2012 or after 2014.  The prostitutes in the foreign country worked in licensed bordellos, and Applicant’s engaging in sex with them for money was not a crime.  He did not consume alcohol before going to the bordellos.  He went to different bordellos sometimes in different cities.  The AGA knew what city Applicant was located in; however, the AGA did not know when he went to a bordello.  Applicant paid the prostitutes with cash, and the prostitutes did not know his name.  He believed he paid about  $100  each  time.    He  did  not  bring  identification  documents  to  the bordello.  He engaged in sexual intercourse with the prostitutes in the bordello, and he used a condom.  He assumed the women in the bordello were old  enough  to  be  legally  authorized  to  engage  in  such  conduct  in  the  foreign  country where he engaged in sex with them.  He suggested that the bordello would not be licensed by the foreign government without ensuring the women engaging in sex were not  minors.  He  did  not  know  the  nationality  of  the  prostitutes.    He described the sex with the prostitutes as “the release to keep myself sane” and to maintain his “balance.”  When  Applicant  was  on  an  overseas  mission,  he  maintained  security.  He conceded his conduct with prostitutes while on a mission was “extremely risky.”  He denied that he engaged in any conversation with the prostitutes.  He said: I talk to no one. There’s no reason to talk to anyone. Everyone’s a threat. Any conversation with anyone – in the plane on the street – it all represents a threat. There’s no reason to talk to anybody about anything. I mean, when I was doing these things, I was completely isolated socially, other than the people that I was deceiving --  *  *  * 3 Again, for each one  of  these  missions,  it  was  isolation.  Again, everyone represents  a  threat.  Every  person.  It’s  just  the  shopkeeper.  There’s  no sense  in  engaging  in  conversations  with  anyone.  You  engage  in  a conversation  with  someone  normally,  and  then  all  of  a  sudden  it’s,  well, why are you here? And then, what are you doing? Or, what’s the nature of your  business?  And  there’s  no  good  that  comes  from  any  of  those conversations.  Applicant conceded, “I admit fully, without reservation, that I put myself at risk, I put the mission  at  risk,  and  it  was  wrong.”    His  missions  on  behalf  of  the  AGA  were successfully accomplished notwithstanding Applicant’s involvement with prostitutes.  Applicant was supposed to report to the AGA occasions when he was stopped or detained going to or exiting a place or any problems.  He disclosed operational errors  because  they  put  the  mission  and  lives  at  risk.    The  first  time  Applicant disclosed  his  involvement  with  prostitutes  was  in  May  2017  before  he  took  an  AGA polygraph  test.   He  believes  he  passed  the  polygraph  test administered after his disclosures about his involvement with prostitutes.  He said he did not disclose his involvement with prostitutes before 2017 because at the time of the conduct he perceived it was not wrong to patronize prostitutes while on a mission, and from 2014 to 2017, he suppressed the information.  Patronizing prostitutes was legal and accepted in that country.  He said, “I buried stuff that I did, and this all fell in that same category.”  He further explained, “I buried it, along with all the other things that I did to survive.”  He put the information away, and then he forgot about  it.    In  June  2017,  AGA  revoked  Applicant’s  SCI  access  because  of  his involvement with prostitutes from 2012 to 2014.   AGI cited the repeated acts of engaging  in  sex  with  prostitutes  over several years, and  noted  it was  “even  more of a concern that he was engaging in prostitution in a foreign country while assigned there for employment with the U.S. Government.”  In September 2017, Applicant’s first appeal of the revocation of his SCI access was denied.  In December 2017, the AGA decision to revoke his SCI access was final.  During Applicant’s involvement with prostitutes, he was unaware of the prohibitions against  supporting  human  trafficking  through  providing  financial  support  to  entities engaged in prostitution.  The Trafficking Victims Protection Act  of 2000 is a federal law addressing trafficking in persons. The TVPA prohibits trafficking related- conduct, including patronizing, or soliciting of a person for the purposes of a commercial sex  act,  in  which  the  commercial  sex  act  is  induced  by  force,  fraud,  or  coercion,  or  in which the person induced to perform such an act has not attained 18 years of age. See 22 U.S.C. § 7101 et seq. Extraterritorial jurisdiction does not apply to Applicant’s conduct because  it  occurred  outside  of  the  United  States,  and  the  other  statutory  exceptions establishing extraterritorial jurisdiction in the TVPA do not apply in this case. See Caroline A  Fish,  Extraterritorial  Human  Trafficking  Prosecutions:  Eliminating  Zones  of  Impunity Within the Limits of International Law and Due Process, St. John’s L. Rev. Vol. 91, No. 2, . AGA’s policies against human trafficking from 2012 to 2014 are not part of the file. 4 At  the  time  he  engaged  in  solicitation  or  patronization  of  prostitutes  outside  the United States, Applicant did not know whether the women were coerced or fraudulently induced  to  engage  in  prostitution  at  the  bordellos.  The  women  could  have  been  from Russia or other nations of heightened security concern.  Applicant was not fluent in the language of the country where the mission occurred, and persons in the bordello may have realized he was an American.  The training that he received on human trafficking was perfunctory “check the box, answer the question,” and it was not sufficient to  cause  Applicant  to  think  about  the  law  or  prohibitions  against  trafficking  before  he engaged in sexual intercourse with prostitutes.  After  his  security  clearance  was  revoked,  Applicant  received  psychological counseling for three sessions from an AGA-cleared psychologist.  He needed counseling to cope with the years of AGA-authorized lying to complete AGA missions.    He  decided  that  he  could  not  engage  in  future  missions  involving deception.    He  accepted  responsibility  for  his  “catastrophic  moral  failure”  and “catastrophic mistake” relating to his sexual intercourse with prostitutes.  Applicant’s spouse has been employed by AGA since 1986, and she is aware his security clearance was revoked.  She did not ask, and he did not tell her the reason his security clearance was revoked.  He did not want anyone who  is  close  to  him  to  know  about  his  patronization  of  prostitutes  because  he  is embarrassed  about  his  behavior.    He  conceded  he  has  a  personal  and professional  interest  in  keeping  his  involvement  with  prostitutes  a  secret.    If someone attempted to use his involvement with prostitutes to coerce or extort classified information from him, he would inform security, law enforcement, and his spouse about his involvement with prostitutes.  In sum, Applicant promised that he would not behave in the manner alleged in the SOR in the future.  He will not be exposed to the pressure of using deception and ingratiating himself with others in a covert role because he will not return to employment involving  his  covert-intelligence  activity.    He  requested  reinstatement  of  his security clearance out of a sense of duty and patriotism.   He has the skills and ability to contribute to national security, and he wanted to use those skills to benefit the United States.  Character Evidence Applicant has more than 30 years of employment in the intelligence sector.  In 1996, he received letters of commendation from President Clinton, the Director of AGA, and the Deputy Director of AGA.  He received a citation for a complex collection operation in 1995, and he was praised for his courage, attention to detail, and technical expertise in a field operation.  In 1997, Applicant received  a  commendation  from  the  Director  of  AGA.  In  1997  and  1998,  he  received Certificates of Distinction from AGA.  He also received some classified awards.  5 Aside  from  his  activities  with  prostitutes  from  2012  to  2014,  Applicant  had  a flawless  record.    He  accepted  numerous  missions  which  entailed  a  risk  of capture and death.  The circumstances of his life from 2012 to 2014 were  anomalous  and  will  not  recur,  and  he  will  not  be  involved  with  prostitutes  in  the future.    He  never  improperly  disclosed  classified  information.    He described himself as an honest, trustworthy person, and he noted that he has previously reported security-related incidents or mistakes.  His loyalty and dedication to the United States are impeccable.  