The SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about August 2014 to at least January 2018, and that he intends to use marijuana in the future .  When  Applicant  answered  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegation  without comment. After considering the FORM, including Applicant’s response to the SOR , and Applicant’s response to the FORM , I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is 31 years old and unmarried. He was in a cohabitant relationship as of his July 2017 application for a DOD clearance. He earned an associate’s degree in August 2010 and a bachelor’s degree in December 2016. He has been employed as a proposal analyst with a defense contractor since April 2017. There is no evidence that he has ever held a DOD security clearance.  On July 10, 2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a security clearance  application    on  which  he  disclosed  that  he  had  used  marijuana recreationally  in  college  at  a  frequency  of  two  to  four  times  a  week,  primarily  on  the weekends,  between  approximately  August  2014  and  December  2016.  He  responded affirmatively to an inquiry concerning whether he intended to use marijuana in the future and stated, “Accounting for its trend toward legalization I will most likely use it when it can be done in a way that does not violate state law.” Applicant also responded “Yes” to an inquiry concerning whether he had been involved in the last seven years in the “illegal purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving, handling or sale of a drug or controlled substance.”  He disclosed that he had purchased marijuana every three to four weeks between August 2014 and December 2016 “to support consumption during college.”  He denied any intention to purchase marijuana in the future.  On April 12, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel Management . He indicated about his drug involvement that he had purchased marijuana through a previous girlfriend’s drug-dealing contacts about twice a week between August 2014 and December 2016. He consumed marijuana two to four times a week in his residence or at his ex-girlfriend’s residence with his ex-girlfriend and 2 her  roommate.  Applicant  volunteered  that,  after  completing  his  SCA,  he  ate  cookies containing marijuana while alone in his home on October 4, 2017, and again on January 1, 2018. He also smoked some marijuana on the latter occasion. Applicant admitted that he knew his use of marijuana was illegal. He purchased the marijuana that he used in October 2017  and  January  2018  from  a  drug  dealer  in  October  2017.  Regarding  his  future intentions, Applicant told the OPM investigator that he has thought about using marijuana in the future in a state where it is legal. He acknowledged knowing that he should not do so, but also stated that it is tempting to use marijuana in a store where it can be purchased legally, and that he might use marijuana again. Applicant denied any current association with  any  individuals  who  use  illegal  drugs,  and  he  claimed  marijuana  had  no  adverse impact on his personality, judgment, reliability, or ability to hold a confidence. Applicant also denied that his use of illegal drugs could be a source of blackmail or coercion because his cohabitant girlfriend knows about his drug use. On April 16, 2018, the OPM investigator re-interviewed Applicant by telephone. There is no indication that Applicant’s drug use was discussed during that contact.  By way of interrogatories, the DOD provided Applicant with summarized reports of his  April  12,  2018  and  April  16,  2018  interviews  with  the  OPM  investigator.  Applicant affirmed on May 10, 2019 that the summarized reports were accurate without any comment or corrections.  On June 11, 2019, an SOR was issued to Applicant alleging that he used marijuana and  that  he  intends  to  use  it  in  the  future.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without comment  on  July  11,  2019.  In  the  Government’s  FORM,  Applicant  was  informed  that marijuana  remains  illegal  under  federal  law,  despite  its  legalization  in  some  states.  In response, Applicant asserted on January 6, 2020, that he is not an unacceptable security risk. He could not be coerced into providing any privileged information; that his previous and current employers can attest to his character as hardworking and team-oriented; and that he has received numerous awards as well as a promotion due to his work ethic and moral  fiber.  With  respect  to  the  conflict  between  some  state  laws  and  the  federal government regarding the use of marijuana, Applicant stated: The current legal and cultural status of marijuana is baffling. This substance is currently enjoyed recreationally in an ever-increasing number of states and utilized medicinally in even more. Despite being legal at the state level, the federal government maintains a schedule one status for marijuana. However, the federal government has elected to not enforce these laws in states which have allowed for legal/decriminalized use. The mixed message that is being sent  by  the  federal  government  indicates  that  the  current  law  is  now outdated.  Therefore,  it  is  questionable  that  my  past  use  shows  a  willful disregard for complying with laws, rules and regulations; as current federal policy  doesn’t  comply  with  the  law  itself,  which  serves  to  undermine  its authority.  Applicant’s response to the FORM is silent on the issue of whether he intends to use marijuana in the future. He presented no documentation of his work performance or any 3 character  references  to  corroborate  his  assertions  of  his  value  to  his  past  or  present employer. 