Applicant,  40,  is  single  and  has  three  daughters  aged  21,  19,  and  14.  She graduated from high school in 1998 and attended a technical school, but did not receive a certificate or degree. She previously worked for defense contractors from 2011 to 2014 and  held  a  secret  security  clearance.  Since  April  2018,  she  has  worked  for a  defense contractor as an air craft painter.  In  approximately  2015,  a  former  co-worker  and  now  ex-friend  agreed  to  help Applicant move furniture. She paid for the rental truck, and the rental agreement was in her name. Applicant’s ex-friend asked a friend of his to help with the move, and they drove the  rental truck  together. While  they  were  driving  the  truck,  they  rear-ended Applicant, who was in her personal vehicle with her middle daughter. Immediately after the accident, Applicant called the police, and they came to the scene of the accident. The driver of the truck  was  given  two  tickets.  Additionally,  she  reported  the  accident  to  her  insurance company and the rental company. Ultimately, she paid $500 out of her own pocket to pay for  the  repairs  for  her  vehicle  and  received  no  money  from  her  insurance  company. Applicant was arrested in October 2016, and charged with felony forgery and four counts of felony insurance fraud related to the 2015 incident. She plead not guilty. In September 2017, the charges were dismissed, but other related charges were filed against her. In 2018,  the  case  was  continued,  and  since  then  she  has  not  heard  from  the  court.  The hearing  record  was  left  open,  in  part,  to  allow  Applicant  to  submit  documentation  and clarification as to the status of the pending charges.  Applicant hired a credit-counseling company in July 2019, after receiving the SOR. The  record  evidence  indicates  the  total debt  being  addressed by  the  credit-counseling company is $8,615, which includes SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.k-1.o. She made an initial payment of $147 in July 2019. She set up biweekly payments of $132 to be deducted from her checking account. She did not provide proof of these payments at or after the hearing. According  to  Applicant,  SOR  ¶¶  1.b,  1.c,  1.e,  1.g,  and  1.p  are  also  being  addressed through  this  service,  but  the  documentation  she  provided  does  not  substantiate  her claims.  In 2017, Applicant was in an accident and her vehicle was totaled. In her response to the SOR she asserted that the $14,364 debt, alleged as SOR ¶1.f, that stemmed from her accident was resolved. She testified that her insurance covered the majority of the outstanding  balance;  however,  she  did  not  have  gap  insurance,  and  the  remaining balance is $2,442. The collection agency contacted her approximately one month before 2 the  hearing,  and  she  set  up  a  settlement  agreement  to  make  automatic-biweekly payments of $47 and pay a total of $1,000. The first payment was scheduled for the week after the hearing; however, she provided no substantiating documentation at or after the hearing to demonstrate that she has made payments toward this debt.  SOR  ¶¶  1.h  through  1.m  are  medical  debts  totaling  $706.  Many  of  these  debts were  for  her  children.  She  had  health  insurance  but  could  not  afford  the  co-pays  or emergency room bills. SOR ¶¶ 1.k-1.m are included in the credit-counseling agreement, but she provided no proof of payments other than a July 2019 payment of $147. In her response to the SOR, she claimed that she was working to settle and resolve SOR ¶¶ 1.h-1.j;  however,  she  failed  to  provide  proof  of  payment  or  settlement  agreements.  The  credit-counseling  company  helped  Applicant  create  a  written  budget  last summer. She testified that she is up-to-date on her rent, utilities, car payment, and state and federal income taxes. However, Applicant’s August 2019 credit bureau report reflects 3 new unalleged delinquent debts totaling $2,737.  In  October  2019,  Applicant  made  a  $400  payment  toward  an  unalleged  and unreported medical debt. Additionally, she has been voluntarily working 16 to 24 hours of overtime each week to better her financial situation.  Applicant provided three letters of recommendations. He supervisor described her as dependable,  proficient,  hardworking,  and  positive.  Her  other  character  letters  describe her  as  a  valuable  member  of  the  community,  reliable,  and  a  consistent  performer. Additionally, Applicant is involved in her daughter’s school and hosts events to support various programs.  