Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 43-year-old employee of a defense contractor, currently on medical leave.  She has held  a  security  clearance  since  October  of  2011.    She  is divorced,  and  has  no  children.  Applicant  attributes  her  current  financial  difficulties  to periods of unemployment, and to medical issues.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations is  addressing 1.a. Applicant admits that she has a past-due debt to Creditor A in the amount of about  $15,087.  Despite  having  an  additional  month  to  submit  documentation  to  show she this  admitted  debt,  Applicant  has  only  submitted  undated correspondence from Creditor A showing this debt is still past due.   This  allegation  is  found  against Applicant. 1.b. Applicant admits that she has a past-due debt to Creditor B in the amount of about  $14,132.  Despite  having  an  additional  month  to  submit  documentation  to  show she is addressing this admitted debt, Applicant has only submitted correspondence from Creditor B showing this debt is still past due.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c.  and  1.d  Applicant  admits  that  she  has  past-due  debts  to  Creditor  C  in  an amount  totaling  about  $7,690,  and  has  submitted  documentation  show  she  has addressed these debts.  These allegations are found for Applicant. 1.e. Applicant admits that she has a past-due debt to Creditor E in the amount of about $1,966. Despite having an additional month to submit documentation to show she is addressing  this admitted  debt,  Applicant  has  only  resubmitted  correspondence from Creditor E showing this debt is still past due.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.f.~1.l  Applicant  admits  that  she  has  past-due  medical  debts  in  an  amount totaling  about  $3,073.  Despite  having  an  additional month  to  submit  documentation  to show  she  is  addressing  these  admitted  debts,  Applicant  has  only  resubmitted correspondence  from  these  creditors  showing  these  debts  are  still  past  due.   These allegations are found against Applicant. 2 