In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the two SOR allegations.  He also provided extenuating and mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow. Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  software  engineer,  and  a  defense  contractor  has employed him since 2017.  In 2008, he graduated from high school, and in 2011, he received a bachelor’s degree in applied mathematics and statistics.  He has never married, and he does not have children.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse In 2008, Applicant began using marijuana when he was a freshman in college and living in the college dormitories.  In college, he used marijuana with varying degrees of frequency about every three months.  He received marijuana from friends, and he did not purchase the marijuana that he used.  He knew it was against the college’s rules to use marijuana.  From 2012 to 2017, Applicant used marijuana two or three times a year.  He  used  marijuana  in  his  residence  with  his  girlfriend  in  2017,  and  his  marijuana  use occurred in a state where marijuana possession is illegal.  She procured the marijuana and brought it into his residence.  Their live-in relationship ended in November  2018.    He  probably  had  marijuana  in  his  residence  as  recently  as November 2018.  Applicant’s most recent use of marijuana was in July 2018.   Applicant  used  marijuana  once  in  2018.    In  July  2018,  Applicant’s  sister provided  edible  marijuana  to  him  in  a  state  where  possession  of  small  amounts  of marijuana  does  not  violate  state  law.    Applicant  did  not  consider whether he was in violation of any laws or whether marijuana possession and use would have an adverse effect on his employment when he used marijuana.  He knew it violated federal law for him to use marijuana.  He did not think he would be caught and punished if he used marijuana.  When  he  completed  his  SF  86,  Applicant  admitted  marijuana  use,  and  he  was aware that using marijuana was significant to the process of approval for a public trust position.  He indicated on his SF 86 that he intended to continue to use marijuana.  He used marijuana after completing his SF 86 because he was in a state where possession of small amounts of marijuana is legal, and he was in the presence of his siblings, “and they were all using.”  Recently,  Applicant  informed  his  siblings  that  they  were  not  supposed  to  use marijuana in his presence in the future, and if they chose to do so, he would leave and it would adversely affect his relationship with them.  Some of his friends used marijuana in his presence in 2017 and 2018, and Applicant did not want to sever his relationships with them.  Less than two months before his hearing, Applicant was at a party where marijuana was being used, and he did not leave the party.  He subsequently asked some of his friends not to use marijuana in his presence, and he promised to leave their presence if they started using marijuana.  If someone  started  to  use  marijuana  in  his  presence,  Applicant  would  leave.   Applicant said his employer’s policy was to preclude use of marijuana at work, but he was unaware  of  any  policy  precluding  marijuana  use  during  off-duty  time.    His employer conducts drug testing.  Applicant has never tested positive for the presence of an illegal drug in his body.  After his April 20, 2019 Office of Personnel Management  personal subject interview  Applicant decided that he would not use marijuana in the future because he  realized  it  would  have  a  serious  negative  effect  on  his  employment  and  access  to sensitive  or  classified  information.    On  October  31,  2019,  Applicant received  a  substance abuse  evaluation from  a person  who  is  a  licensed  clinical  social worker , certified substance abuse counselor , master addiction counselor , and substance abuse professional .  Appellant advised the evaluator that  he  “sometimes”  used  marijuana  with  his  girlfriend,  and  his  use  was  limited  to  “‘a couple  of  hits’  every  six  to  nine  months.”    He  indicated  his  most  recent marijuana use was in July 2018.  The evaluator concluded Applicant has “a low probability of an alcohol/substance use disorder” and he “is not at risk of relapse or return  to  his  previous  behavior.”    She  did  not  diagnose  Applicant  with  a substance use disorder, and she concluded no treatment was warranted.  She believes Applicant “is fully capable of safeguarding classified information,” and she said he is “fit for duty in a position affecting national security.”  Applicant has increased his physical exercises for better health and wellbeing.  Applicant does not believe that marijuana use is important to him, and he does not intend to use it in the future.  Applicant agreed “to random drug testing and 3 to  immediate  and  unqualified  revocation  of  [his]  security  clearance  in  the  event  of  any future positive drug test.”  Character Evidence Applicant received excellent performance reviews.   The general sense of Applicant’s eight written character statements is that Applicant is honest, loyal, reliable, trustworthy, and sober.  He has ended his marijuana use and has made it clear that he will not remain in the vicinity when marijuana is being used by others.  