Applicant is a 59-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for her current employer since October 2018. She has a bachelor’s degree that she earned in  2017.  She  married  in  1980  and  divorced  in  1983.  She  does  not  have  children.  at 12, 36, 56; GE 1, 5; AE D) Applicant  worked  in  human  resources  for  a  county  government  from  2006  to 2018.  She  received  written  disciplinary  action  in  February  2015  for  “unacceptable personal  conduct.”  The  county  determined  that  she  engaged  in  conduct  that  could  be perceived as a conflict of interest.  Applicant  was  terminated  from  her  county  position  in  July  2018  for  “grossly job  performance  and  unacceptable  personal  conduct.”  She  filed  for inefficient unemployment insurance benefits, which were initially denied. An employee in her state can be denied unemployment benefits if the employee is unemployed because she was discharged for misconduct connected with her work. Applicant appealed, and a hearing was  held  with  Applicant  and  two  county  employees  as  witnesses.  Applicant  won  her appeal. The Appeals Referee determined that the allegations were not supported by the weight  of  the  evidence,  and  that  Applicant  “was  not  discharged  for  misconduct connected with the work.”  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial  problems,  including  delinquent  debts  and unfiled  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns.  The  SOR  alleges  the  unfiled  tax  returns and  four  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $16,400.  The  debts  are  for  clothing  ,  a timeshare  ,  medical  expenses  ,  and  a  bank  credit  card  .  The 2 allegations are established through Applicant’s admissions and a November 2018 credit report.  Applicant  successfully  worked  in  a  metropolitan  area  until  her  fiancé  passed away in about 2000. She attributed her financial problems to moving to an economically depressed  rural  area  in  about  2000  to  care  for  her  mother.  She  experienced unemployment  and  underemployment.  She  lost  work  while  caring  for  ill  relatives,  and she  incurred  expenses  for  their  funerals  after  they  passed  away,  including  her  mother who  passed  away  shortly  before  Applicant’s  hearing.  She  also  had  educational expenses and her own medical issues.  Applicant  did  not  file  her  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  when  they  were due for tax years 2011 through 2018. She stated that she was informed by a friend that she was exempt from filing tax returns if she completed a certain form. She was unable to identify what form, and she admitted that she never filed any such form with the IRS. She also stated that she thought the exemption might have been based on working for a non-profit organization, but she admitted that she worked for a county government. She had not filed any of her returns as of the date of her hearing. She stated that her state garnished  her  wages,  and  that  she  owed  the  state  about  $10,000.   Applicant  stated  that  she  is  now  able  to  address  her  financial  issues,  and  she plans to do so. She received financial counseling in about 2018. She submitted copies of  her  federal  income  tax  returns  for  2017  and  2018.  They  were  signed  on  April  21, 2020. The returns do not indicate that Applicant owes any federal taxes for those years. She did not submit any information about the other unfiled federal and state income tax returns. She indicated that she was waiting for an offer-in-compromise from her state to settle her delinquent state taxes. She did not provide information about what, if anything, is owed to the IRS. She did not pay any of the debts alleged in the SOR.  Applicant  provided  copies  of  her  performance  appraisals  from  the  county government. She was regarded as a trusted and valuable employee.  