Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.f,  3.a,  3.b.  and  3.c,  with  explanations.  She denied SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g, also with explanations. She “admitted” SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b, though  I  construe  her  explanations  as  denials.  Her  admissions  and  explanations  are incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 46 years old. She was born in Nigeria. She married her husband in Nigeria in 1997, the year she came to the United States, at age 24. She became a U.S. citizen in 2003. Her husband is also a U.S. citizen. They have three children, ages 14, 12, and 10, all born in the United States.  Applicant  earned  master’s  degrees  in  2012  and  2013.  She  worked  for  large defense  contractors  from  2004  to  2014,  with  a  clearance  for  those  jobs.  Since  2014 she  has  worked  for  smaller  employers  in  the  defense  industry,  including  her  own company, which she opened in 2017. She does not hold a clearance currently.  Her husband is a real estate agent.  Applicant’s mother-in-law came from Nigeria to live with her in about 2009. Her mother-in-law  became  seriously  ill  and  Applicant  cared  for  her,  straining  the  family 2 finances. Her mother-in-law  returned to Nigeria at some point, and passed away in 2018.  Applicant’s  younger  brother  and  sister,  both  in  their  40s,  are  citizens  and residents of Nigeria. . They are both pastors in a church. They also manage  small  shops.  Applicant  was  in  Nigeria  in  December  2019,  shortly  before  the hearing, to bury her mother-in-law. Before then, she was last there in 2017, to bury her father. She went for about two weeks each time. Applicant speaks to her siblings about once a month.  Applicant  noted  that  she  held  a  clearance  before  and  her  Nigerian  family members  were  not  an  issue  previously.  She  recognizes  that  the  presence  of  Boko Haram in Nigeria raises a security concern but noted that “we have nothing to do with Boko Haram. . . .They are more of the northern Muslim part. We are Christian south.”  Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  has  incurred  eight delinquent  debts,  totaling  about  $81,755.  Three  of  the  debts  are  tax  liens.  The  debts are  proven  by  credit  reports  in  the  record    and  by  court  documents establishing judgments and liens.  SOR  ¶  1.a    is  a  charged-off  credit  card  with  a  bank.  Applicant documented that the account has been satisfied.  SOR ¶¶ 1.e  and 1.f  are judgments issued against Applicant in 2013  and  2017,  respectively,  for  unpaid  homeowners’  association  fees  relating  to  a rental  property.    Applicant  provided  documentation  that  both  of  the judgments were satisfied.  SOR ¶ 1.g  is a debt placed for collection by a cable company. Applicant denied  the  debt,  noting  that  she  has  a  current  account  there.    The  debt  is listed on her 2017 credit report as being delinquent since 2014.  Applicant testified that she does not recall owing this debt to the company in question. She has service from a different provider now.  She provided no documentation of the status of this debt. This debt is unresolved. SOR ¶ 1.h is a charged-off debt to a large retailer. No amount is alleged, though the  Government  alleges  that  the  account  remains  delinquent.  Applicant  denied  the allegation.    The  Government’s  evidence  shows  a  zero  balance  on  the account.  This account is resolved. SOR  ¶¶  1.b    and  1.c    are  state  tax  liens  entered  against Applicant  in  2016  and  2013,  respectively.    SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a federal tax lien issued against Applicant in 2015.  3 Applicant  owns  her  home  and  two  rental  properties.  One  of  her  tenants  fell behind  on  rent  when  the  tenant  became  hospitalized,  in  about  2012  or  2013.  The tenant  also  “trashed”  the  property.  Applicant  recognized  the  need  to  maintain  the mortgage  since  it  affected  her  credit,  but  fell  behind.  Applicant  is  trying  to  repair  the home  so  she  can  sell  it.  That  home  is  vacant,  and  the  other  one  is  occupied.  She attested that the mortgage on the occupied home is paid.  She said the current renter pays $2,100 in monthly rent, and she said she makes a profit after taxes, homeowner fees,  and  other  monthly expenses.    Applicant  attested that she and her husband are financially comfortable and are able to pay their monthly bills.  Applicant  fell  behind  on  her  taxes  in  about  2014  or  2015.    She  and her  husband  jointly  file  their  tax  returns  on  time  each  year,  through  an  accountant. Their  taxes  were  audited  by  the  Internal  Revenue  Service    and  authorities requested receipts related to her husband’s real estate business. The paperwork they submitted  for  the  audit  was  not  sufficient.    They  hired  an  accountant  to address the audit, but the accountant went out of business.  Applicant retained a law firm in 2018 to help her address the tax debts, and paid them $5,000.  She attested that she was paying the state tax debt every month, as directed by her lawyer. She said she pays about $150 or $300 per month towards the state tax debt.  Applicant testified that the tax firm told her not to  make  any  payments  towards  her  federal  tax  debt.    However,  she provided no documents to establish the current status of either the state or federal tax debts, or that the tax debts are being paid. Applicant’s February 2017 SCA included  questions asking if, in the  past seven years,  she  had  any  delinquencies  involving  enforcement,  such  as  judgments  entered against her liens placed against her property for failing to pay taxes or other debts, or had  any currently delinquent  federal debt.    Applicant  answered  “No”  and thereby  failed  to  disclose  her  judgments,  tax  liens    and  her federal tax debt, as alleged in the SOR. The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant’s  failure  to  disclose  those  debts  was deliberate.  Applicant answered the allegation by stating, “I admit but when I said NO, I explained that the tax audit was due to my husband[’s] job 1099 and try to explain responding to the question at that time.”  I interpret this answer as a denial and a reference to her explanations to the interviewing agent.  Applicant’s SCA also included a question asking for disclosure of delinquencies in the past seven years involving “routine accounts” such as charged-off accounts and accounts placed for collection.  Applicant answered “No” and thereby failed to disclose her debts alleged at SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.g, and 1.h. She answered the allegation by stating that she was not aware of the debts at that time, and also noted that these debts had been rectified.  4 When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  the administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief introductory explanations for each guideline, the adjudicative guidelines list potentially disqualifying  conditions  and  mitigating  conditions,  which  are  used  in  evaluating  an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the complexities  of  human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in  conjunction  with  the factors  listed  in  the  adjudicative  process.  The  administrative  judge’s  overarching adjudicative  goal  is  a  fair,  impartial,  and  commonsense  decision.  According  to  AG  ¶ 2, the entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the  “whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available, reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2 requires that “[a]ny doubt concerning personnel being considered for national security eligibility  will  be  resolved  in  favor  of  the  national  security.” In  reaching  this  decision,  I have  drawn  only  those  conclusions  that  are  reasonable,  logical,  and  based  on  the evidence contained in the record. Likewise, I have  not drawn inferences grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.14, the Government must present evidence to establish controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is responsible  for  presenting  witnesses  and  other  evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by applicant or proven by Department Counsel and has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.” A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary relationship  with  the  Government  predicated  upon  trust  and  confidence.  This relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of  the  possible  risk  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified information. Guideline F, Financial Considerations 