Applicant admitted all the allegations in SOR, but also avers “but I am disputing this  claim,”  in  reference  to  allegation  ¶  1.b.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor.   He has been employed  with the defense contractor since January of 2019, but does not currently hold a security clearance.  He is married, and has two children.     Applicant  also  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  “from  May  2011  to  October 2012,”  but  received  a  “Mental  Discharge  for  PTSD  [Post-Traumatic  Stress  Disorder].” He receives no military benefits.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  a  past-due  debt  in  the  amount  of  about $20,788, as the result of a car loan for vehicle #1.  It was “totaled in an accident,” but Applicant has done nothing vis-à-vis this admitted past-due debt. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt as the result of an apartment rental, but disputes the amount alleged, $1,997.   He  avers  “they  charged  for  a  couple  of  nail  holes,”  but  Applicant  has  submitted nothing further in support of this averment. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt in the amount of about $8,957, as the result of a car loan for vehicle #2.  It “had broken down and needed a new transmission,” but Applicant has done nothing vis- à-vis this admitted past-due debt. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.d.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  a  past-due  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of about  $894.    He  has  submitted  nothing showing  any  action  vis-à-vis  this  admitted  past-due  debt.  This  allegation  is  found against Applicant. 1.e.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  a  past-due  debt  in  the  amount  of  about $11,835,  as  the  result  of  a  car  loan  for  vehicle  #3.   Applicant  has  done  nothing  vis-à-vis  this  admitted  past-due  debt.  This  allegation  is found against Applicant. 2 