In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the factual allegations in the SOR . Applicant’s admissions are incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due  consideration  of  same,  I  make  the  following additional findings of fact: Background Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been serving with  her  current  employer,  initially  as  a  bilingual  medical  service  coordinator  since January 2017, and subsequently as a customer service lead since November  2018.  A 2006  high  school  graduate,  Applicant  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2013.  She  has never  served  with  the  U.S.  military.  She  has  never  been  married,  but  she  has  been cohabiting since 1990. She has no children. Financial Considerations Applicant has a lengthy negative employment history with repeated incidents that resulted in her termination from employment by various employers: as a cashier in 2009 for appearing at work hungover with a verified blood alcohol content of 0.04; as a loan originator in 2010 when her position was purportedly eliminated; as a consultative sales associate in 2012 for unsatisfactory performance; as a bartender in 2012 following a drug- related  arrest;  as  a  bilingual  human  resources  administrator  in  2014  for  unsatisfactory performance;  and  as  a  bilingual  debt  collector  in  2016  for  a  policy  violation  and unfavorable employment and conduct.  2 When Applicant completed her April 2018 e-QIP, she acknowledged that she had failed  to file  her federal  and  state  income  tax  returns for  the  tax  years  2015  and  2016 because she was unable to do so online, and because she did not have sufficient funds to  pay  her  income  taxes  at  the  appropriate  times.    When  she  was interviewed by an investigator from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management  in January 2019, she admitted that she still had not made any attempts to file her income tax returns or to pay any income taxes that she might owe for those years.  When she submitted her responses to the interrogatories on August 8, 2019, she again confirmed that she still had not filed her federal and state income tax returns, and that she did not have an installment agreement with the Internal Revenue Service .  She did, however, submit a Request for Transcript of Tax Return  to the IRS seeking account transcripts for the years in question. There was no transcript for the tax year 2015 submitted with her responses to the interrogatories, but there was one for the tax year 2016, and it reflected that as of July 31, 2019, no tax return had been filed.   In her November 2019 Answer to the SOR, she admitted that her federal and state income tax returns for those two years had still not been filed. It is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because she did  not  report  her  current  net  monthly  income;  monthly  expenses;  and  any  monthly remainder  that  might  be  available  for  discretionary  spending  or  savings.  There  is  no evidence of a budget. There is no evidence of financial counseling. In the absence of any financial information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in a better position financially than she had been. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse Applicant  was  a  recreational  substance abuser  whose  substance of  choice  was marijuana  –  a  Schedule  I  Controlled  Substance.  She  used  marijuana,  with  varying frequency, estimated at 10 to 15 times per year, from about September 2004 when she was in high school, and she continued using it through college until at least December 2017,  when  she  was  29  years old. She  used  marijuana  socially  with  other individuals. She generally used it when it was passed around, but on occasion, she purchased it from individual sources that she claimed she could not recall.  Her relationship with marijuana resulted in two arrests: •On  December  12,  2012,  when  she  was  24  years  old,  she  was  arrested  and charged with  possession of marijuana less than 200 grams, a felony;  maintaining a  drug  trafficking  place,  a  felony;  and    possession  of  drug  paraphernalia,  a misdemeanor.  On  October  29,  2013,  she  was  entered  into  a  diversion  program,  and charges    and    were  dismissed,  and  charge    was  deferred  upon  probation  by judgment. On May 8, 2015, charge  was dismissed.  She claimed that she was “unintentionally involved as [her] boyfriend was selling marijuana at [her] apartment while [she] was at work.” She added that she “would not have allowed that to happen at [her] place of residence had [she] known.”  Nevertheless, she continued using marijuana for another five years. 3 •On  January  16,  2013,  she  was  arrested  and  charged  with    bail  jumping,  a felony,  and    possession  of  drug  paraphernalia,  a  misdemeanor.  The  charges  were dismissed on August 28, 2015.  Applicant explained that the charges were related to  a  positive  drug  test  that  occurred  during  her  placement  in  the  diversion  program following her December 2012 arrest.  Applicant was never required to attend any drug-related counseling, education, or treatment.  She claims that she no longer associates with anyone who uses drugs “as she has since grown up and is more mature.  Moreover, she stated that she does “not plan on using, purchasing or distributing drugs in the future as [she has] matured in the last few years . . . .”  