Applicant  is  60  years  old.    He  avers,  “I  couldn’t  choose  the country where I was born, my ancestors were exiled to Siberia from Poland and Estonia where  they  were  fighting  against  the  Russian  Empire  for  freedom  of  their  countries.”  Applicant  was previously married to a Russian women in Russia; but is now married a second time to a native born American, and has two native born American  children.    In  1976,  he  attended  a  university  in  the  then Soviet Union.  However, in 1991, nearly 30 years ago, he fled the Soviet Union, and “applied  for  Political  Asylum.”    Applicant  has  worked  for  his employer since February 2016.   Guideline B – Foreign Influence 1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  his  father,  sister  and  two  children  from  a  previous marriage  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Russia.      He last saw his father in 2004, about 16 years ago.    He  has  little  contact  with  his  sister,  who  works  at  a  beauty salon ; and has not seen his children in “more 1  As  it  appears  that  much  of  GX  3  is  an  “Enhanced  Subject  Interview”  that  was  reviewed  by  Applicant, with numerous pen and ink changes by him; it will be considered to be certified as accurate, and cited as evidence in this case. 2 than 30 years,” since his divorce in 1984.  1.b.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  two  friends  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of Russia.  However,  he  has little  contact  with  them,  one  in  2014,  and  the  other  a former coworker, in 2016.  1.c.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  two  “associate”  who  are  citizens  and residents  of  Russia,  and  who  are  also  employed  by  the  Russian  government.  One works for the government “as a Deputy Govenor  for National Resources.”  He contacts this Deputy Governor “via Skype approximately 1 time every 1 to 2 years,” the last time being in 2017.  The other “holds a high position with the IRS working for the Russian government.”  He also contacts this Russian IRS official “via Skype approximately 1 time every 1 to 2 years,” the last time being in 2015.    These  last  two  associates  clearly  pose  the  potential  for  improper  foreign influence on Applicant. Administrative Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  about  Russia:  Russia  uses cyber operations as an instrument of intelligence collection to inform its decision-making and  benefit  its  economic  interests.  Russian  intelligence  services  have  conducted sophisticated and large-scale hacking operations to collect sensitive U.S. business and technology information. Based on the eight pages summary offered by the Government, Russia appears to be a significant threat to our national security. 