Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d, all with explanations. He denied SOR ¶ 2.a, but  only  as  to  the  date  of  the  arrest.  His  admissions  and  statements  are  incorporated into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 38 years old. He and his wife have been married for about three and a half years. They have two young children. Applicant earned his bachelor’s degree in 2004,  his  master’s  degree  in  2007,  and  his  Ph.D.  in  2013.  He  then  spent  about  two years  in  a  post-doctorate  fellowship  in  Europe,  until  December  2015.  He  was unemployed for most of 2016, until beginning his current job with a defense contractor in the United States, in October 2016. He has a $135,000 annual salary.  During his years in school, Applicant was in a band. During the summer of 2007, the  band  was  on  tour  in  a  large  U.S.  city  several  hundred  miles  from  his  home.  One night,  before  a  performance,  Applicant  was  sitting  in  the  back  of  the  band’s  van, reading. Two others got into the front seats and began to smoke marijuana.  This drew the attention of a nearby police officer, and all of the occupants of the van were pulled out and arrested.  Applicant spent about 20 hours in jail and was arraigned in court the next day on a charge of possession of marijuana. He said he was advised by legal counsel to plead 2 no contest so he would not have to return to court, in a city far from his home, to dispute the charge. He was placed on unsupervised probation for a year, after which the charge would  be  dismissed.    Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  use marijuana during his period of probation.  Applicant reported the arrest on his SCA, giving an estimated date of July 2007 .  In his Answer and at hearing, he gave the date as June 2007.  He has had no subsequent arrests or offenses.  Applicant  denied  using  marijuana  on  that  particular  occasion.    He provided a character letter from a friend of his who was there that night. In the letter, the friend  also  provided factual details  that  largely  comport with  Applicant’s  explanation  of what  happened.    The  record  does  not  include  police  or  court  documents  about the offense. In the letter, the friend also vouches for Applicant’s character. Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  1997,  when  he  was  in  high  school.  He reported  his  marijuana  use  on  his  October  2016  SCA.  He  reported  daily  use  of marijuana  from  1997  to  2000.  He  also  said,  “I  smoke  marijuana  on  occasion”  with  a frequency of “monthly or less.”   Applicant  also  used  marijuana  while  he  was  living  in  Europe.  He  knew  it  was illegal to possess marijuana in the country where he lived.  He also knew that his use and possession of marijuana was illegal in the U.S. under federal law.  Applicant  testified  that  he  used  marijuana  about  three  times  after  filling  out  his SCA.  His  use  was  confined  to  his  home.    His  last  use  of  marijuana  was  in December  2017.    He  acknowledged  that  engaging  in  illegal  activity    while  applying  for  a  clearance  was  “a  bit  of  a contradiction.”    Applicant  testified  that  it  became  clear  to  him  during  his background  interview    that  his  marijuana  use  might  negatively  impact  his eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.    He  testified, however, that  he thought he might not be granted a clearance, not because of the drug use, but because of his foreign ties.  Applicant  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  from  January  1999  to  May  2014, about 10 times.  He used the prescription medication oxycodone, without a prescription, a few times between May 2005 and May 2014.    Applicant  disclosed  his  use  of  these  substances  on  his  SCA,  and discussed his use in his background interview.  Applicant testified that if he were offered such substances again, he would not accept them. Applicant also disclosed on his SCA that he used poppy tea, from January 2007 to May 2013, about 50 times.  Applicant’s practice was to  purchase the  poppy  seeds  legally  from  a  flower  store,  and  then  grind  the  seeds  up  and  steep 3 them in tea. The physiological effect upon consuming the tea was like a sedative or an opiate.  In mitigation, Applicant testified that he is older and now has a family, as well as a job he enjoys. He recognizes that holding a clearance is important to him. His current circumstances are “incompatible with any drug use.” He said his desire to use marijuana has disappeared. He has found the effects of the drug to be physically taxing, and  “not compatible with [the] responsibilities I have as a parent or as an employee.”  He cited having children as the biggest change in his lifestyle.  Applicant  testified  that  he  no  longer  attends  parties  or  associates  with  people who use marijuana. His last use, in December 2017, was with a friend who now lives in another  part of  the  state.  They  are  no  longer  in  regular  contact.  Applicant’s  wife  does not  use  marijuana,  though  she  did  rarely  use  it  in  the  past.   Applicant  has  never  been  diagnosed  with  a  substance  abuse  disorder.  He  has  never participated in drug treatment or counseling.  Applicant provided a statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance  misuse.  He  acknowledged  that  any  future  such  involvement  would  be grounds  for  revocation  of  his  national  security  eligibility.    He  intends  to  abstain from illegal drugs entirely.  Applicant’s  supervisor  wrote  a  cover  letter  to  convey  his  “absolute  trust”  in Applicant’s  character  and  judgment.  He  has  known  Applicant  for  many  years.  He regards Applicant as trustworthy and reliable, and an excellent performer and a leader at work. Applicant is responsible and credible, and is well qualified to hold a clearance.  