Applicant admitted all the allegations in SOR. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  49-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   She has been employed with the defense contractor since July of 2019.   She  is  married  to  her  second  husband,  and  has seven children and stepchildren.  Her current husband  is  unemployed.  She  also  attributes  their  current  financial  difficulties  to  her additional  periods  of  unemployment  and  underemployment.   Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  A  in  the  amount  of  about $2,183.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  B  in  the  amount  of  about $2,986.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  C  in  the  amount  of  about $1,660.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.d.~1.i. Applicant admits to past-due medical debts to Creditor D in the amount totaling about $1,985.  Despite having been given an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address these debts. These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.j.~1.m.  Applicant  admits  to  past-due  credit  card  debts  to  Creditor  J  in  the amount totaling about $10,621.  Despite having been given an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address these debts.  These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.n.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  N  in  the  amount  of  about $5,406.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 2 1.o.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  O  in  the  amount  of  about $2,609.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.p.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  P  in  the  amount  of  about $471.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional month to do so, Applicant has done nothing to address this debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.q.  Applicant  admits  to  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  Q  in  the  amount  of  about $2,761.    Despite  having  been  given  an additional  month  to  do  so,  Applicant  has  done  nothing  to  address  this  debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 