Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  single  man  with  one  child,  age  seven.  Applicant  was married from 2012 to 2016. The marriage ended in divorce.  He graduated from high school in 2008 and he joined the U.S. Marine Corps two years later, serving through  2014  when  he  was  honorably  discharged    Applicant  has  been working for a federal contractor since August 2018. Applicant incurred ten delinquent debts totaling $44,000, as alleged in the SOR. Approximately $42,000 of this debt constitutes a delinquent personal loan , as set forth  in  subparagraph  1.a,  and  a  delinquent  car  loan    as  alleged  in  SOR subparagraph 1.b. Applicant provided no evidence that he has arranged payment plans to satisfy these debts, and he provided no evidence that he has either satisfied, or has been paying through payment plans, any of the remaining debts. Applicant contends that he first began struggling with his finances after leaving the military in 2014, and that he lost control of his finances when he lost his job in 2018 after his employer accused him of falsifying mileage reimbursement records. Applicant disputes this allegation, but did not provide evidence that he officially disputed it through his state’s administrative agency with jurisdiction to adjudicate such matters. , totaling $28,000 to a car loan company that repossessed his  car in 2018. Since 2017, he has possessed legal guardianship of his ex-girlfriend’s child.  He earned an associate’s degree in 1970 and a bachelor’s degree in 1979.  Since February 2016, he has been working for his current employer, a federal contractor, as a senior safety engineer.   According to a former coworker who worked with Applicant in  the  1990s,  Applicant  was  “always  responsible  in  all  matters  related  to  protecting classified  material  and  would  diligently  follow  all  rules  and  protocols  to  ensure  the protection of classified material.”  Applicant  has  incurred  approximately  $90,000  of  delinquent  debt.  Applicant’s financial  problems  began  when  he  was  laid  off  from  his  job  in  April  2015  as  part  of  a reduction in force.  He was subsequently either unemployed or underemployed for  the  remainder  of  that  year.  Despite  having  $100,000  invested  in  a  stock  portfolio, Applicant  exhausted  these  funds  and  fell  behind  on  his  debt  payments.    His finances became delinquent in part because he chose to neglect them in order to help his ex-girlfriend and her three children financially, providing them with several hundred dollars per month while he was unemployed.  Applicant regained full-time employment in February 2016. He then retained a debt consolidation agency to help him resolve his debts.  As part of the agreement, the 2 debt consolidation agency agreed to contact each creditor, negotiate balance reductions, and develop repayment plans.  Also as part of their agreement, Applicant was to make monthly payments to the debt consolidation agency, and was not to negotiate with any of the creditors himself.  The debt consolidation agency did not fulfill its responsibilities under the agreement, either  not  contacting  all  of  the  creditors,  as  promised,  or  not  making  the  agreed-upon payments.  In 2017, Applicant terminated his agreement with the debt consolidation agency and began attempting to resolve the debts himself. SOR subparagraph 1.a is a credit card account totaling $16,947. In October 2019, Applicant negotiated a balance reduction and a payment plan.  Under the plan, he  was  to  begin  making  $353  monthly  payments,  beginning  in  November  2019, approximately six weeks after the hearing.  SOR subparagraph 1.b totals $14,913. Applicant disputes this debt, contending that he has been unable to contact the creditor, or identify the type of debt. He suspects it was a home equity line that was satisfied when he sold a home in 2017.  Subparagraph 1.c is a credit card, totaling $11,580. At the hearing, Applicant denied responsibility for this debt. However, during the post-hearing record extension deadline, Applicant confirmed his responsibility for the debt, and developed a payment plan. Under the plan, Applicant was to begin making monthly $323 payments, beginning in October 2019.  Subparagraphs 1.d and 1.e are credit card accounts owed to the same creditor, collectively  totaling  approximately  $15,000.  Applicant  negotiated  a  settlement  of subparagraph 1.d for $2,644 and a settlement for subparagraph 1.e for $1,842. According to the two separate agreements, he was to have begun satisfying subparagraph 1.d with $440 payments, and subparagraph 1.e with $307 monthly payments, on November 20, 2019.  Subparagraph 1.f is a credit card totaling approximately $6,639. Applicant arranged to satisfy this debt in $350 monthly increments that were to have begun on November 23, 2019.  Subparagraph  1.g  is  a  delinquent  credit  card  account  totaling  $3,541.  Applicant satisfied this account through a wage garnishment in September 2019.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.h totals $3,174. It was charged off and reported as income to the Internal Revenue Service in tax year 2018.  Subparagraph  1.i  is  a  collection  agent  for  a  department  store.  Applicant’s  debt allegedly totals $2,359. Applicant contests the payoff amount, contending that it is actually $1,829.  The collection agent filed suit against Applicant. Subsequently, he 3 retained an attorney who successfully moved for dismissal of the case for defective service of process.  The creditor in subparagraph 1.j is a collection agent for a department store. The delinquency  totals  $1,298.  Applicant  has  been  satisfying  this  debt  in  monthly  $106 increments since February 2019.  The creditor in subparagraph 1.k is a collection agent for a department store. The debt totals $1,144. Applicant denied this debt, contending that he satisfied it. He provided confirmation of satisfaction in his post-hearing submissions.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.l totals $15,082. Applicant admits owing money to this creditor, but disputes the amount, contending that the debt had been paid down to $5,892. Further, he contends that the collection agency’s “business had been halted on a legal challenge of improper debt manipulation, which included this account.”  He provided no documentary evidence in support of this contention. Subparagraph  1.m,  as  duplicated  in  subparagraph  1.n  is  a  delinquent  cable television bill totaling $321.  Applicant satisfied this debt.  Subparagraph 1.o is a bill for the security system at Applicant’s late mother’s home. Applicant denies this bill, contending that as the trustee of her estate, he was not personally liable for her debts.  Nevertheless, he paid this debt.  SOR subparagraph 1.p alleges that Applicant failed to file his federal income tax returns for tax years 2015 and 2016 on time. He attributes this failure to his continuing struggles  to  get  out  of  debt  after  obtaining  his  current  job  in  February  2016.   Applicant filed both returns in March 2018. He owed no income taxes for either year.  Subparagraphs 1.q and 1.r allege that Applicant failed to file state income tax returns for tax years 2015 and 2016 for three states where he lived during that period. Applicant denied these allegations. He lived in two states , relocating to State 2 after losing his job located in State 1 in August 2015. SOR subparagraph 1.q alleges that he failed to file the 2015 income tax returns for State 1 and State 2. Applicant filed these income tax returns in March 2018.  9, 10) He failed to file them on time, citing the same reason for failing to file his 2015 and 2016 federal income tax returns on time. Ultimately, he was entitled to a $286 refund from State 1 , and owed no money to the revenue authority of State 2.  Applicant lived in State 2 from August 2015 to December 2015.  When he obtained his current job in January 2016, he relocated from State 2 to the state where he currently lives.  Applicant had no responsibility to file an income tax return in State 2 for 2016 because he did not live there that year. 4 Applicant has not yet filed his State 3 income tax return for 2016, as alleged in SOR subparagraph 1.s. With the help of a professional tax return preparer, he completed it in March 2018; however, he did not file it then because of what he alleged to be a discrepancy in the amount owed. Specifically, the return, as completed by the preparer, indicates that Applicant owes State 3 $3,178, whereas, Applicant contends that he is owed a refund.   Applicant  contends  that  dispute  is  being  investigated.  He provided no evidence of any investigation. Applicant maintains a budget.  He earns $113,000 per year.  He receives $352 in monthly pension payments stemming from two previous jobs.  He has $1,650 in monthly disposable income. Applicant has received between 17 and 20 traffic citations in the past 7 years. Many of the tickets stemmed from driving an automobile with expired registration. Specifically, when Applicant relocated from State 2, he took with him two vehicles that he owned.  The registration for one of the vehicles had expired. Struggling to make ends meet, Applicant  only  registered  one  vehicle  after  relocating.  Most  of  the  time,  he  left  the unregistered  vehicle  parked  on  a  private  driveway,  legally  off  the  streets  of  State  3. Occasionally, however, if the registered vehicle was broken down and he did not have the money to repair it, he would drive the unregistered vehicle instead.  Periodically, while driving the unregistered vehicle, he would get stopped and  ticketed. Applicant received the majority of these tickets for driving an unregistered vehicle while commuting to and from work.  He prioritized work attendance, preferring to occasionally commute with an unregistered vehicle, over paying to register his vehicle.  The cost for registering a vehicle in State 3 is approximately $150 per year.  Applicant’s traffic citations include fines for driving with an expired driver’s license. While  living  in  State  2,  Applicant  was  stopped  and  issued  citations for  operating a car without a valid registration and without a valid driver’s license in 2015.  As a result  of  these  citations,  his  vehicle  was  impounded.  Applicant  obtained  a  temporary registration, but did not apply for a new driver’s license. He failed to do so because he could not afford the registration fee.  Later in 2015, Applicant applied for unemployment benefits. When completing the application, he forgot to disclose his monthly pension income.  Upon realizing his mistake, he contacted his caseworker and disclosed the pension income. The caseworker told him that it was nominal, and would have no effect on the amount of unemployment compensation that he would receive.  When Applicant obtained his part-time job later that year, he did not report the income to the unemployment office. Consequently, he was  charged  with  the  crime  of  misrepresentation  of  income  to  obtain  unemployment benefits.      As  part  of  a  settlement,  Applicant  was  ordered  to  pay  $4,000  in overpayment expenses.  Applicant contends that he did not report the money from the part-time job because the income was nominal, similar to the pension income that he was told that he did not need to report. During cross-examination, he testified that the overpayment totaled slightly 5 more than $4,000, an amount “much more than the payments that [he] got from [his ex- employer].”    He  disclosed  his  failure  to  report  the  part-time  income  and  its consequences,  vis  a  vis  his  unemployment  benefits,  in  depth  on  his  2017  security clearance application. 