Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, except SOR 1.i. He is a 30-year-old call center analyst employed by a U.S. defense contractor since December 2016.  He was employed  in  less-well-paid  positions  since  March  2004.  He  has  previously  had  a favorable  background  investigation  in  November  2007,  when  he  worked  for  the Government. This is a periodic reinvestigation of that clearance . 3 The  SOR  alleges,  Government  exhibits  substantiate,  and  Applicant  admits  22 delinquent debts totaling over $35,000. The debts comprise $2,300 in delinquent traffic tickets  ,  four  delinquent  education  loans  totaling  $23,051,  and  six commercial credit accounts. SOR 1.i appears as a current account in Applicant’s April 2014 credit report  with a $335 balance; Applicant’s November 2016 credit report  reports that the account was charged off and transferred to another lender, but with no stated balance.4 Applicant reported five delinquent debts on his April 2014 clearance application ,  including  SOR  1.c,  1.e,  1.j,  and  1.w.  At  the  time,  he  claimed  to  have  been making payments on SOR 1.c, and to have made payment arrangements with the other creditors. He discussed these debts, and was confronted with the remaining SOR debts, during a May 2014 interview with a Government investigator , based on his April 2014 credit report . He repeated his claimed payments on SOR 1.c, and stated his willingness and ability to address the SOR debts. In his Answer, Applicant claimed to be working with a financial planner to address SOR 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, and 1.j. He claimed to be paying on SOR 1.g and 1.h, to have made a payment plan on SOR 1.c and 1.f, and to  be  in  the  process  of  contacting  the  SOR  1.e  creditor.  Except  as  noted  below, Applicant has corroborated none of these claims. Applicant began a new repayment plan on SOR debt 1.c in February 2017, and is current on his payments through December 2017 . SOR debts 1.e and 1.f are to  the  same  original  creditor,  with  1.f  being  held  by  a  collection  agent.  The  accounts have different account numbers, so I cannot determine that the accounts are the same. Applicant claims to be making payments on 1.f, but the credit reports do not appear to confirm that, and Applicant provided no corroboration. Similarly, Applicant claimed to be making payments  on  SOR  debts 1.g,  1.h,  and  1.w,  but provided  no  corroboration.  He claimed    that  he  had  disputed  or  paid  the  traffic tickets  ,  but 3 This is a different contractor than originally sponsored his April 2014 clearance applicantion. At that time, he was employed at a lower wage than currently, and had been briefly unemployed from October to December 2012.  He  was  also  unemployed  from  May  to  November  2016  ,  during  which  time  he  drew unemployment. 4 Applicant claimed that the account was paid , but provided no documentation. Applicant’s December 2017 credit report .shows the account closed in September 2014. 2 provided  no  documentation  aside  from  the  fact  that  the  tickets  do  not  appear  on  his December 2017 credit report .  The education loan at SOR 1.j was satisfied with a final payment in January 2018 .6 5 Federally  guaranteed  student  loans  are  difficult  to  track  through  credit  reports because  of  the  way  the  loans  are  issued,  defaulted,  consolidated,  and  rehabilitated, seldom with the same account numbers attached to the accounts. Applicant’s April 2014 credit report shows six education loans, with complete account numbers, issued by the creditor  at  SOR  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.d.  The  entries  report  only  the  original  loan  amounts because  each  of  the  accounts  was  120-days  past  due,  and  had  been  transferred  to another office. However, those original loan amounts correspond exactly to the six loans that have been consolidated on Applicant’s December 2017 account statement from the rehabilitation collection agent . The statement reflects no past-due amounts, and an  upcoming  $5.00  payment.   These  six  loans  cannot  be  tracked  through  the Applicant’s November 2016 credit report  because that credit report uses only the first four digits of the account number, which is the same for all three accounts, bears no  correlation to the original account numbers, and  are  the  same  original  loan  amounts—only  one  of  which  matches  an  original  loan amount in AE B. Nevertheless, I conclude that six loans listed in AE B cover the SOR amounts alleged in 1.a, 1.b, and 1.d. 7 Applicant attributed his financial problems to his ignoring his financial obligations for many years . He particularly ignored his education loans, but was generally not  paying  attention  to  his  finances  .  He  did  not  begin  to  systematically address  his debts  until after  he  received  the SOR  .  He  claims  that  he  has been working hard on his credit since then . Applicant  documented  no  credit  or  financial  counseling,  and  did  not  submit  a budget,  although  he  claimed  to  have  one  .  He  claimed    to  have  briefly looked  into  credit  counseling  in  February  2017,  but  did  not  really  work  with  them.  He claimed to have worked with a credit repair company  but had no documentation. Throughout his hearing, he claimed to have paid debts, or be paying debts, that he had 5 Several of the SOR debts are still reported delinquent on this credit report. There are also new delinquent debts, which Applicant acknowledges . I have not considered these debts on the merits of the case, but they are relevant to show Applicant’s state of mind. 6 The account number in AE I matches that on GE 3. Given the amount of the debt as of November 2016, I infer that Applicant was making payments on this account before the SOR was issued. 7 When loans are placed in rehabilitation, the lender sets an arbitrarily-low monthly payment to ensure that the loans  can  be  successfully  rehabilitated  before  the  account  is  transferred  to  the  collection  agent—with  a substantially higher monthly payment. In this case, when he first contacted the creditor in February 2017, the account was transferred to a rehabilitation collection agent, where Applicant made $5 monthly payments from approximately  February  to  November  2017  .  The  account  was  then  sent  to  a  second rehabilitation collection agent , where the required $5 payment for December is the first of three $5 payments  required  before  the  loans  are  sent  to  the  permanent  servicer,  where  the  monthly  payment  is expected to be $206 . 3 receipts for, but he never submitted them. Applicant’s fiancee is somewhat aware of the SOR,  and  says  Applicant  is  working  on  his  financial  problems.  They  share  expenses . Applicant claims $1,000 monthly positive case flow . He provided no work or character references, or evidence of community involvement. 