In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f.  He denied the other SOR allegations in full or in part. He also provided mitigating information.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant  is  42  years  old,  and  he  is  employed  as  a  senior  systems  security specialist.  He protects sensitive healthcare information in his current position.  One of his primary goals is to mitigate risk in information security.  He has an associate’s degree in computer science.  In 2015, he received a bachelor’s degree in systems security.  He is in the process of obtaining his certification as an  information  systems  manager.    He  has a  strong  resume  in  communications security and information technology.  In 1998, Applicant married, and he and his spouse have three children ages 8, 16, and 19.  Applicant’s spouse holds a security clearance, and she is employed as a financial manager.  Applicant served in the Army from 2004 to July 2012.  He was a senior communications  security  repair  specialist.    In  2010,  he  held  a  top  secret clearance with access to sensitive compartmented information .  He said he never had a security violation.  He denied that his alcohol consumption affected his work performance.  Alcohol Consumption The SOR alleges the following conduct of security significance. SOR  ¶ 1.a  alleges  in August  2004,  Applicant  was  arrested for and  convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol . Applicant drove after consuming alcohol and hit a guard rail.  He was in Army advanced individual training or AIT when he was 1 Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific information is available in the cited exhibits. 2 arrested for  DUI.    He  said  he  did  not  recall  his  breathalyzer  result.    He pleaded guilty to DUI.  The court imposed 48 hours in jail, 80 hours of community service, a fine, and driver’s license suspension.  Applicant’s commander imposed nonjudicial punishment  under Article 15, Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  ,  for  the  August  2004  DUI.  His  punishment included  45  days  of  extra  duty,  and  his  commander  required  him  to  attend  the  Army Substance Abuse Program .  After completion of AIT, the Army assigned Applicant to a unit in Germany.  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges in November 2006, Applicant was charged with drunk on duty and wrongful distribution of hallucinogens. His NJP included a reduction in rank. As to the drunk on duty offense, Applicant said a sergeant relieved him from duty on New Year’s Eve.  He and some other soldiers left the barracks and went to a club, where he consumed alcohol.  He returned to the barracks and went to sleep.  The first sergeant, and the sergeant who released him from duty, came to Applicant’s barracks room. The first sergeant asked Applicant why he was not on duty, and Applicant did not respond  to  his  question  because  he  believed  he  would  not  be  believed  if  he  said  the sergeant  with  the  first  sergeant  released  him  from  duty.    Applicant’s  unit referred him to the ASAP.  He successfully completed ASAP.   Applicant  denied  that he  was  under  the  influence  of alcohol  on  duty,  and  he claimed  that  he  was  not  under  the  influence  of  alcohol.    He  believed  he  was unfairly accused of being drunk on duty.  The  allegation  of  wrongful  distribution  of  hallucinogens  was  made  against Applicant  several  months  after  the  drunk  on  duty  accusation  was  made.    An airman, who tested positive in a urinalysis test for use of Ecstasy, said Applicant provided an Ecstasy pill to him.  Applicant consented to the search of his room in the barracks, and the searcher found three Ecstasy pills in the drawer under Applicant’s bed.    Applicant  said  others  had  access  to  his  room and must  have placed  the  Ecstasy  pills  into  his  drawer.  Applicant  said  he  provided  statements  to  the Army  Criminal  Investigation  Command  from  witnesses  who  said  they  did  not  see Applicant commit drug offenses.  Applicant’s commander imposed NJP including a reduction in grade, forfeiture of half a month’s pay for two months, and extra duty.  Applicant said the colonel who imposed the NJP told him that he believed  Applicant;  however,  he  had  to  punish  Applicant  to  show  illegal  drugs  are  not tolerated “whether [he] did it or not.”  Applicant accused the colonel of punishing  him  even  though  Applicant  was  innocent.    Applicant  denied  his involvement with illegal drugs.  Applicant did not provide a statement from anyone besides  himself  corroborating  his  assertion  that  the  colonel  said  he  was  innocent,  but punished  him  anyway.  He  did  not  provide  proof  to  support  his  claim  that  the  colonel violated  his  rights  by  knowingly  and  improperly  punishing  him  for  a  crime  he  did  not commit. SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  in  August  2008,  Applicant  voluntarily  referred  himself  for treatment in ASAP. Applicant did not recall his self-referral for treatment in ASAP.  Applicant was diagnosed in March 2009, as alcohol dependent.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in June 2009, Applicant was charged with DUI, simple assault, and  disorderly  conduct.  Applicant  got  into  an  altercation  after  consuming  alcohol.  He pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct, and the DUI and assault charges were dismissed. In 2009, Applicant was with a friend at a bar.  Applicant drank four or five strong drinks, and Applicant admitted he was intoxicated.  Applicant was the only Black person in the bar, and a man came up to Applicant, asked him for a cigarette, and called him a n _ _ _ _ r.  More words were exchanged, and Applicant left the bar and went to the parking lot.  Applicant described his own conduct in the bar as reasonable and peaceful. In the parking lot outside the bar, the man insulted Applicant again and tried to punch Applicant.  Applicant hit the man in the face, and the man hit his head on the ground.  Someone tackled Applicant and knocked Applicant down. Others kicked Applicant and his friend while they were down.  Applicant said, “I heard the whole, entire bar . . . [say] ‘[w]e’re going to hang us a n _ _ _ _ r.’”  Applicant said he believed they were going to get a rope and drag him down the street by the neck.  Applicant and his friend left in his friend’s vehicle.  A short time later, the police arrested Applicant and his friend.  Applicant did not recall whether a blood alcohol test  was administered, and Applicant denied that he was driving.  The police told Applicant that the person Applicant punched had “a pretty  bad  gash  on  his  head.”    According  to  the  notice  of  preliminary  hearing, Applicant was charged with simple assault, disorderly conduct, DUI/high rate of alcohol .10-.16, and DUI/Gen IMP/INCAP of driving safely.   Applicant’s friend was charged with  DUI,  simple  assault,  and  disorderly  conduct.    Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to disorderly conduct, and the other charges were withdrawn.  He received court fees totaling $229.  Applicant’s record was subsequently expunged.  On March 2, 2009, an Army social worker and ASAP Clinical Director evaluated Applicant’s alcohol consumption.  She indicated he met three of seven criteria for alcohol dependence, and his beer consumption during ASAP established a fourth criteria. 2 The Clinical Director indicated that his diagnosis of alcohol dependence “became 2 In 2000, the  American Psychiatric  Association  issued the  Diagnostic and Statistical  Manual  of Mental Disorders .  This manual indicates that if three of the following seven criteria are met in the previous year, a diagnosis of alcohol dependence is warranted. The seven criteria are as follows: Had to drink much more than you once did to get the effect you want? Or found that your usual number of drinks had much less effect than before? Found that when the effects of alcohol were wearing off, you had withdrawal symptoms, such as trouble sleeping, shakiness, restlessness, nausea, sweating, a racing heart, or a seizure? Or sensed things that were not there? Had times when you ended up drinking more, or longer, than you intended? More than once wanted to cut down or stop drinking, or tried to, but couldn’t? 4 a point of contention for [Applicant] and he spent a number of weeks fixated on this and his adamant disagreement with same.”  Applicant claimed the ASAP Clinical Director said that “Anyone that has two sittings a year drinking alcohol, and in those two sittings  drink[s]  more  than  two  drinks,  is  considered  an  alcoholic.”   Applicant denied that he was an “alcoholic”; however, he said he did “binge drink.”  He said the statement in the Clinical Director’s report that he drank half a beer while in ASAP was false, but that she was not lying.  He did not recall admitting  to  her  that  he  drank  beer  while  in  ASAP.    Applicant  said  he  was unaware of the diagnosis of alcohol dependency.  He characterized the Clinical Director  as  “mean,”  “very  attacking,”  “very  abusive,”  and  “very  manipulating.”  He said she told him, “I’m going to get you. I’m going to get you.”  He denied that anyone told him not to drink alcohol.  SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  in  September  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUI.  After attending a civilian substance abuse program, the charge in state court was dismissed. In  May  2012,  Applicant’s  command  charged  him  with  operating  a  vehicle  while  drunk under Article 111, UCMJ. He was discharged from the service in lieu of courts-martial, and he received a general discharge under honorable conditions. In September 2011, Applicant and his spouse were both drinking alcohol before they started to drive home.  Applicant was asked how much he had to drink, and he said he had a “drink or two” or “at least two drinks that evening.”  Applicant said he did not feel intoxicated.  Applicant fell asleep while driving to their home and hit a tree.  Applicant received serious burns to his legs and had multiple broken bones.  He was in a coma for six days and in the hospital for about four months.  His spouse attributed the accident to Applicant’s severe sleep apnea and being tired.  Applicant’s records indicate he had a BAT; however, Applicant said he did not remember the result.  A letter of reprimand from a major general indicates that a police officer at the scene of the accident “noted a strong odor of alcohol coming from [Applicant’s] breath and person,” and he had a BAT result of a .14 blood alcohol content .  The state dismissed the DUI charge.  The  Army  preferred  a  charge  of  drunk  driving  against  Applicant.   Applicant said his lawyer convinced him that he could not get a fair trial in the military because “[t]he Army has deep pockets,” “they are known to get on the witness stand and lie,”  and  “[t]here  is  no  way  you  could  win  this.”    He  was  convinced  he  was Spent a lot of time drinking? Or being sick or getting over other aftereffects? Given up or cut back on activities that were important or interesting to you, or gave you pleasure, in order to drink? Continued to drink even though it was making you feel depressed or anxious or adding to another health problem? Or after having had a memory blackout? See National Institute of Health Fact Sheet discussing DSM-IV and DSM-V.  5 getting “railroaded.”  At his security clearance hearing, Applicant admitted he was guilty of the DUI offense.  Applicant was a sergeant  before being reduced to private  through an administrative reduction related to being charged with operating a vehicle while drunk and receipt  of  a  discharge  under  Chapter  10  of  Army  Regulation  635-200.    He received a general discharge under honorable conditions. 3 SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  from  about  February  2012  to  July  2012,  Applicant  received treatment  at  an  ASAP.  He  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  dependence.  Applicant  self- referred himself to ASAP.  He said he decided not to get drunk anymore.  Applicant said he successfully completed ASAP.  SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  Applicant  continues  to  consume  alcohol  notwithstanding  his diagnosis  of  alcohol  dependence.  Applicant  said  he  ended  his  alcohol  consumption  in June 2017.  He also said he stopped drinking alcohol after the accident in 2011 or his alcohol consumption was “close to none” until his birthday in June 2017.  He said he did not drink alcohol and drive after the accident in 2011.  He claimed he did not drink alcohol while he was in ASAP.  He denied that he was alcohol dependent.  There is no evidence that Applicant currently consumes alcohol, and SOR ¶ 1.g is not substantiated. Applicant  denied  receipt  of  the  January  14,  2010  memorandum  from  the  Army Central Personnel Security Clearance Facility  granting his access to sensitive compartmented information and top secret information, and warning him not to have any future  incidents  involving  alcohol,  criminal  conduct,  or  other  unfavorable  information because it may result in suspension of his security clearance.  There is no receipt signed by Applicant in the file showing Applicant received the January 14, 2010 Army CPSCF memorandum.  Applicant’s spouse said the last time she observed him consuming alcohol was on his birthday in June 2017.  She said on that occasion, he drank one half of a glass of wine.  Applicant said he had “two glasses of wine on [his] birthday.”  After the accident in 2011, he seldom consumed alcohol and not to intoxication.  His alcohol-related accident in 2011 was a shock to him, and he changed.  He denied that he drank to intoxication after the accident in 2011.  He denied drinking alcohol after his birthday in June 2017.  His spouse maintains wine in her house.  In 2015, Applicant and his spouse were baptized, and his church is available to 3  Applicant  denied  that  he  admitted  the  offense  as  part  of  the  discharge  process  or  he  did  not remember admitting an offense carrying a bad-conduct discharge.  Under Army Regulation   635-200,  Active  Duty  Enlisted  Administrative  Separations,  Chapter  10,  paragraph  10-2e,  “The Soldier’s written request will also include an acknowledgment that he/she understands the elements of the offense  charged and is guilty of the charge or of a lesser included offense therein contained which fig  10–1,  para  2.),” also  authorizes https://armypubs.army.mil/epubs/DR pubs/DR a/pdf/web/AR635-200 Web FINAL 18JAN2017 .pdf. The requirement for this admission of guilt to a serious offense has been part of AR 635-200, Chapter 10 for more  than  30  years.  When  a  Chapter  10  discharge  is  approved,  the  soldier  being  discharged  is administratively reduced to private E-1. imposition  of  a  punitive  discharge.  His spouse indicates Applicant has “great integrity,” and  she  recommends  approval  of  his  security  clearance.    He  said  he  “took responsibility” for his conduct.  On  September  9,  2016,  an  Officer  Personnel  Management    investigator interviewed Applicant about his history of alcohol consumption.  The summary of the OPM interview states: In 2009 or 2010; Subject could not be more specific, Subject found [G]od and dedicated himself to his family and Subject’s drinking decreased to its current level of three to four mixed drinks over a five to six hour time period once  or  twice  per  year  during  the  holidays.  .  .  .  Subject  has  no  intent  on changing his drinking habits in the future.  Applicant said he had changed after the accident in 2011.  “[He] had an out-of-body experience where [he] met the Creator.”  The Creator held Applicant by the neck over a fire and said, “Is this what you want?”  He responded that he wanted a second chance, and he woke up in the hospital.  Applicant believed he healed from his injuries “at a supernatural rate.”  He considers himself to be honest, responsible, reliable, and trustworthy.  In sum, Applicant successfully completed ASAP in April 2005, January 2009, and February 2012.  He has never had a positive urinalysis for use of illegal drugs.  In 2012, he was diagnosed with alcohol-use disorder.  In February 2012, he made a commitment to abstain from alcohol use.  At his hearing, he promised to abstain from alcohol consumption in the future. Character Evidence Before Applicant deployed to Iraq with a task force, his colonel said “we were going to lose 40 – almost half, 44 percent, which we did lose half.”  Applicant said he was a gunner for “over 279 missions.”  His “mind state was that I’m going to die, but if I’m going to die, I’m going to die honorably, and just, you know for my brothers and sisters that wear the flag.”  While in Iraq, Applicant said he received multiple Combat Action Badges .4 He explained why he only had one CAB in his records as follows: 4 I decline to credit Applicant with receipt of more than one Combat Action Badge. The Army Human Relations Command website states: Subsequent award of the  CAB  is not authorized during the same qualifying period. The qualifying period is defined as the contingency/conflict for which the Secretary of the Army authorized combat badges is awarded. Currently, the only qualifying period for award of the  CAB  is  the  GWOT.  OEF,  OIF,  and  OND  are  operations  within  the  GWOT contingency/conflict. Therefore, no matter how many times a Soldier rotates to the theater, only one award of each combat badge is authorized. . 7 And I remember throwing them down. I was, like, I’m tired of these combat action  badges.  And  I  remember  throwing  them  down  and  walking  away because I was upset about . . . all the combat, the killing. And I said, I’m tired of you giving me awards for killing all these people. And I just walked away, and I said, you know. Give me money for the combat action badges, because I saw no value to it.  He indicated records were burned in the trunk of his car during the accident in 2011.  He did not provide corroborative evidence that he was a gunner for “over 279 missions,”  that  he  was  assigned  to  a  unit  that  sustained  a  high  percentage  of  combat casualties, or that he was awarded multiple CABs. Applicant said that after he came back from Iraq, he described symptoms of having post-traumatic stress disorder , and a doctor “threw some pills at [him]” and told him he would be fine in three months.  Applicant threw the pills in the trash.  The Department of Veterans Affairs  decided that he had a disability rating of 90 percent, which included 30 percent for PTSD.  Applicant’s  DD  Form  214  indicates  he  has  the  following  medals,  badges,  and ribbons:  Army  Commendation  Medal  ;  Army  Achievement  Medal    ; Army Superior Unit Award ; Army Good Conduct Medal ; National Defense Service Medal ; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal ; Iraq Campaign Medal with Campaign Star ; Noncommissioned Officer Professional Development  Ribbon    ;  Army  Service  Ribbon  ;  Overseas Service  Ribbon    ;  Combat  Action  Badge  ;  and  Certificate  of Achievement .  He completed multiple military training courses.   He  served  in  Iraq  from  August  2006  to  October  2007.    He  also  served  an overseas tour in Germany. In  2017,  Applicant  received  an  excellent  performance  evaluation  from  his employer.  He also received some excellent evaluation reports when he was in the Army.  Applicant was the distinguished honor graduate of a course.  He provided award certificates and orders for several medals and one CAB as listed on his DD Form 214.  Letters of recommendation from his spouse, supervisors, friends, and colleagues lauded Applicant’s intelligence, diligence, positive attitude, enthusiasm, honesty, friendliness, athleticism when he was younger, and professionalism.  