In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated he was working to resolve the $10,928 automobile loan  and $1,469 telephone service debt . He denied the remaining six delinquent accounts. He admitted he had relatives who were citizens and 1 The DoD CAF took the action under Executive Order 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry , as amended; DoD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program , as amended ; and the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information  effective within the DoD on September 1, 2006, for all adjudications for national security eligibility or eligibility to hold a sensitive position. 2 Application of the AGs that were in effect as of the issuance of the SOR would not change my decision in this case. The new AGs are available at http://ogc.osd.mil/doha/5220-6 R20170608.pdf. 2 residents of Cameroon. After a thorough review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  project  specialist  who  has  worked  for  a  defense contractor since September 2014.  He seeks to obtain a security clearance.  He is married and has two children.  He has never served in the U.S. military.  In February 2018, he received an applause award and monetary award for his work contributions.  In December 2003, he received a Master’s of Business Administration  from an American university.  Applicant was born in and was a citizen of Cameroon. In February 2000, Applicant visited the United States when he came to the United States to further his education and to avoid violence and turmoil in Cameroon.  At that time, Cameroon was politically unstable  and  had  a  high  murder  rate.    He  feared  for  his  life  in  Cameroon  and applied for political asylum in the United States.  In 1997, he had been arrested for  protesting  against  the  Cameroon  government.    His  brother  had  also  been arrested.  One of his cousins has been jailed indefinitely and Applicant has had friends  killed  by  the  police.    The  government  had  been  autonomous  and  a dictatorship.    Cameroon  has  improved  politically  to  the  point  Applicant  visited Cameroon for three weeks in 2013. That was his first visit since leaving the country in 2000.  Cameroon does not accept dual citizenship.  Applicant’s brother and his sister are Cameroon nationals. His other brother is a naturalized U.S. citizen and lives with him.  A couple of months after Applicant arrived in the United States, his brother arrived and two years later, his other brother and sister arrived.  His siblings were granted political asylum.  One brother  lives  in  Canada  and  is  a  Canadian  permanent  resident  pending  Canadian citizenship.  His sister, a cosmetologist, lives in Arkansas and is a U.S. registered alien pending her citizenship.  She cannot apply for citizenship until she has been a registered alien for five years.  In 2012 and 2013, he traveled to Canada to visit his brother and in 2013, he visited his family in Cameroon, as previously stated. In June 2012, Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen.  He  feels  loyalty  to  the  United  States  and  has  no  divided  loyalty.    His  wife  is  a Cameroon national and has U.S. alien registration.  His wife was already living  in  the  United  States  when  they  met  in  2011.  She  had  been  previously  jailed  in Cameroon for political protesting and was granted political asylum in the United States.  They met in March 2011 and married in November 2011.   He anticipates his wife will become a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2020.  She is a business analyst working for an insurance company.  His two children were both born in the United States.  His father-in-law is a Cameroon national, retired from the Cameroon railway services, and is now a fireman.  Applicant has contact with his father-in-law by telephone twice a month.  His wife has two siblings living in Cameroon and three living in the United States.  The record is silent as to Applicant’s contact with these individuals. 3 Applicant’s  mother  and father are  both  Cameroon  nationals and  are retired  civil servants. In her mid-30 to mid-40s, his mother worked ten years as a meteorologist for the Cameroon government.  After retiring, she worked as a finance manager for a private construction and security company and is now retired.  He has daily contact with her via email, text, or telephone calls when she is in Cameroon.  She is currently visiting him in the United States. For nine or ten years, Applicant’s father, a Cameroon national, was one of thirteen justices  on  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  Republic  of  Cameroon  and,  at  one  time,  was president of the high court. .  When he turned 65 years old, he retired.3  While his father served on the Supreme Court, it was the highest  court4  in  the  country.  His  father  served  as  a  judge  in  Cameroon  in  various positions  for  40  years.    Applicant  has  contact  with  his  father  twice  a  week  via email,  text,  or  telephone  calls.    His  parents  receive  pensions  from  the Cameroon government.  Applicant’s parents have decided not to move to the United States because they would not be able to cope with the life style in the United States and because his father’s arthritis would make winters in the United States unbearable for him.  Applicant would consider the area they live in Cameroon to be “very dangerous.”  His mother visits him in the United States every two years and is currently visiting him, as previously stated.  In March 2017, he applied for U.S. alien registration for his mother.  With alien registration, an individual must live in the United States  six  months  out  of  the  year,  which  is  another  reason  he  did  not  apply  for  alien registration for his father.  The SOR alleges Applicant has four charged-off accounts totaling $23,175, three collection accounts totaling $14,847, and he was $16,599 past due on another account. The delinquent obligations totaled $54,621. He alleges that after completing his MBA in 2003  and  after  he  purchased  his  home,  he  started  receiving  letters  stating  he  had purchased various goods, which he had not purchased.  When he located to a job on the other coast, the company reviewed his credit and he discovered many flags on his credit report.  He disputed some of the accounts and made payments on others.  In 2008 or 2009, Applicant asserts he was the victim of identity theft.  He now employs two different credit monitoring services, neither of which are credit counseling services.  The services are to notify him of any irregular activity, dispute fraudulent activity, and alert him if his credit is pulled.  He has had the service for two years.  In 2011, Applicant’s wife became ill and stopped working. She has now returned to working. The home they own is located in another state and is rented to tenants.  As of June 2015, Applicant owed approximately $218,000 on investment real estate. 3 Exhibit A, written in French and not translated, states Applicant’s father was due to retire because he was 65 years old.  4 Two or three  years ago,  Cameroon established a constitutional court,  which supersedes the Supreme Court.  4   At  the  hearing,  he  asserted  he  owed  $209,000  on  the  property  that  has  a  fair market value of $250,000. He has put down a deposit on a new home being built where they currently live.  The new home costs $460,000.  He intends to keep his rental home after buying his new home.  The automobile debt listed in listed in SOR 1.a  appears on Applicant’s January 2015 credit report.  A previous automobile loan with the same lender was listed as “Pays as Agreed” with a high credit amount of $26,276 and a current balance of $21,784. The auto loan obtained in June 2011 required monthly payments of $598 for 72 months.  He had purchased a used BMW, which developed problems. He traded it in, and in September 2012, and purchased an Acura using the same creditor for the new auto loan.  In April 2016, Applicant could no longer afford the monthly car payments.  Even though he had not missed any payments on the loan, he called the bank and had his  car  voluntarily  repossessed.    At  the  time  of  the  repossession,  Applicant asserted he owed $18,000 on the loan and the vehicle was sold for $11,000 following the repossession.  In his July 2016 enhanced subject interview, he said he was in the process of setting up a repayment plan with the bank. In his July 2017 SOR response, he stated he was working on a resolution of this debt. His November 2016 credit report lists $5,626 past due on a $10,928 balance .  At the hearing, he said he was working with the creditor to reach a settlement agreement on the debt.  He was unsure  when  a  settlement  agreement  would  be  reached.    His  May  2018  credit report reflects $12,590 charged off as a bad debt.  Applicant asserted he was unable to continue with payment on the loan because his wife had a large amount of medical bills.  The nature of his wife’s illness or the cost of treatment are not reflected in the record.  He said he was able to satisfy all his other financial obligations. During a June 2015 enhanced subject interview, Applicant stated that in 2002, a student loan  was opened in his name and his brother’s name by an unknown person  On his January 2015 Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing  he stated the “loan was originated by my Brother,” and Applicant was disputing the debt.  He has disputed the loan since he found out about the loan in 2008 or 2009.  In his April 2017 SOR Response, he denied the debt, but said he was working to resolve it. His January 2015 credit report states the account was opened in  January  2002  with  a  high  credit  level  of  $6,325  and  a  balance  of  $7,374.  The  loan required monthly payments of $60 for 196 months.  In March 2012, a debt of $5,516 was charged off.  Applicant asserts this was his brother’s student loan and does not know how or why it is attached to his credit report.  This loan belongs to his brother living in Canada.  Applicant never co-signed on any student loans.  Applicant admits he has a student loan with the same company to pay for his MBA education. That loan is current.  His January 2015 credit report states the larger student loan status is “Pays as Agreed,” and it had a $33,307 balance. That loan required $196  monthly  payments  for  300  months.    His  November  2016  credit  report 5 indicates the balance on the larger student loans is $30,510.  As of December 31, 2017, the balance on the student loans was $28,645.  His February 2018 credit report lists the balance as $28,658 with no past-due amounts.  His May 2018 credit report lists it as “current” with a balance of $28,114.  In Applicant’s January 2015 e-QIP he stated he owed $4,000 on a bank credit card .    He  stated,  “I  had  a  business  in  2008  and  as  a  result  the business accumulated some debt which I was the garantor [sic] and thus had to be liable.”  In his June 2015 interview he provided a different explanation of the charged-off credit card debt. In the interview, he said the credit card account was opened in January 2009 by an unknown individual as a result of identity theft.  He told the investigator that  he  did  not  know  why  it  stated  that  he  had  a  business  in  2008,  and  as  a  result  of business  debt accumulated,  he  was  liable.    He  stated  he  did  not  know  why  the case papers stated this. He asserted it was a fraudulent account, but asserted he paid it in March 2011 “just because he wanted it off of his credit report.”  Applicant’s January 2015 credit report lists two bank credit card accounts with the creditor listed in SOR 1.g , which is the debt referred to in the previous paragraph.  He asserts one account is his, and he paid it, and the other account is a fraudulent account.  He asserted he could provide information on the account he paid.  No documents showing the debt had been paid were received. Both accounts were at times delinquent. One account opened in May 2006 had a high balance of $4,053 when it was closed by the grantor.  The debt went to collection. The second account with the same creditor was opened in August 2007 and $4,557 was charged off in September 2014.  He asserted he contacted the creditor, and they removed it from his credit account.  He provided no documentation supporting his assertion. Applicant listed a federal credit union account debt of $7,300 on his e-QIP stating he was disputing it and was working  with a company to resolve the issue.  The debt    was  an  automobile  loan  opened  in  September  2007  that required $353 monthly payments for 72 months.  The high credit on the loan was $17,399. The delinquent obligation went to collection.  Applicant’s  January  2015  credit  report  lists  two  obligations  to  this  federal  credit union, one in the amount of $13,263, listed as a collection account, and the other a $7,300 account  listed  as  “Pays  as  Agreed.  The  larger  account  was  listed  as  “closed”  and  the smaller listed as “Account Closed by Grantor” and charged off.  The credit report lists both debts as “Dispute Resolved – Consumer Disagrees.”  He assets this was a fraudulent account, that he worked with the credit union, and they removed it from his credit report.  He provided no documentation supporting his assertion. The  credit  card debt  in  SOR  1.h    appears  on Applicant’s January  2015 credit report listing that $2,174 had been charged off in December 2010. He asserts he reached a settlement with the creditor in 2011 and paid the debt.  He provided no documentation supporting payment of the debt. He asserted he cannot “get a hold of the bank to validate my account status. But this account was paid in full.”  6 Applicant’s November 2016 credit report lists a $1,469 telephone service collection account    and  a  $115  cable  television  collection  debt  .    He asserted the telephone account debt was a fraudulent account. He has had numerous communications with the telephone company and asserts the telephone company agreed this was not his debt.  His May 2018 credit report lists the account as closed and seriously  past  due  date  and  assigned  to  a  collection  agency.    The  debt  also appears on his May 2018 credit report as closed and as a collection account.  As of August 2018, he was still working with the creditor to have the debt removed from his credit report.  The debt is not reported by one credit reporting agency.  The cable debt arose when he moved. The account was paid and shows a zero balance on his credit report.  On Applicant’s January 2015 e-QIP he listed $16,000 owed to the creditor listed in SOR 1.d , but indicated it was caused by identity theft. On the e-QIP, he stated he was working directly with all creditors and collection agencies listed on his credit profile to fix any pending issues. He said he was doing so to make sure it does not happen again and also to make sure his credit profile is correct.  The past-due account listed in SOR 1.d  appears on Applicant’s January 2015 credit report listing the account as being opened in November 2011. It was listed as being 120 days or greater past due and in collection.  The credit report also lists the account as “Account in Dispute.” In his June 2015 subject interview, he asserted this debt was a fraudulent account opened by an unknown person.  At the hearing, he said, “I have no idea what this one – This one, too, was also a long time, and I just kept calling  them  and  denying  [responsibility  and  stating]  that  it  wasn’t5  my  debt,  and eventually,  it  was  removed  from  my  account.”    He  provided  no  documentation supporting this assertion. Applicant  makes  regular  contributions  to  his  401  retirement  plan  and  has  a balance of approximately $53,000 in the plan.  His wife has approximately $11,000 in her retirement plan.  He has approximately $31,000 in savings.  Over the past four years he has spent approximately $30,000 working with his brother  to  develop  a  computer  application.    His  May  2018  credit  report  lists  a collection account with a zero balance.  Prior  to  closing  arguments,  Applicant  was  again  informed  of  the  importance  of to  support  his  assertions  of  payment,  settlement,  or providing  documents acknowledgement by the creditors that the delinquent obligations are not his.  Republic of Cameroon French  Cameroon  became  independent  in  1960  as  the  Republic  of  Cameroon. The following year the southern portion of neighboring British Cameroon voted to merge with  the  new  country  to  form  the  Federal  Republic  of  Cameroon.  The  country  has generally enjoyed stability, which has enabled the development of agriculture, roads, and 5 Applicant probably meant to say he kept calling them and denying it “was” his debt. 7 railways, as well as a petroleum industry. Political power remains firmly in the hands of the President. The  United  States  established  diplomatic  relations  with  Cameroon  in  1960, following  the  independence  of  the  French-administered  part  of  the  country.  Cameroon has  had  just  two  presidents  since  independence.  U.S.  relations  with  Cameroon  are positive,  although from  time  to  time  they  have  been  affected  by  concerns over  human rights abuses and the pace of political and economic liberalization. Cameroon plays a key role in regional stability and remains a strong regional partner with the United States in countering terrorism in the Lake Chad Region. Cameroon is currently the United States’ 124th largest goods trading partner. International  migration  from  Cameroon  has  been  driven  by  unemployment , poverty, the search for educational opportunities, and corruption. The United States and Europe are preferred destinations. Cameroon has a large youth population, with more than 60% of the populace under the age of 25. The U.S. State Department warns U.S. citizens to avoid all travel to the North and Far North Regions and parts of the East and Adamawa Regions of Cameroon because of terrorist threats, the risk of violent crime, and civil unrest.   Violent  crime,  such  as  armed  robbery  and  carjacking,  is common.  Local  police  lack  the  resources  to  respond  effectively  to  serious  criminal incidents. In the North and Far North Regions, as well as parts of East and Adamawa Regions,  terrorists  may  attack  with  no  warning,  targeting  local  facilities,  and  places frequented  by  Westerners.  Kidnapping  by  terrorists  and/or  kidnapping  for  ransom  are serious concerns in Cameroon. In Northwest and Southwest Regions, an Anglophone separatist movement has led to increased levels of violence. Armed clashes with the government and other acts of violence  have  occurred.  The  Boko  Haram  terrorist  group  has  actively  targeted  foreign residents, tourists, and government leaders in the North and Far North Region. The U.S. Embassy’s ability to provide consular services in remote and rural areas of Cameroon is extremely  limited  and  the  U.S.  Government  has  limited  ability  to  provide  emergency services to U.S. citizens. 