Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 58-year-old employee of a defense contractor.   He has been employed  with the defense contractor “since July of 2017.”  He is married to  a  Philippine  national;  and  has  three  children,  the  two  eldest  living  with  his  former spouse in the United States.   His  youngest  child  resides  in  the  Philippines  with  the  child  mother,  Applicant’s current wife. Applicant resides in the United States. Guideline F – Financial Considerations Applicant  attributes  his  admitted to  brief  periods  of unemployment, the one “started May 31, 2017, to July 17, 2017.”  financial  difficulties 1.a. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt in the amount of about $7,291, as the result of a breach of contract with a former employer.   Through  a  credit  counseling  service,  Applicant  is  making  monthly payments of $134 towards this admitted debt, as evidenced by documentation from that counseling service.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.b.  and  1.f.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  two  past-due  debts  with  the Department of Education totaling about $3,672.  In  August and  September of 2017, Applicant  was  trying  to  make monthly  payments  of only  $5  towards  this  admitted  debt.   This documentation also shows that Applicant was “past due” $5 on his payments.   Despite  having  a  month  to  do  so,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this regard.  These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.c.  Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt in the amount of about $1,747 to  Creditor  C.    Through  a  credit  counseling service,  Applicant  is  making  monthly  payments  of  $88  towards  this  admitted  debt,  as evidenced by documentation from that counseling service.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits that he had a past-due debt with Creditor D in the amount of about $696, but avers that this “phone bill account . . . was paid off.”   Despite  having  a  month  to  do  so,  Applicant  has  submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.e. Applicant admits that he had past-due child support payments totaling about $7,747. In August of 2017, this was being paid through wage garnishment.  Despite having  a  month  to  do  so,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  This allegation is found against Applicant. Not alleged; but admitted to by Applicant at his hearing, he is a month past due on a car payment, and  owes about $800 in state back taxes.  Guideline B – Foreign Influence 2.a,  2.b.,  and  2.d.  Applicant’s  current  spouse  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  the Philippines. She hopes to immigrate to the United States. Their four-year-old American son resides with Applicant’s spouse. Applicant provides financial support of about $600 every few months to his spouse. She lives with her parents.  2.c. Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law are citizens and residents of the Philippines.  They know little about Applicant’s employment, only that he is “a mechanic . . . [who does] work for the Military.”  2.e. In 2012, over five years ago, Applicant gave a one-time gift of about $500 to a  female  friend  in  the  Philippines.    Their relationship was terminated years ago.  Administrative Notice I take Administrative Notice of the following facts regarding the Philippines: It is a multiparty,  constitutional  republic  with  a  bicameral  legislature.  However,  dynastic political families continue to monopolize elective offices. The U.S. Department of State advises  all  U.S.  citizens  traveling  to  the  Philippines  to  exercise  caution  due  to  crime, terrorism, and civil unrest.  