Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR,  with  explanations.  After  a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.    He  has  been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor  “since  November  2016.”   Previously  divorced  “in  2014,”  he  is  now married to a Philippine national, and has two children from his previous marriage.  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  and  1.d.  Applicant’s  wife  is  a  citizen  of  the  Philippines,  but  resides  with Applicant  in  Korea.    He  gives  his  wife  about  $250  each  month  which  she  deposits  in  a  Philippine bank account.  1.b.,  and  1.c.  Applicant father-in-law  “passed  away” in  2017, and  his mother-in- law “is a homemaker.” He currently provides no financial support for his mother-in-law, who plans to join her sister in the United States.   Applicant’s seven brothers-in-law and two sisters-in-law “live in the mountains.”  The men work “a little construction, [and] farm work,” while the women “wash clothes for money.”  “They [all] think . . . [Applicant fixes] electronics.”  2 1.e. Applicant only owns property in the Philippines, worth about $18,000, where he plans to “retire” in about 15~20 years.  He does not own any property in the United States.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations Applicant  attributes  his  current  financial  difficulties  to  the  hospitalization  of  his former spouse, his subsequent divorce, a cut in pay, and a personal bout with stomach cancer.  2.a.  Applicant  has  filed  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2014  and 2015, as evidenced by documentation included in his Answer to the SOR.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 2.b.    Applicant  owes  a  past-due  debt  to  the  Army  and  Air  Force    Exchange Service    in  the  amount  of  about  $11,000.    Despite  having  two  months  after  his  hearing  to  do  so,  Applicant has provided nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 2.c., 2.e., and 2.f.   Applicant owes three past-due debts to a credit union in the amount of about $21,000.  Despite having two months after his hearing to do so, Applicant has provided nothing further in this regard. These allegations are found against Applicant. 2.d.  Applicant  has  paid  a  $532  past-due  debt  on  an  automobile  loan,  as evidenced  by  documentation  showing  this  automobile  has  been  sold.   This allegation is found for Applicant. Notice I take administrative notice of certain facts relating to the Philippines: the United States  continues  to  work  with  the  Philippine  government  to  monitor  and  investigate groups  engaged  in  or  supporting  terrorist  activities  in  the  Philippines.  The  Philippine government  is  also  currently  engaged  in  a  nationwide  counter-narcotics  campaign. Extrajudicial killings have been the chief human rights concern in the Philippines. 