Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  2.a.,  and  2.b.  He  denied  SOR allegations  ¶¶  1.a.,  and  3.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor.   He  has  been  employed  with  the  defense contractor since “April of” 2017.  Applicant was terminated by his prior employer in September of 2015 for “Policy Violations,” that will be discussed at length, below.    He  served  in  the  Marine  Corp  from  2000~2006,  achieving  the  rank  of Sergeant.  Guideline  M  -  Use  of  Information  Technology,  Guideline  K  -  Handling  Protected Information & Guideline E - Personal Conduct 1.a.,  2.a.  and  2.b.  Applicant  admits  that  at  his  prior  employment  he  installed unauthorized software, a Mouse Jiggler,” which prevented his “screen from locking out.”   He  avers that  he  was  “unaware  that  it  was unauthorized,” as he was introduced to it “by a senior administrator that was acting as a mentor to . . . [Applicant] at that time.”  Applicant has  offered  five  undated  letters  of  support  from  those  he  works  with  at  his  current employer, but nothing to corroborate averment regarding the unauthorized software. 1.a., and 3.a. Applicant denies that he created five administrated accounts, some in the names of coworkers, on a classified system without approval.  He avers this misconduct was authorized.  However, Applicant has submitted nothing further in support of his averment. 1.a. Applicant denies that he falsified his time card over a seven day period.  His “Desktop’ was monitored by his employer for seven of a planned ten days.  During this period, Applicant “spent” the  majority  of  his  “Active  Time  on  Non-Work  related  activities  .  .  .  included  doing homework, browsing online retailers, and watching YouTube videos.”  I find that this was a clear misuse of information technology. 