Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a.~1.c., 1.e.~1.l, 1.o., and 2.a. and 2.b. He denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.d., 1.m., and 1.n. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  66-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since January of 2014.  Applicant immigrated to the United States from Afghanistan in 1985, and became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  1995.   He is married to a naturalized U.S. citizen, and has two children.  Guideline F – Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits that from about 2003 until 2008 he lost about $40,000 due to  gambling  at  a  local  casino.    Although, Applicant has not gambled for about 10 years, he admits that his gambling is one of the roots of his present financial difficulties.  The other root is periods of unemployment and underemployment.  1.b.~1.c.,  and  1.e.~1.l.  Applicant  admits  that  he  is  indebted  to  ten  separate creditors  for  past-due  debts  totaling  about  $20,531.    Despite  having  been  given  a  month  to  address  these  admitted past-due  debts,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  their  regard.  These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.d. Applicant disputes that he is indebted to Creditor D for an alleged past-due medical debt in the amount of about $5,014.  Despite  having  been  given  a  month  to  address  this  disputed  debt,  Applicant  has submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  As  this  debt  does  appear  as  past-due  on  the Government’s July 2017 credit report, this allegation is found against Applicant.  2 1.m. Although Applicant initially denied this alleged past-due $155 medical debt in his Answer to the SOR; at his hearing, Applicant admits that “this one may be true.”   Despite  having  been  given  a  month  to address  this  debt,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  As  this  debt does appear as past-due on the Government’s July 2017 credit report, this allegation is found against Applicant.  1.n.    Applicant  denies  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  N for an  alleged  past-due utility debt in the amount of about $105.  Despite having been given a month to address this disputed debt, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. As this debt does appear as past- due  on  the  Government’s  July  2017  credit  report,  this  allegation  is  found  against Applicant.  1.o. Applicant admits that he has an outstanding state tax lien against him in the amount of about $7,613. As Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant. Guideline B – Foreign Influence 2.a. Applicant admits that his brother, who works in a pharmacy, and his 70-year- old sister are citizens and residents of Afghanistan.  As Applicant has very little contact with either of these siblings, this allegation is found for Applicant. 2.b. Applicant admits that his mother-in-law and his father-in-law are citizens and residents of Afghanistan.  As Applicant has very little contact with either of these in-laws, this allegation is found for Applicant. Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  regarding  Afghanistan:  A  U.S. State  Department  Travel  Warning  remains  in  effect  for  Afghanistan.  Extremists associated with various Taliban networks, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria , and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout the country.  