Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  2.a,  and  2.b,  with  explanations.  His admissions and explanations are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 50 years old. He graduated from high school in 1986, and enlisted in the  U.S.  Navy.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  Navy  in  information  technology  from 1 In addition, at the end of the hearing, it became apparent that one page  of GE 2 was inadvertently missing.  Department Counsel provided a copy of the page after the hearing, and it is included in GE 2. 2 AE A is a recommendation letter. AE 1 is a September 2015 letter regarding Applicant’s completion of the conditions of community supervision after his 2014 offense. AE 2 is a work award. AE 3 and AE 4 are medical records from Applicant’s August 30, 2018 session with his doctor. AE 5 is a December 6, 2016 letter from Applicant’s counsel in a legal matter with  his wife. AE 6 through  AE  11 are recommendation letters, all dated in August or September 2018. AE A and AE 10 are the same letter. 2 1987 to 1998, and was honorably discharged. Since 1998, he has worked as a defense contractor,  either  for  his  current  employer  or  its  predecessor.  He  works  as  a  systems engineer and program manager. He has held a security clearance since his time in the Navy, and needs a clearance for his job.  Applicant and  his  wife  married  in 1994. They  have  two  daughters,  ages 20  and 21.  Both are  now  in  college. He  also  has a 28-year-old  stepson, his  wife’s  son from  a prior  relationship.  Applicant  and  his  wife  have  had  several  separations.  They  first separated in 2005. They reconciled in 2007, but his wife then spent the next four years in  jail  after  her  fourth  conviction  for  driving  under  the  influence    or  driving  while intoxicated .  She returned to the home in 2011 after her release. She moved  out  of  the  house  again  in  November  2014,  and  was  away  for  about  the  next year. Applicant and his wife separated again in about June 2016. He later retained legal counsel and considered divorce.  They remained separated at the time of Applicant’s background interview, in February 2017.  Applicant’s wife returned to the home in December 2017, though she moved out again in January 2018. It is unclear when she returned, but at the time of the hearing, they remained legally married and were living under the same roof, though maintaining separate  lives.  Applicant  said  they  do  not  speak,  and  do  not  have  arguments.  “I  don’t know  what  there  would  be  to  fight  about,”  he  said.  Applicant  is  the  household’s  sole financial provider, and he pays the mortgage.  In August 2012, Applicant had an altercation with his stepson, then age 22, over his  compliance  with  house  rules.  Applicant  had  consumed  several  beers  over  several hours  while  watching  an  early-season  college  football  game  at  home.  During  the altercation,  his  wife  called  the  police,  and  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with assault  and  battery  of  his  stepson.    In  about  October 2012,  Applicant  went  to  court  and  pleaded  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  one  year  of probation, and ordered to attend anger-management classes. He completed the terms of his sentence.   In December 2013, Applicant had an altercation with his wife. Both of them had been drinking. Applicant testified that his wife had a habit of stealing his wallet and keys, and  he  believed  she  had  done  so  on  this  occasion.  He  grabbed  her  wrists  and  pulled her up off the couch in an effort to get her to help him look for his wallet. They lost their balance and fell over, and his wife hit her head, though she was not injured. Applicant had  consumed  between  two  and  four  beers,  and  said  he  was  “buzzed”  but  not intoxicated. No one was arrested at the time.  A few months later, in February 2014, Applicant’s wife and their elder daughter, then  17,  had  an  altercation,  in  which  his  daughter  threw  a  coffee  mug  at  her  mother, hitting her in the face. Applicant’s brother-in-law was visiting at the time, and he called police. The daughter was arrested and spent the night in juvenile detention.  3 Applicant’s  wife  then  told  the  police  about  the  December  2013  altercation  with her husband. Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic assault upon his wife. He spent the night in jail.   In June 2014,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  two  years  of  probation  and ordered to attend 12 weeks of alcohol education and domestic-violence training.  Applicant’s  two  daughters  were  referred  to  therapy  through  his  employer’s Employee  Assistance  Program  .  Through  Applicant’s  own  involvement,  he  was referred to mental-health and substance-abuse counseling.3  At his initial evaluation in May 2014, Applicant reported that he began drinking at age 16. His drinking had increased gradually over the previous seven years .  During that  time, his  longest period  of  abstinence was  four  days.    Applicant  self- reported that he drank about five nights a week, usually by himself. He would have two or three shots of liquor on weekdays , and four to six shots on weekend nights. He reported some history of “shakes, queasy stomach, night  sweats,  and  anxiety  the  next  day  after  drinking  heavily,”  as  well  as  likely  partial blackouts.  He  recognized  “that  drinking  has  become  a  problem  with  his  becoming dependent on it.” He expressed a desire to cut back on his drinking though he had not been able to do so.  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  dependence  and  depressive  disorder  not otherwise  specified    by  a  Ph.D.  licensed  clinical  psychologist.    The psychologist  recommended  that  Applicant  participate  in  an  intensive  outpatient chemical-dependency program.  Applicant’s treatment plan included drug and alcohol abstinence, participation in Alcoholics  Anonymous  ,  and  development  of  an  effective  social-support  network and  of  coping  strategies  for  dealing  with  stress.  Documentation  reflects  that  Applicant was  briefed  verbally  on  the  treatment  program:    Applicant  began  the  intensive  outpatient  group  treatment  program  on  June  16, 2014.    He  missed  a  week  of  group  sessions  in  late  July  2014  after  he relapsed  into  binge  drinking.    When  he  returned  to  the  program,  he continued attendance and completed the required 18 sessions on August 11, 2014.   He  attended  AA  during  the  program.    His  prognosis  in  mid-August 2014  was  “poor  to  guarded.”    There  is  no  record  evidence  of  a subsequent prognosis. 3  GE  2  is  a  43-page  exhibit  consisting  of  treatment  records  from  both  the  psychology  provider  and  the intensive outpatient substance abuse counseling provider. 4 Applicant  returned  for  individual  therapy  with  EAP  in  late  September  2014.  He reported  that  during  the  intensive  outpatient  group  treatment,  his  longest  period  of sobriety  was  about  three  weeks.  He  resumed  drinking  shortly  after  completing  that program.  In  late  August  2014,  Applicant’s  son-in-law  moved  back  into  the  home. Applicant  and  his  wife  coped  with  the  resulting  stress  by  drinking,  despite  what  he indicated was a court order not to do so. It was recommended that he develop a more extensive  recovery  plan  with  AA  and  that  he  identify  how  to  achieve  longer-term sobriety.  At  the  time,  Applicant’s  daughters  had  been  removed  from  the  home  by  Child Protective  Services  ,  in  August  2014,  and  an  October  2014  court  date  was pending. As part of his efforts to get them released by CPS and back into his custody, Applicant  requested  and  received  a  prescription  for  Campral  to  help  with  his  alcohol cravings, because, he said, he wanted to do more than what was required.  Applicant  continued  therapy  with  the  EAP  psychologist  through  late  2014.  He was  sober  for  several  months.  He  reported  to  his  providers  that  the  Campral  was working and that he found AA useful.  In order for Applicant’s daughters to return  home  from  CPS  custody,  his  wife  had  to  leave  the  home,  which  she  did,  in November 2014. She was out of the home for the next year.  Applicant’s last documented therapy session with EAP was in November 2014.  Applicant  completed  a  parenting  class  in  December  2014.  He  completed  a batterer’s  intervention  program  between  March  and  July  2015.  He  tested  negative  for alcohol  on  August  27,  2015.  A  September  9,  2015  letter  from  community  supervision authorities documented that he completed the requirements of his probation.  He said  he  had  been  given  drug  and  alcohol  tests  during  his  probation.   Applicant  completed  his  two-year  probation  period  in  June  2016.  He  has  had  no subsequent arrests or criminal offenses.  Applicant  had  a  background  interview  in  February  2017  in  connection  with  his SCA.  He  reported  consuming  alcohol  three  or  four  times  a  week.  He  reported consuming two beers when in public, and up to eight beers at home. As to hard liquor, he reported consuming one to two cocktails in public, and three shots and four cocktails “if  he  is  trying  to  get  loose  and  have  fun.”  He  said  he  drank  three  shots  and  four cocktails, or eight beers, about twice a month “to get buzzed.” He said this had been his drinking pattern intake for the previous 10 years. He drank more when he was younger.  This alcohol consumption is alleged as a security concern, as it post-dates his diagnosis of alcohol dependence, in 2014.  to In  his  Answer the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  his  offenses,  accepted responsibility  for  his  conduct,  and  expressed  regret.  He  said  he  had  been  in  a  “toxic relationship.” He said he had completed the required treatment plan and all probationary requirements  for  both  of  his  offenses.  He  disputed  that  he  had  been  diagnosed  with alcohol dependence.  5 At  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  drinks  three  or  four  times  a  week. Sometimes  he  drinks  cocktails  or  two  or  three  shots  of  alcohol,  and  sometimes  he drinks “no more than two” bottles of beer when out with others. He denied that he drinks to excess.  Applicant testified that prior to this hearing, he had not seen documentation that he  had been  diagnosed  as alcohol dependent,  and that  his  diagnosis  had  never  been discussed with him during his treatment. . As he did in his Answer, Applicant  repeatedly  testified  that  he  had  never  been  diagnosed  with  alcohol dependence,  and  that  he  disagreed  with  the  diagnosis.  Applicant  said,  “I  don’t  agree with the statement that I’m alcohol dependent;”  and “I don’t consider [myself] - I mean, alcohol dependent, I just don’t agree with it.”  Treatment  records  reflect  that  Applicant’s  EAP  psychologist diagnosed  him  with alcohol  dependence  in  May  2014  and  that  Applicant  was  verbally  briefed  on  his treatment plan and agreed to it.  His treatment records do not indicate that Applicant was expressly told he was alcohol dependent. Applicant  testified  that  no  medical  doctor  or  licensed  clinical  social  worker  ever told him he was an alcoholic or that he had a drinking problem.  He acknowledged that he would have been told or advised to stop drinking as part of  the  intensive  outpatient  program:  “I  may  have  been.  I  mean,  that’s  their  goal.  .  .  .  I would say as part of the program, yeah.”  Applicant  has  not  seen  any  other  treatment  provider  for  substance  abuse  other that  what  is  reflected  in  GE  2.    He  does  not  currently  see  a  therapist  or alcohol  counselor.  He  does  not  believe  he  has  a  drinking  problem.    He offered  no  evidence  that  he  is  currently  participating  in  AA  or  any  similar  counseling group,  nor  did  he  indicate  involvement  with  a  support  network  to  help  him  curtail  his drinking. Applicant acknowledged that he and his wife have a history of confrontations, all of which involve alcohol: “[Applicant] reports infrequent physical fights with his wife, with the drinking having always been involved when they have occurred.”  He  recognizes  that his  wife  has  a  problem  with  alcohol,  given  her history  of  DUIs  and DWIs.  Applicant expressed regret for his actions, and accepted responsibility for them.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  at  the  hearing  to  refute  or  to  update  the 2014  diagnosis  of  alcohol  dependence.    After  the  hearing,  he  provided documentation  from  his  primary  care  physician,  whom  he  visited  on  August  30,  2018. His provider noted that Applicant “had ETOH [alcohol] issues a few years ago” and that he  was  “now  fighting  to  have  his  legal/employment  status  returned  to normal.”  Among the  “diagnoses  attached  to  this  encounter”  was  a  diagnosis  of  Alcoholism.  Applicant’s provider  “advised  counseling  to  resolve  legal/alcohol  issues.”    The documentation  does  not  include  an  updated  diagnosis  of  Applicant’s  alcohol  use disorder, nor does it note any prognosis for the future. 6 Applicant  oversees  a  contract  supporting  communication  networks  for  Navy ships.  He  has  had  no  reportable  security  incidents.  References  attest  that  he  carries himself with dignity and takes great pride in his work. He is regarded as highly valued by his government customers, and has the trust and confidence of those who rely on him. His references recommend retention of his clearance.  