Applicant is a 53-year-old logistics analyst for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant married in February 1988 and divorced in September 1999.   He  has  no  children  from  this  marriage,  but  he  has  a  nephew  that  he  has mentored since childhood, who recently earned his bachelor’s degree and is pursuing a Ph.D.    Applicant  earned  an  associate’s  degree  with  honors  in  July 2008 and a bachelors degree in human resources with honors in December 2013.  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Army  in  October  1992  and  served  12  years  of  active duty  .  He  received  a  general  discharge  under honorable  conditions  in  May  2005  for  cited  misconduct  attributable  to  a  positive  drug test for cocaine in November 2004.  Like his father before him, Applicant enjoyed his military service.  Since  October  2015,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  contractor.   Applicant’s  responsibilities  involve  managing  and  tracking Government-furnished  equipment.    He  reported  brief  unemployment  between September  2015  and  October  2015  and  prior  employment  with  federal  contractors, interspersed with periods of unemployment.   Applicant has held a security clearance since April 2007 and currently retains one.  Alcohol-history Between August 1984 and January 2016, Applicant was involved in four alcohol- related incidents. His most recent incident occurred in January 2016.   He  was  arrested  by  city  police  for  DU),  first  offense,  after  refusing  a breathalyzer test at the scene.  Possession of marijuana and open container were added charges. Applicant had consumed quite a bit of alcohol the previous night before his arrest. He could not provide any information on the source of the marijuana and open container found in his truck.  In court, he initially pled not guilty to all charges.    in  his  March  2016  court  appearance,  he  entered  a  guilty  plea  to  the open container charges and was fined $250.  The remaining  charges  of  DUI  and  marijuana  possession  were  dropped.    Applicant promptly reported his January 2016 incident to his employer.  Records confirm that Applicant was cited in April 2015 for open container while riding as a passenger in a vehicle driven by an unidentified individual.   Applicant  was  issued  a  citation  for  open  container  after  officers  on  the scene found an open beer in the vehicle.  Applicant was subsequently convicted and fined for the misdemeanor offense, which he paid.   No evidence of drinking was produced at the scene. Years  prior  to  his  April  2015  alcohol-related  incident,  Applicant  was  involved  in two  other  alcohol-related  incidents.    In  March  2005,  he  was arrested  and convicted  of  DUI.    He  was  fined  $1,153  and was  ordered  to  complete  80  hours  of  community  service  and  participate  in  an  Army substance abuse program. Applicant was also placed on probation for six months.   Applicant  complied  with  the  court’s  orders  and  attended voluntary alcohol counseling sessions. . Worthy  of  note,  Applicant’s  counselors  made  no  diagnostic  finding  of  alcohol dependence.   And in August 1984, Applicant was arrested for DUI after being stopped  by police  for  speeding.  Appearing  in court,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  DUI and paid the ordered fine.  Between  March  2005  and  April  2015,  Applicant  encountered  no  other  alcohol- related  incidents.   Since  his  January  2016  alcohol-related  incident,  he  consumes  very little alcohol  and has never abused alcohol.  And,  since  March  2017,  he  has  maintained  sustained  abstinence.   Applicant self-referred himself to an alcohol-treatment facility in March 2016 for a substance  abuse  screening  inventory    evaluation.   Applicant’s  screening  was  evaluated  by  a  masters-level  therapist,  and  he  received  an SASSI  assessment  of  low  probability.  He  was  advised  as  a  precaution  to  enter  the facility’s  Phase  I  DUI  program  in  September  2017.    He  is  credited  with completing  the  program’s  prescribed  20    sessions  that  consisted  of  individual  therapy sessions and attendance of 15 twelve-step meetings with Alcoholics Anonymous . )  While  enrolled  in  the  program,  he  addressed  issues related  to  impact  of  alcohol  addiction,  and  voluntarily  submitted  to  random  drug screens.    These  drug  screens  produced  negative  results  for  both illegal  substances  and  alcohol.    Based  on  his  demonstrated  progress  in the program, he was assigned a good prognosis. Applicant continues to attend regular AA meetings and is committed to avoiding future alcohol abuse.  Although he does not have  a  sponsor,  he  regularly  attends  his  scheduled  weekly  mixed  meetings  and sometimes leads the meetings.  In his AA meetings, he recites the serenity prayer, drinks the traditional black coffee, and still works the 12 steps.  In his November 2017 statement of intent, Applicant certified his intent to never abuse  alcohol  again  with  the  understanding  that  should  he  engage  in  future  alcohol abuse,  he  consented to the automatic revocation   of  his  security  clearance.    Applicant’s  stated  intentions impress to be sincerely made and are accepted. Drug-related issues In  May  2005,  Applicant  was  administratively  separated  from  the  Army  for  cited misconduct,  after  testing  positive  for  cocaine  in  November  2004,  and  following  his March 2005 DUI incident. Applicant denied any knowing ingestion of cocaine, attributing it  to  his  consuming  spiked  drinks  at  a  party  containing  cocaine  ingredients.  Still,  he admitted to his command that he ingested cocaine before he was tested.  After  admitting  his  wrongful  use  of  cocaine  before  testing  positive  for  the substance, Applicant was awarded NJP by his command in January  2005.  Punishment consisted of reduction in rank and assignment to 45 hours of extra duty. Applicant  accepted the test results and ensuing administrative separation and general discharge without contesting the results with appeals or other means.  Before  testing  positive  for  cocaine,  Applicant  had  never  knowingly  used  or possessed  illegal  drugs  of  any  kind.    And,  since  his  2004  positive  drug test, he has avoided use and possession of all illegal substances.  In his November 2017 statement of intent, Applicant certified his intent to never use  illegal  drugs  again  or  associate  with  anyone  who  uses  illegal  drugs  with  the understanding  that  should  he  ever  violate  illegal  drug  use  laws  and  policies,  he consented to the revocation of his security clearance.  Applicant’s stated intentions impress to be sincerely made and are accepted. Endorsements, certifications, evaluations, and awards Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  current  and  former  supervisors,  coworkers, and friends who know him and have worked with him.  Aware of  his  clearance  issues,  they  attested  to  his  solid  work  ethic,  reliability,  and trustworthiness.  Applicant’s  employment  credits  include  strong  performance  evaluations  and documented  clearances  and certifications of  course completions  in  unit  level  logistics, leadership development, and combat lifesaving.  Past performance evaluations   credit  him  with  meets  and  exceeds  requirements  in  all  rated  categories.  Among his decorations, medals, citations, and ribbons he received in recognition of his military service, and noted in his DD 214 Certificate of Release and Discharge are rd the  following:  Army  Commendation  Medal  ,  Army  Achievement  Medal,  ,  Presidential  Unit  Citation,  ;  Army  Good  Conduct  Medal  ;  National  Defense  Service  Medal  ;  Global  War  on  Terrorism th 5 Expeditionary Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; and Non-Commissioned Officer’s Professional Development Ribbon.  