Applicant  is a 67-year-old, college-educated man with two adult children. He is currently separated from his wife. He served in the U.S. Navy from 1971 to 1991, retiring honorably.  He has worked for a defense contractor as a senior logistics analyst since 2014. Applicant consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to the point of intoxication, from approximately 1966 until November 2016.  Over the years, his alcohol abuse has  led  to  multiple  alcohol-related  charges  and  arrests.  Specifically,  in  1978,  he  was charged with driving while intoxicated .  The disposition of the charge is unknown from the record. In 2001, he was arrested and charged with DWI and driving under the influence of alcohol .  The case was placed on the inactive docket. After the arrest, Applicant voluntarily entered an alcohol and substance abuse clinic where  he  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  abuse.    In  2004,  Applicant  was charged with attempting to drive a vehicle while impaired by alcohol. The case was nolle prossed.  In September 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI, DUI per se, and DWI.  Applicant was found guilty of the DWI charge, and  all  of  the  other  charges  were  nolle  prossed.  He  was  sentenced  to  60  days  in  jail ,  two  years  of  probation,  and  court  costs.  Also,  his  driver’s  license  was restricted to use to and from work for one year.  In October 2012, Applicant’s attorney referred him to a 28-day inpatient counseling program.    At  or  about  that  time,  Applicant  began  attending  Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings. Upon completion of the inpatient program, a substance abuse counselor  diagnosed  him  with  alcohol  dependence.    Upon  his discharge in November 2012, the substance abuse counselor noted that Applicant “does not believe he has alcoholism despite the fact of significant negative consequences of his use.”  Per the discharge recommendations, Applicant was to abstain from alcohol, attend outpatient counseling for relapse prevention, start Antabuse, a medication to control the  urge  to  drink  alcohol,  and  continue  attending  AA.    The counselor concluded that Applicant’s long-term prognosis was good, so long as he accepts that he can never safely use alcohol.  Applicant attended outpatient treatment from January 2013 to April 2013 on a twice - weekly basis. Some time after the end of the treatment program, Applicant resumed his alcohol consumption. As of November 2016, he was drinking two to three beers per week.  Also at that time, he was no longer attending AA meetings.  In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, dated February 27, 2018, he acknowledged his pattern of alcohol abuse, and stated that he was no longer drinking alcohol.  2 He  did  not  specify  how  long  he  had  been  free  from  alcohol.  He  has  resumed  AA attendance.  