Applicant is a 44-year-old office administrator for a defense contractor who seeks a security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant never married and has no children.  He earned a high school diploma, but did not report any post-high school education credits. He reported no military service. Since  April  2015,  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer.   Previously,  he  worked  for  other  employers  in  various  jobs.  He  reported  unemployment between  January 2014  and  July 2014,  and  between  March  2013  and  September  2013.  2 Applicant’s employment separations In December 2012, Applicant received written notice from his employer  that he had demonstrated dishonesty and unsatisfactory work performance.  The notice cited Applicant for  disappearance from the department for long periods with no valid reason,  falsely claiming he had witnessed a code blue that accounted for tardiness,  and    asking  for  a  patient  affairs  specialist  to  lie  for  him  about  his  new patient’s appointment.  As the result of his recurrent late reporting to work, he was terminated by Company A in February 2013 for cited violations of conduct and failures to meet performance expectations.  In  January  2014,  Applicant  was  terminated  by  another  employer   following his receipt of notices of unsatisfactory behavior and performance that included a security breach, lengthy breaks, failure to meet deadlines, and habitual tardiness.  The cited security breach consisted of Applicant’s leaving his computer unlocked from  the  day  before,  which  exposed  it  as  an  open  site,  containing  all  physician  salary information and other sensitive data.  Before his termination, he was written up on a  disciplinary  action  form  and  afforded  two  weeks  to  improve  his  performance  and demonstrate  timely  completion  of  assigned  projects.    When  Applicant  did  not show improvement in meeting assigned performance expectations, he was terminated by Company B. Records document that Applicant was reprimanded by Company C in March  2015   for  unsatisfactory attendance.  Embarrassed  by  the  reprimand,  Applicant  elected  to  resign  his  position  in April 2015.  Applicant’s finances Between 2014 and 2016, Applicant accumulated 13 delinquent debts, in addition to accruing  two  judgments  , and incurring a federal tax lien in September 2008 for $6,006.  To  date,  Applicant  has  made  no  documented  progress  in  addressing  his  listed delinquent debts, judgments, or federal tax lien. His post-FORM claim that he has fulfilled his federal tax liability with the Internal Revenue Service  is neither documented nor corroborated in any way and cannot be accorded much weight. Addressing the six debts he  denies  ,  Applicant  failed  to provide any proof  that  he  favorably resolved any of  these denied debts by payment, by successful  dispute,  or  by  other  acceptable  means.  Without  evidence  to  document  and corroborate  his  claims,  the  information  taken  from  his  credit  reports  must  be  accorded presumptive accuracy and reliability.  Applicant  did  not  provide  any  character  references,  performance  evaluations,  or personal  financial  information  to  assess  her  available  income  sources  and  any extenuating circumstances to consider in evaluate her overall financial situation. 3 