Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  project  manager  who  has  been  with  his  current employer for over four years. In 2013, he earned an associate’s degree in business and administration.  The  father  of  four  children,  he  is  currently  going  through  a  divorce. Applicant has never received financial counseling. Over time, when the stress of being the sole provider in his home would impact him financially, he did not know how to try to work  with  his  lenders.    At  issue  in  the  SOR  are  10  delinquent  debts amounting to about $10,000. In 2013, Applicant graduated from college. He was scheduled to begin payments on his student loans  in 2014, but he did not have the financial means to do so.  He wanted to go back to school, which would have deferred his existing student loans, but by then the loans were in default. He did not apply for forbearance or deferral because he was not aware of such programs. He did not contact his lenders to let them know he could not afford to pay.  By  early  2016,  Applicant  began  receiving  bills  from  a  collection  agency  for  the lender.    At  that  point,  he  decided  to  make  inquiries  concerning  the  debts. Applicant  recalls  making  about  four  such  payments  on  the  loans  in  or  by  December 2017. At hearing, the parties agreed that there were at least two payments for $50 each.  Evidence was also presented indicating two additional payments were made in 2017, for $15 and $30, respectively.  In March 2018, a primary lender contacted Applicant to inform him it now held his defaulted student loans. It gave him the opportunity to resume making payments, or to provide  some  information  by  which  he  and  the  lender  could  arrive  at  a  mutually agreeable  installment  plan  to  make  him  eligible  for  loan  rehabilitation  or  pay-off consolidation.    It  was  suggested  Applicant  could  make  monthly  payments  of $600,  but  Applicant  was  unable  to  pay  that  sum.  A  few  months  later,  the  loans  again went into collection. At present, Applicant is waiting for paperwork to initiate the process of consolidation. Also  at  issue  are  four  other  delinquent  accounts    The parties agreed  at  the  hearing  that  the  debt  at  1.j   was  shown  paid.   In his post-hearing package, Applicant provided evidence of the following: The $438 debt at 1.i was made subject to a settlement agreement and the final payment of $131 paid  in  October  2018.  The  $655  debt at  1.h  was  settled  in  full  on or  about  October  1, 2018.  Applicant  testified  that  the  $5,592  debt  at  1.e  was  made  subject  to  a  $100-a- month  repayment  plan.  A  copy  of  that  plan  was  not  submitted,  but  documentary evidence of a $100 payment from September 2018 was offered.  2 Today, Applicant is living within his means.  He only has one credit card with a small credit limit he rarely uses. At the end of the month, after all regular bills are paid,  he  has  a  remainder  of  between  $500-$800  from  a  net  monthly  income  of approximately $5,000. He does not expect to suffer financially from his pending divorce. He has a retirement and a savings account. Once divorced, he will live with his parents. 