In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with  limited  comments  all  of  the factual  allegations  pertaining  to  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  of  the  SOR ; and alcohol consumption of the SOR , but his comments related to the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct   were  not  responsive,  for  he  failed  to  specifically  “admit”  or “deny”  those  allegations.  Instead,  he  admitted  the  general  conclusory  introduction  to those  allegations.  Accordingly,  due  to  the  uncertainty  of  Applicant’s  intentions  with respect to the personal conduct allegations, and the Government’s failure to follow up on them, I have registered a denial to the three factual allegations. Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact: Applicant is a 26-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as  a  welder  with  his  current  employer  since  May  2015.  A  2010  high  school  graduate, Applicant received college credits over a four-year period, but did not earn a degree. He has never served with the U.S. military. He was granted a security clearance in January 2016. Applicant has never been married, and he has no children. 2 Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse,  Alcohol  Consumption,  and  Personal Conduct Applicant was a substance abuser whose substances of choice were marijuana, Adderall®,1  Suboxone,2  and  alcohol.  A  prescription  is  required  for  both  Adderall®  and Suboxone. Applicant started smoking marijuana  and drinking beer  on a daily basis after he broke his ankle while skateboarding when he  was  14-years  old,  for  they  helped  him  with  the  pain.  After  his  ankle  healed,  he continued his daily use of those two substances, essentially to relax. During an interview with  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel  Management    in  October 2017, Applicant denied that he had a problem with either substance. He said that he did not plan on stopping his usage as he had already scaled back his use of marijuana to 2- 3  times  per  month  , and his beer consumption to one six-pack every 1-2 weeks, although  he  acknowledged  that  he  consumes  alcohol  to  the  point  of  intoxication approximately  three  times  per  year  at  family  and  social  gatherings.  Furthermore,  he claimed  he  shows  up  to  work  on  time,  and  it  does  not  affect  his  various  family responsibilities.3 The  marijuana  leaf  for  the  joints  that  Applicant  initially  obtained  was  purchased from someone who would meet him at Applicant’s home. The cost was not revealed. The marijuana oil that Applicant now uses costs about $40 per vial, and he purchases it at various outlets and through a cell phone app.4 Applicant  denied  that  his  use  of  marijuana  or  alcohol  have  contributed  to  any financial,  criminal,  employment,  or security  problems.5  Applicant’s denial  is inaccurate, and not based on fact. Applicant was employed as a welder by one federal contractor from October 2010 until May 2015, during which time he was still using marijuana on a daily basis with work colleagues  in  the  parking  lot,  and  consuming  beer  before  going  to  work  on  various occasions. On February 27, 2015, Applicant was administered a random urinalysis and breathalyzer test for alcohol and drugs. He tested positive for marijuana and failed the 1 Adderall® is a prescription medication used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  and narcolepsy. Adderall, a brand name, is a combination of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine, which are central nervous system stimulants, can be habit-forming. See https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/ 2 Suboxone is a drug that contains buprenorphine, and it is used to  reduce symptoms of opiate addiction and withdrawal. See https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/ 3 Item 4 , at 4-6. 4 Item 4, supra note 3, at 5. 5 Item 4, supra note 3, at 5. 3 breathalyzer  test  for  alcohol.6  He  was  immediately  suspended  under  the  collective bargaining  agreement,  and  referred  to  the  company’s  Employee  Assistance  Program . While in the EAP, he again tested positive for marijuana and failed a breathalyzer test. As a direct result of his substance abuse under the collective bargaining agreement, on  April  14,  2015,  Applicant’s  employment  was  terminated.7  In  his  e-QIP,  Applicant reported that he had left voluntarily by mutual agreement after failing his urinalysis and breathalyzer tests.8 On May 29, 2016, Applicant exited a parking lot without slowing down or stopping at the stop sign. A police traffic stop was made and the officer smelled alcohol coming from  the  vehicle.  There  was  an  open  cold  case  of  beer  observed.  After  questioning Applicant and determining that he had consumed “a couple at lunch,” and that there were illegal drugs in the vehicle, the officer conducted a search of the vehicle. The officer found an open cold can of beer, two glass marijuana smoking devices with marijuana residue, a plastic container with two grams of marijuana in it, and two prescription bottles without the proper markings containing Adderall® and Suboxone. Applicant falsely stated to the officer that he had prescriptions for both medications,9 and in his March 5, 2018 response to  the  interrogatories,  he  acknowledged  that  in  the  last  three  years  before  the interrogatories, he had never been prescribed any opioid or Adderall®.10 He was charged with  possession  of  marijuana,  1st  offense;  possession  of  paraphenalia  –  not  syringes; prescription violation; and open container.11 On August 12, 2016, the prosecutor moved for  “nolle  prosequi”  on  the  open  container  and  marijuana  charges.12  The  result  of  the remaining charges was not reported. Although Applicant initially told the OPM investigator in October 2017 that he did not plan on stopping his usage of marijuana as he had already scaled back such use, in his November 2018 Answer to the SOR, he altered his response to say that he “will not use  marijuana  anymore.”13  Applicant  admitted  that  his  most  recent  use  of  marijuana occurred during the first week of October 2017, when he used a marijuana vaping device 6 Item 6 . 7 Item 6 . 8 Item 3 , at 12-13. 9 Item 5 . 10 Item 4 , at 2. 11 Item 5 ; Item 4 ; Item 4 ,  supra note 10. 13 Item 2 , at 1. 4 with marijuana oil.14 His claimed last use of alcohol occurred at dinner, the night before his October 2017 interview, when he consumed two beers.15 Although  Applicant  reported  in  his  e-QIP  that  he  had  attended  EAP-referred “treatment” with Alcoholics Anonymous  for one month in 2015,16 Applicant told the OPM investigator that he has never sought counseling or treatment as a result of his use of alcohol or any other substance, and he has never been professionally diagnosed as abusing alcohol, being alcohol dependent, abusing drugs, or being drug dependent.17 His participation in the EAP program was a failure because of his positive urinalysis and his failed breathalyzer test. Personal Conduct On  May  28,  2015,  when  Applicant  completed  his  e-QIP,  he  responded  to  a question pertaining to the illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23: if, in the last seven years, he had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances by injecting, snorting,  inhaling,  swallowing,  experimenting  with  or otherwise  consuming  any  drug  or controlled substance? Applicant responded that he had tried marijuana in high school and then again one night in March 2015, while partying with friends. He added that he was now more responsible and needed to be gainfully employed. Applicant certified that his response was “true, complete, and correct” to the best of his knowledge and belief.18 In fact, his answer was deliberately false and incomplete, because he concealed both his true history of marijuana abuse and his declared future intentions, all as set forth above. Based on his response, a security clearance was given to him in January 2016. When he was questioned by the OPM investigator in in October 2017, Applicant candidly admitted that he did not disclose his full history of marijuana use because he did not want to lose his job, and he also admitted that he was not candid during an earlier OPM interview – an unalleged act of conduct in the SOR – because he was scared and did not want to lose his security clearance because he would also lose his job.19 The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, 