Applicant is 55 years old. She was widowed in 2012 and remarried in 2017. She is  a  high  school  graduate  and  has  worked  for  her  current  employer  since  2011.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  she  has  failed  to  meet  her  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant admitted SOR allegations 1.a, 1.b, 1.f, and 1.i. She denied SOR allegations 1.c through 1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.j through 1.w. With regard to all of her financial issues Applicant maintained that her late husband took care of the finances until his death. After his passing in 2012 Applicant stated that it took her over two years to begin resolving her financial issues. However, Applicant was often vague as to her knowledge of her past, or current, financial situation.  The SOR alleges in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b that Applicant failed to timely file her Federal and state tax returns for at least tax years 2010 through 2015. The SOR was amended at the hearing to add tax year 2016 in both allegations, in conformity with the evidence  and  in  accordance  with  the  Directive,  Additional  Procedural  Guidance, paragraph E3.1.17.  2 In Section 26 of Applicant’s e-QIP  she admitted that she had not filed Federal or state taxes for tax years 2010 through 2014. Asked for the reason she stated, “late husband was the bookkeeper.”  She further stated that she was in the process  of  finding  out  what  she  owed,  that  she  was  obtaining  tax  help,  and  that  back taxes were being paid through garnishment. 1.a. Applicant admitted that she had not filed her Federal tax returns in a timely manner from 2010 to at least 2015. Documentation provided by Applicant from the IRS showed that she had not filed her 2010 through 2014 Federal tax returns as of November 2017. Applicant testified that she had prepared some of these returns by hand, however she also testified that she did not know if these returns had ever been filed. She also stated that one or more of her back  tax  returns  may  have  been  filed  by  a  tax  preparer  she  had  hired.   Documentation provided by Applicant from the IRS showed that her 2015 Federal tax  return  was  filed  August  15,  2016.  Additional  documentation  provided  by  Applicant from her accountant showed that her 2016 Federal tax return was to be filed after March 31, 2018. I find that both returns were filed late.  1.b. Applicant admitted that she had not filed her state tax returns for at least tax years 2010 through 2015. Applicant stated at the hearing that she believed these returns had been filed. However, other than the 2016 state tax return, she submitted no evidence supporting her statement.  Applicant  also  testified  that  she  had  paid  state  back  taxes  through  garnishment and did not owe any money to the state.  1.c.  Applicant  denied  in  her  March  2018  Answer  that  she  owed  the  Federal Government $11,108.44 for 2010 back taxes, stating had not received any notice from IRS. Documentation  supplied  by  Applicant  from  the  IRS  showed  that  she  received notice of this debt in November 2017.  Applicant testified that she believed all of her Federal back taxes had been paid through assignment of her tax refund. However, documentation from the IRS provided by Applicant after the hearing showed that she continued to owe $12,998.59 for that tax year. This debt is not resolved.  1.d.  Applicant  denied  in  her  Answer  that  she  owed  the  Federal  Government $10,488.53 for 2011 back taxes, stating had not received any notice from IRS. 3 Documentation  supplied  by  Applicant  from  the  IRS  showed  that  she  received notice of this debt in November 2017.  Applicant testified that she believed all of her Federal back taxes had been paid through assignment of her tax refund. However, documentation from the IRS provided by Applicant after the hearing showed that she continued to owe $12,996.69 for that tax year. This debt is not resolved.  1.e.      Applicant  denied  in  her  Answer  that  she  owed  the  Federal  Government $40.89 for 2015 back taxes, stating had not received any notice from IRS. Documentation  supplied  by  Applicant  from  the  IRS  showed  that  she  received notice of this debt in November 2017.  Applicant testified that she believed all of her Federal back taxes had been paid through assignment of her tax refund. Documentation from the IRS provided by Applicant after the hearing showed that she  had no debt for that tax year. This debt is resolved. 1 1.f. Applicant admitted that she owed a medical creditor $457 for a past-due debt. Applicant had not paid this debt as of the date of the hearing. Applicant testified that she hoped to pay this debt by the end of July 2018. She supplied no evidence that showed this debt had been paid or disputed after the hearing. It is not resolved.  1.g. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $38 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.h. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor  $37 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.i. Applicant admitted that she owed a medical creditor $531 for a past-due debt. Applicant had not paid this debt as of the date of the hearing. Applicant testified that she hoped to pay this debt by the end of July 2018. She supplied no evidence that showed this debt had been paid or disputed after the hearing. It is not resolved.  1 Applicant Exhibit P also showed that Applicant owed $4,412.03 in 2009 back taxes. The existence of this debt  cannot  be  considered  in  Applicant’s  case-in-chief.  It  can,  however,  be  considered  in  determining mitigation. 4 1.j. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $561 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.k. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $499 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.l. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $432 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.m. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $33 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. Applicant Exhibits N and O are copies of dispute or resolution letters Applicant sent to this creditor. However, the amounts in the letters do not match this debt, so there is no way to know if  either letter concerns this specific debt. She supplied no other evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.n. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $32 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. Applicant Exhibits N and O are copies of dispute or resolution letters Applicant sent to this creditor. However, the amounts in the letters do not match this debt, so there is no way to know if  either letter concerns this specific debt. She supplied no other evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.o. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $2,514 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.p. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $2,343 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence 5 showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.q. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $1,720 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.r. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $456 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.s. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $423 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. Applicant Exhibits N and O are copies of dispute or resolution letters Applicant sent to this creditor. However, the amounts in the letters do not match this debt, so there is no way to know if  either letter concerns this specific debt. She supplied no other evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.t. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $323 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. Applicant Exhibits N and O are copies of dispute or resolution letters Applicant sent to this creditor. However, the amounts in the letters do not match this debt, so there is no way to know if  either letter concerns this specific debt. She supplied no other evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.u. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $125 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  1.v. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $99 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  6 1.w. Applicant denied that she owed a medical creditor $77 for a past-due debt. Applicant testified that she believed she had successfully disputed this debt, since it no longer showed up on her credit report. However, Applicant did not submit any evidence showing that her dispute had been accepted. She supplied no evidence that the debt had been paid or disputed. It is not resolved.  Mitigation Applicant  has  had  a  successful  career  over  the  years.  She  has  received recognition for her work performance.  