Applicant  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  2.a.  He  also  provided extenuating  and  mitigating  information.  His  SOR  admissions  are  incorporated  in  the findings of fact. Applicant is a 33-year-old controls technician employed at a DOD hospital for the previous  six  months.    He  seeks  continued  CAC  eligibility  as  a  condition  of  his employment.    In  2003,  he  graduated  from  high  school.    In  2004,  he 2 married, and in 2007, he divorced.  In 2014, he married.  His children are ages 13 and 16.  He has never served in the military.  There is no evidence of security violations, felony convictions, or illegal drug abuse. In  2016,  Applicant’s  employer,  E,  authorized  him  to  use  E’s  truck  for  business purposes.  E authorized him to use the truck to drive from home to construction work sites.  Applicant said a Global Positioning System  in E’s truck that Applicant was assigned incorrectly indicated the truck was being used at 1:00 am.  E also accused Applicant of using E’s truck at a place and time when E did not have an  active  construction  site.   Applicant  denied  driving  E’s  truck  on the  weekend and at 1:00 am.  On December 16, 2016, Applicant ended his employment with  E.  Applicant said he quit because he was not going to be allowed to drive E’s  truck  from  home  to  work,  and  he  was  unhappy  about  the  way  E  was  conducting operations.  He contended that he left employment with E voluntarily.  He did not provide two weeks of notice before leaving employment with E.  In  response  to  a  DOD  request  for  information,  E  said  Applicant  was  “fired  for work-related  misconduct,”  including  “falsifying  company  documents  and  misuse  of company credit cards.”  In response to a state request for information, E  said  Applicant  was  “[f]ired  for  work-related  misconduct”  and  explained  that  he “falsif[ied] company documents and misuse[d] company credit cards.”  According to a  state  document, Applicant  told the  state  in  his  request for unemployment  benefits that he was “fired” and “I was terminated for taking my work truck home.”  At his hearing, Applicant said he was supposed to use the company credit card for  ice,  water,  and  fuel.    Applicant  asserted  the  credit  card  was  misused  by someone other than himself or maybe the credit card account was “hacked.”  He said someone improperly charged about $80 at a grocery store on his assigned credit card.  He denied that he falsified any company documents.  Applicant received unemployment benefits from the state for about three weeks after leaving his employment from E.  In order to receive unemployment benefits from  the  state, he  told  the  state  that  he  was  terminated for  taking his  truck  home.   He denied that he lied to the state to get money, and he said the truth was he and E “just  parted  ways.”    He  explained  that  he  did  not  really  lie  to  the  state because E said he was fired, and he said, “[b]asically, I guess, I was terminated, but I left, because I never went back.”  On September 13, 2017, Applicant completed and signed an OF 306.  He answered,  “no”  to  question  12,  which  asked,  “During  the  last  5  years,  have  you  been fired from any job for any reason, did you quit after being told that you would be fired, did you leave any job by mutual agreement because of specific problems, . . . ?” Applicant said that at the time he completed his September 13, 2017 OF 306 he did  not fully  read  question  12.    At  his  hearing,  he  was  asked  to  explain  the inconsistency between his statement to the state that he was fired and his statement to the  federal  government  on  his  OF  306  that  he  was  not  fired.  He  explained  that  his 3 statement to the state related to his desire for unemployment benefits. The error on his OF 306 was because he filled out his OF 306 quickly, and “he was trying to get back to work.”  