Applicant admitted to all the allegations of the SOR, except for SOR ¶¶ 1.b., 1.e., 1.f., 1.i., 1.l., and 1.q. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 32-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He has been employed, part time, with  the  defense  contractor  since  about  November  of  2015.  He  is  divorced,  and  has three children, two of which he is paying child support for.  He is homeless, and lives in his car.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  admits  a  state  tax  lien  to  his  former  state  of  residence  in  the amount of about $553.  Despite having two months to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  denies  that  he  has  an  outstanding  judgment  to  Creditor  B  in  the amount of about $1,828.  As this outstanding judgment  appears  on  the  Government’s  February  2016  credit  report  ;  and  as Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard,  this  allegation  is  found  against Applicant.  1.c. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor C in the amount of about  $395.    As  he  has  submitted  nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits that he has past-due child support payments totaling about $12,436. He avers that he is paying about $120 each month by way of garnishment to address this admitted debt.  As Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant. 1.e.  Applicant denies that he has a past-due debt to Creditor E in the amount of about $7,202.  As this past-due debt appears on the Government’s October 2017 CR; and as Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant.  1.f. Applicant denies that he has a past-due debt to Creditor F in the amount of about $2,314.  As this past-due debt appears on the Government’s October 2017 CR; and as Applicant has submitted 2 nothing further in this  regard,  this allegation is found against Applicant.   1.g. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor G in the amount of about $2,058.  As he has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant. 1.h and 1.j. Applicant admits that he has two past-due debts to Creditor H in an amount totaling about $1,766.   As  he  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard,  these allegations are found against Applicant. 1.i.  Applicant  denies  that  he  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  I  in  the  amount  of about  $683.    As  this  past-due  debt  appears  on  the Government’s October 2017 CR; and as Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant.  1.k.~1.r. Applicant, at his hearing, now admits that he has eight past-due debts to eight separate creditors in an amount totaling about $20,021.   As he has submitted nothing further in this regard, these allegations are found against Applicant. 1.s.  and  1.t.  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  past-due  student  loans totaling  about $80,000.   They were once in “forbearance”; and as such, he avers he will again seek forbearance.  As he has submitted nothing further in this regard, these allegations are found against Applicant. 