Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  -  1.g.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  28  years  old.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate.  He  has  never  married and he has no children. He served in the U.S. Navy from April 2010 to February 2012, when he received a general discharge under honorable conditions.  When  Applicant  was  a  junior  sailor,  he  was  walking  on  base  one  evening,  and saw  a  debit  card  lying  on  the  ground.  He  picked  it  up,  and  instead  of  turning  it  in  to authorities, he used it for his own expenses, such as gas and utilities. He charged about $230 on the card before he was caught.  Soon  thereafter,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  the  Navy  Criminal  Investigative Service  .  He  was  charged  with  violating  Article  121  of  the  Uniform  Code  of Military  Justice  ,  was  referred  to  Captain’s  Mast, where  he  received  non-judicial  punishment  of  45  days  restriction  and  45  days  extra duty, and reduced in rank. A few months later, he was notified that he was being given a general discharge under honorable conditions.  Applicant paid full restitution to the sailor whose debit card he misused.2  After  leaving  the  Navy,  Applicant  was  briefly  unemployed.  He  then  worked  odd jobs from spring 2012 through the end of 2013.  In January 2014, he was hired by  a  defense  contractor.  In  October  2014,  he  took  a  job  with  the  same employer  in  a new state. He divided his time between the two locations until September 2017, when he moved to the new state full time.  2 The debit card Applicant found was issued by the same institution that is the creditor for all but one of the SOR debts, but none of them relate to that incident.  2 Applicant  worked  in  that  position  from  October  2014  until  June  2016,  when  he and many others were laid off. He then worked odd jobs until February 2018, when he was rehired by his current employer and clearance sponsor.  The SOR alleges that Applicant has about $17,000 in delinquent debt. Applicant incurred all of the debts during his time in the Navy, and all but one of the debts are to the same creditor, a credit union. The debts are listed on Applicant’s credit reports from June 2016, November 2017, and December 2018.  Applicant used loans  to  finance  the  purchase  of  two  motorcycles  and  a  used  car,  and  also  had  other loans  and  credit  cards. This  includes SOR ¶¶  1.a  ,  1.b  , 1.c  , 1.d , 1.e , and 1.f .  The accounts remain on a recent credit report.  In  about  2012,  Applicant  received  an  e-mail  on  his  military  e-mail  account concerning an overseas  job  offer.  He  applied for the  job,  but  was soon  asked  to  send money to the sender. This was a scam, as Applicant belatedly realized, but not before he took out another loan  to pay for it.  Applicant  fell  behind  on  his  various  accounts,  and  they  were  charged  off  or placed  for  collection.  He  later  spoke  to  someone  at  the  credit  union  in  an  attempt  to settle  his  accounts,  but  took  no  further  action  to  resolve  them.    As  he testified, “I didn’t deal with it for so long that it was like, you just start new.”  He has not reached out to the credit union recently to resolve his debts.  SOR  ¶  1.g    is  a  debt  to  a  health  club  in  the  geographic  location  where Applicant  served  in  the  Navy.  Applicant  said  he  notified  the  gym  that  he  was  quitting membership  when  he  moved.  The  account  shows  no  activity  after  he  left  the  area  in January  2014.  Applicant  disputed  the  account  and  it  no  longer  appears  on  his  credit report.  Applicant later engaged a debt resolution firm to help him clean up his credit. He paid them $99 a month for 14 months. He now has other credit cards that he is using more  responsibly  to  improve  his  credit  rating.  He  has  received  informal  advice  from family  members  on  how  to  improve  his  credit  but  has  not  pursued  formal  credit counseling.  Applicant  also acknowledged  that for  a  three-year  period,  he did not file  his  tax returns.  He  later  filed  all  those  returns.  He  also  acknowledged  that  at  the  time  of  the hearing  his 2017 tax returns remained unfiled.3  Applicant makes $19.36 an hour. He works full time, He earned about $40,000 in 2018. He pays $1,600 in rent and is current. He lives with a cohabitant, his girlfriend. He has no other debts but for those in the SOR. He also has a part-time, evening job as a security guard, earning $80 a night two or three nights a week. He said he was unable 3  Applicant’s  tax  issues  are  not  alleged  in  the  SOR,  so  I  have  not  considered  them  as  disqualifying conduct. 3 to  address  his  debts  because  his  employment  was  not  particularly  stable.  He  also wanted to focus on more recent expenses once he started his new life in a new location.  Applicant acknowledged his mistakes. He accepted blame for accruing his older debts, and for not addressing them responsibly. He noted that he has not accrued any newer debt, and that he works hard and stays out of trouble.  