Applicant is 61 years old. He graduated from high school in 1975, and has some college, but no degree.  He is married since 1980 with four adult children, and six  grandchildren.  Applicant  served  honorably  as  a  radar  man  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from 1975  to  1979,  and  he  earned  several  awards  for  his  military  service.    He  has been  employed  as  a  logistics  manager  for  a  major  federal  contractor  since  1983.  He reports having a security clearance for 42 years, without incident.  The  SOR  alleges  his  failure  to  timely  file  federal  income  tax  returns  for  seven years  from  tax  year    2010  to  TY  2016.  Applicant  admitted  this  allegation  in  his answer  to  the  SOR.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  recently  filed  all  of  the  delinquent federal  income  tax  returns.    He  provided  answers  to  interrogatories  in  April 2018 indicating that he does not owe unpaid federal income taxes for any period, and he does not owe unpaid state income taxes. He also attached Internal Revenue Service  income tax transcripts for TY 2010 through TY 2017. The  IRS  transcripts  reveal  that  Applicant  filed  his  income  tax  returns  late  in  all relevant years as follows: TY 2010 filed April 21, 2013; TY 2011 filed April 22, 2013; TY 2012 filed May 22, 2013; TY 2013 filed August 28, 2017 ; TY 2014 secured February 27, 2018; TY 2015 filed January 22, 2018; and TY 2016 filed January 23, 2018. He also attached a copy of a FORM 1040 income tax return for TY 2017  indicating  that  he  earned  adjusted  gross  income    of  $225,298.   Applicant testified that he employed a certified public accountant  starting in 2014- 2015;  he  never  requested  an  extension  of  time  to  file  income  tax  returns  late;  and  he was never penalized by the IRS.  Applicant  testified  that  “I  just  believed  because  there  was  money  coming  back, there  was  no  concern.  I  had  the  mindset  that  the  government  is  making  out  because their holding onto my money longer.”  He did not know that willful failure to file income  tax  returns  timely,  when  required,  would  constitute  a  misdemeanor  under 1 Unless stated otherwise, the source of the information in this section is Applicant’s September 13, 2016 Security  Clearance  Application    and  the  summary  of  his  personal  subject  interview    on October 25, 2017.  2 federal  law.2    He  testified  that  it  just  was  not  a  priority  in  his  life.    He never contacted the IRS to inquire about possible problems with filing tax returns late.  When  he filed  the tax  returns  late,  he  received  refunds  every  year,  except TY 2013. He was informed that since he filed more than three years late in that particular TY, he was not entitled to the refund that he would have otherwise received.  Applicant denied the allegation at SOR ¶ 2.c that he falsified material facts when he completed his SCA and responded “No” to all questions in section 26. The allegation states he “deliberately failed to disclose that which is set forth in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b, above.” SOR ¶ 1.a concerned the failure to file federal income tax returns for TYs 2010–2016,  but  there  is  no  SOR  ¶  1.b.  Applicant  testified  credibly  that  when  he completed the SCA in September 2016, he was still laboring under the false impression that  he  did  not  have  to  file  returns,  if  he  was  owed  a  refund.  Thus,  he  did  not deliberately  intend  to  falsify  his  SCA.  He  felt  that  since  he  had  filed  or  was  filing  the returns, albeit late, he was in compliance.  In  May  2015,  Applicant  received  a  final  written  warning  for  violating  his employer’s policy for maintaining a safe and respectful workplace free from threats and violence.  Applicant was counseling a subordinate, when he became exasperated and behaved in an unprofessional and inappropriate manner by slamming his hands on the table and raising his voice in an angry tone. When the subordinate employee tried to exit  the  room, Applicant  slammed  the  door and  tried  to  dissuade  the  subordinate from going to speak to a supervisor.  Applicant testified he never placed a hand on the  subordinate,  but  he  was  admittedly  frustrated  with  the  subordinate’s  response. Applicant stated it wasn’t the first time he was called out at work for having a loud voice.  It was the only written warning that he received.  A  joint  personnel  adjudications  system    entry  dated  August  31,  2016, indicates  that  Applicant  received  a  one-week  suspension  and  final  written  warning  for unauthorized  downloads  and  violation of  his  employer’s  computer-use  policies.   Applicant admitted this allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b and testified that he was negotiating with  an  un-cleared  person  about  possible  procurement  and  use  of  another  company’s proprietary information contained on a thumb drive.  He accepted the thumb drive, which contained engineering documents for Applicant’s company to review for a possible bid.  A  colleague  of  Applicant’s  informed  him  that  the  colleague  was  not  comfortable downloading  this  thumb  drive’s  contents  onto  corporate  computers  of  Applicant’s employer  because  it  might  violate  computer-security  policy.    Applicant  testified he  was  impatient that the thumb  drive  had not  already  been  scanned by  security,  and he  was  motivated  to  move  forward  with  the  project.    He  acknowledged  his colleague’s concerns and receipt of a June 1, 2016 email advising that the best course was  to  take  the  thumb  drive  to  security  for  screening  before  insertion.3   2 26 U.S.C. § 7203. 3 GE 6, attachment 2. 3 Applicant  nonetheless  plugged  the  thumb  drive  directly  into  his  employer’s  computer and uploaded it onto the corporate shared drive.   He acknowledged that this was  an  error  in  judgment.    No  malware  infection  or  damage  resulted  from  this breach  of policy.    Applicant  stated  that  he had  taken annual  computer-security training  and  certifications,  but  earlier  computer  training  did  not  emphasize  the prohibition  against  introducing  outside  media    into proprietary corporate-owned computers.  Applicant  sought  to  improve  his  computer  skills-knowledge,  and  he  took additional courses provided to adjust his leadership style.  He provided several performance evaluations for each year from 2012 through 2017.  They reflect that Applicant  exceeded  or  significantly  exceeded  his  employer’s  goals  and  expectations most  years.  He  also  provided  three  favorable  character  reference  letters  from  his pastor,  church  administrator  and  a  colleague.    They  attest  to  Applicant’s character, integrity, honesty and work ethic. I found his testimony was direct and candid. 