Applicant  is  a  71-year-old  administrative  assistant.  She  has  worked  on  various government  contracts  for  over  25  years.  She  was  first  awarded  a  secret  clearance  in 2008.  Applicant  was  unemployed  for  about  a  month  in  2007.    Once  earning about  $60,000  a  year,  she  now  only  earns  about  $32,000  under  her  present  contract. Applicant is a high school graduate who has completed some business school courses. She  has  two  middle-aged  children  and  her  spouse  is  deceased.  At  issue  is approximately $37,000 in delinquent debts, and multiple theft-related offenses. In  2010  or  2011,  Applicant  had  a  gathering  at  her  home.  After  it  was  over,  she discovered her “wallet and everything” was stolen.  The police would not take a report because she had no idea who had stolen her wallet and there was no evidence of burglary.  About three months later, she started getting calls about debts that were  not  hers.  She  wrote  some  of  the  creditors  to  apprise  them  of  the  situation.  She also contacted some lending institutions with which she had bona fide debts. In addition, Applicant signed for both a truck and an apartment for a friend facing hard times. The individual lost their job and left Applicant with two additional balances.  and 1.b ) Applicant learned that these debts were delinquent in 2018, after her credit report was generated.  In January 2018, Applicant  spoke  with  both  creditors  and  was  told  they  would  be  willing  to  reach  a settlement,  but  no  documentary  evidence  of  such  an  offer  or  arrangement  was introduced.  With  regard  to  the delinquent debts  reflected  in  the  SOR from 1.c-1.l,  Applicant asserts they are the product of identity fraud, the result of the identity theft that occurred during  the  above-referenced  house  party,  although  the  evidence  indicated  the  debt  at 1.f pre-dates that event.  Given the circumstances, she denies responsibility for  the  debts.    No  formal  disputes  regarding  these  accounts  have  been documented.    These  debts  amount  to  about  $4,725,  arranged  in  size  from $57 to $1,438, and include debts for such things as cable service, telecommunications service, and retail entities. The  SOR  allegation  at  1.m  concerns  a  1980  charge  for  four  bad  checks   which  led  to  a  60-day  period  of  incarceration,  suspended,  and  three months  of probation. Applicant  does not  remember  this  incident and  believes  some  of these  related  citations  may  be  duplicative.    A  November  1981  charge  was entered for forgery  and bad check , leading to a sentence of 16- 18 months of incarceration, suspended, and two years’ probation. Subsequent charges for  bad  checks  were  issued  in  1982,  1995  ,  and  1997,  followed  by  a  2001 charge  of  theft    and  shoplifting  .  Overall,  Applicant  is confused  with  regard  to  these  allegations  and  any  related  specifics.    Applicant 2 noted that these related debts must have been satisfied for, had they not been honored, she  would  have  been  formally  incarcerated.    Applicant,  however,  had  no documentary evidence regarding such payment to offer. In March 2018, Applicant completed a security clearance application . She deliberately answered “no” in response to “Section 25. Investigations and Clearance Record – Government Debarment: ‘Have you EVER been debarred from government employment?’” In doing so, she failed to disclose she had been barred from competing in Office of Personnel Management  examinations or accepting appointments in the  competitive  Federal  service  from  April  2,  1986,  to  April  1,  1988.  She  similarly deliberately  answered  “no” to  “Section  26.  Financial  Record  – Delinquency Involving Routine  Accounts: ‘Other than previously listed, have any of the  following  happened?  In  the  past  seven    years,  you  had  any  possessions  or property  voluntarily  or  involuntarily  repossessed  or  foreclosed?  In  the  past  seven   years,  you  had  bills  or  debts turned over  to  collection  agency? In  the  past  seven   years,  you  had  any  account  of  credit  card  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for failing  to pay  as agreed?’” This admitted  denial  was  in  contradiction  to  her  answers  in allegations 1,a, 1,d, and 1.l, above. in  response In  addition,  Applicant  admitted  she  falsified  material  facts  on  an  October  2010 SCA  in  answering  “no”  to  “Section  25.  Investigations  and  Clearance  Record  – Government  Debarment:  ‘Have  you  EVER  had  a  clearance  or  access  authorization denied,  suspended,  or  revoked;  or  been  debarred  from  government  employment?,’” when  she  was,  in  fact,  barred  from  competing  in  OPM  examinations  or  accepting appointments in the competitive Federal service from April 2, 1986, to April 1, 1988. On  an  August  2008  SCA,  in  response  to  “Section  18.  Your  Investigations Record:  “To  your  knowledge,  have  you  ever  had  a  clearance  or  access  authorization denied,  suspended,  or  revoked,  or  have  you  ever  been  debarred  from  government employment?,” Applicant intentionally answered “no.” In doing so, she deliberately failed to  disclose  the  fact  she  had  been  barred  from  competing  in  OPM  examinations  or accepting appointments in the competitive Federal service from April 2, 1986, to April 1, 1988. In  March  2016,  Applicant  completed  another  SCA.  She  falsified  facts  in  its execution  by  answering  “no”  in  response  to  “Section  22.  Police  Record:  ‘Have  you EVER  been  charged  with  any  felony  offense?”’”  Her  falsity  was  based  on  her  earlier charges  for  bad  check  and  forgery,  noted  above.  A  similar  falsity  was  committed  by Applicant with regard to the same question on a SCA from October 2010. 