In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the two delinquent student loans , an unpaid state tax warrant , and an unpaid judgement . He denied the remaining allegations. After a  thorough  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits,  I  make  the  following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  aircraft  avionics  technician  who  has  worked  for  a defense  contractor  since  July  2015.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security clearance.2  From May 1991 through June 2011, he honorably served in the U.S. Navy. One of his assignment was as a Navy recruiter.  After retiring, he obtained a  job  paying  $17  an  hour,  which  was  a  decrease  in  monthly  income  of  approximately $1,500.    His  current  monthly  budget  shows  a  total  income  of  $4,648,  which includes  his  $1,260  Navy  retirement  pay,  and  total  expenses  of  $4,531.    His overtime pay is not reflected in his budget because it is not a guaranteed monthly amount.  His annual household income is approximately $78,000.  Applicant is married and has three children ages 21, 21, and 18.  Two of his children are in college, and the third graduated high school a couple months following the hearing.    His  daughter  pays  for  her  tuition  with  student  loans  and  his  son  is attending community college. Both live at home, and he provides them with funds for food and gas.  On  Applicant’s  September  2016  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations Processing , he indicated he had failed to file tax returns for tax years 2010, 2011, 2012, and 2013.  He did have taxes withheld from his wages during those years.  For tax year 2015, he asserted he had filed a request for an extension.  He indicated the student loans were “in default and [the Internal Revenue Service  was] going  to  garnish any  returns.  I thought  I  was  going  to be  able to  catch up  and  get  my return[s]. I was unable to and lost track of time.”  He stated he had hired a law firm 2 In 1995, Applicant obtained a DoD secret clearance and in February 1991, he received a secret clearance after an Expanded National Agency Check .  2 in May 2016 to assist him with his unpaid taxes.  No other delinquent accounts or unpaid judgment were listed on his e-QIP. At  the  time  Applicant  retired  from  the  Navy,  his  wife  stopped  working  due  to fibromyalgia.  Additionally, she had been working in the housing financial industry, which took a serious downturn in 2011.  He pays $200 monthly medical bills for his wife’s treatment with the remainder paid by TRICARE.  She receives $1,000 monthly in disability payments, which he did not include as income in his budget because he considered that income to be her income.  On December 7, 2017, Applicant had an enhanced subject interview.  He listed his current financial status as “poor.”  In his household, his wife manages their  finances.    He  discovered  a  number  of  delinquent  accounts  when  his  wife obtained a copy of their credit report. He was unaware of the delinquent accounts at the time  he  completed  his  e-QIP.  He  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  retiring  from  the military.  While  in  the  military  his  salary  and  cost-of-living  adjustments  covered  his expenses. When he left the military, paying his debts became harder. He said he now had  a  good  paying  job  and  planned  to  get  his  finances  in  order.  He  expressed  a willingness to pay his debts.  In Applicant’s interview, he stated he did not know why he failed to file his Federal and state income tax returns. He stated he meant to file each year, but he was busy, and the time slipped away. He did not know how much he owed in taxes and penalties.  He admitted owing a state tax warrant  entered against him in 2017.  In October 2018, the state filed a $1,297 state tax warrant.  The record does not reflect if there are two separate warrants issued for different tax years or just one tax warrant that duplicated the same tax debt. In his December 2017 interview, he said he planned to immediately contact his attorney to determine how to satisfy the tax debt.  He contacted his attorney in July 2016.  At the hearing, Applicant stated he did not know what had been filed on his behalf.  At the hearing, Applicant stated his 2009 federal tax refund had been intercepted and applied to his student loan obligation. He said he did not file his 2010 returns because he  hoped  to  get  his  student  loan  obligation  in  order  so  his  tax  refunds  would  not  be intercepted and again applied to his student loan debt.  As an active duty military member, his home state did not require him to file a state return for 2010 because he was serving outside of his home state.  A  December  2018  letter  from  his  attorney  stated  he  had  “already  brought [Applicant] into filing compliance and are actively working toward resolving the liabilities owed to the IRS.”  No documentation showing copies of returns or other evidence of filing accompanied the letter. The letter made no reference to state tax return filings, but  Applicant  asserted  his  attorney  was  also filing  his  state tax  returns.   At  the hearing, he stated he was still trying to determine how much he owed in taxes and could not remember receiving any correspondence from the IRS.  He stated the IRS 3 was seeking approximately $20,000 for delinquent taxes.  However, he believes he had overpaid his taxes for the years in question and believes he will receive a refund once everything is determined.  His attorney had advised him not to make any payments until the amount of his tax obligation was determined.  Based on his monthly budget, he anticipates he will be making $200 monthly for tax repayment plan. He currently makes no payments.  Applicant asserted he had filed his 2016 and 2017 tax returns in a timely manner and expected to receive an $859 Federal tax refund for 2017, and he owed $288 for 2017 state taxes and $400 for his 2016 state taxes.  No state tax was taken from his Navy retirement pay resulting in the state tax owed.  At the hearing, he presented a copy of his 2017 Federal income tax return, which was returned to him. He was asked to submit copies of his 2016 and 2017 returns following the hearing.  No documents were received following the hearing. He said he had a copy of his 2016 return in his vehicle. He said he attempted to get copies of his tax transcripts, but was requested to provide a credit card number to obtain the transcripts.  Since he had ended his use of his credit cards in 2008, he was unable to provide the requested credit card number and, therefore, was unable to get copies of his tax transcripts.   No  copies  of  tax  returns,  tax  transcripts,  or  correspondence  with  the  IRS  were received following the hearing. In 1998 and 1999, Applicant obtained student loans totaling $18,000.  He is four classes short of obtaining his bachelor’s degree and has not taken any college class in the past ten years. He asserted, but provided no documentation, that the loans had been in deferment status on and off over the years. His last payment was made in 2017. In his interview, he said he stopped paying due to an “oversight,” not further explained, and  planned  to  start  making  payments  as  soon  as  possible.    His  2009  Federal income tax refund had been intercepted and applied to his student loan obligation.  The record does not reflect the amount applied to his student loan obligation. Applicant’s  October  2016  credit  report  lists  two  education  collection  accounts .  His March 2018 credit report lists the two collection  accounts  with  the  comment  “Paid  Collection;  Student  Loan.”  However,  the credit report also lists a “Student Loan Assigned to the Government.”  His budget anticipates a $200 monthly payment on a loan, which Applicant says is for his student loan payment.  he admits owing approximately $18,000 on his student loans and is currently making no payments on his student loans.  Once his taxes are straightened out. He intends to start a $200 monthly allotment for his student loans.  He does not know who currently holds his student loans.  During Applicant’s interview, he stated he had no knowledge concerning a number of delinquent debts including the following SOR debts: SOR 1.a , SOR 1.b , and  SOR  1.g  .   He  did  acknowledge  a  2012  judgment   against him by the owners of his former residence. His rent was $1,200 and he believed the amount of the judgment represented one month’s rent plus late fees and expenses. 4  He did not respond to the notice of hearing he received because he thought it only concerned eviction and not for unpaid rent and additional amounts.  At the time of his interview, he stated he intended to look into the matter and, if responsible, to satisfy the debt as soon as possible. At the hearing, he stated he intended to address the judgment because he had a better understanding of what was happening.  When asked about the delinquent accounts, Applicant could not provide the dates the  debts  were  incurred,  why  they  were  incurred,  when  they  became  delinquent,  any action taken to satisfy the debts, and he did not know the creditors’ telephone numbers or addresses.  He intended to look into the accounts and begin to satisfy them one at a time. In 2013, Applicant’s vehicle was repossessed and he received a refund because his equity in the vehicle exceeded what was owed on the loan.  In 2011, his home went into foreclosure.  His mortgage company requested no payments following the  foreclosure.  He  asserts  he  made  payment  on  the  debt  in  SOR  1.a    on November  20  and  December  20,  which  paid  the  debt.    He  received  no correspondence from the creditor indicating the debt was paid, but showed funds were withdrawn from his bank account.  Applicant disputes the $300 debt ,  which  was  for  cable  equipment.  He  had  decided  to  end  his  cable  service  and returned  the  equipment.    The  television  provider  says  the  equipment  was  not received. He also denies the $981  collection account for telephone service.  He asserts this was for equipment that he returned and the creditor asserts was not received.  He has had no contact with the telephone company for two or three years.  Applicant asserted that over the last couple of months he had started climbing out of the financial difficulties incurred following his retirement from the Navy.  He is not receiving any correspondence from creditors regarding delinquent accounts.  He  has  approximately  $30,000  in  his  401  retirement  plan.    He  has  no  car payments.  He has not received any financial counseling.  Applicant was asked to provide copies of his tax returns.  He informed the record  was  being  held  open  to  allow  him  to  supplement  the  record  with  additional documentation of addressing his delinquent obligations.  No documentation was received. 