Applicant’s SOR response admitted the facts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 2.a.   He  also  provided  mitigating  information.  Applicant’s  admissions  are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow. Applicant is a 39-year-old Air Force mission planner employed by a government contractor.  In 1998, he graduated from high school.  In 2018, he received a bachelor of science degree in liberal arts.  He served in the Air Force from 1998 to 2008.  He left active duty as a staff sergeant , and he received an honorable discharge.  His Air Force specialty was cable-antenna technician, and he cross-trained as an airborne cryptologic linguist. He held a top secret clearance with access to sensitive compartmented information  starting in 2006.  He has worked for his current employer since September 2017.  In 1997, Applicant married, and his children are ages 16, 18, and 20.  Removal of Classified Document from a SCI Facility  Applicant received routine training about handling of classified information.   In  2008,  Applicant  attended  training  inside  a  SCIF,  which  involved  his  use  of classified  documents.    He  unintentionally  brought  a  document  classified  at  the secret  level  to  his  home,  and  he  stored  it  in  a  file  box  in  his  garage.   The document was clearly marked as secret. 2 In about March 2011, he  discovered  the  classified  document  in  his  garage.    He  transported  the classified  document  to  an  Air  Force  unit  where  he  was  working,  and  he  shredded  the document.    He  did  not  have  authorization  to  transport  classified  documents outside  of  the  SCIF.    He  did  not  timely  disclose  his  possession  at  home  and subsequent  destruction  of  the  classified  document  because  he  did  not  want  to  get  in 1 Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific information is available in the cited exhibits. 2  In  Applicant’s  April  19,  2016  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions    or  security clearance  application  ,  Applicant  said  the  document  he  erroneously  took  home  was  “protected information” not classified information.  1) At his hearing, he acknowledged that it was a classified document, and he conceded it was possible that he was trying to minimize what he had done in his SCA by not characterizing the document as classified.  No adverse inference is made because of Applicant’s incorrect description of his handling of the classified document in his SCA. 2 trouble.  Several months after he destroyed the classified document, Applicant was  interviewed  before  his  counterintelligence  polygraph  examination.    He disclosed  to  the  polygrapher that  he mishandled  the  classified  document  in  2008, and destroyed  it  in  2011.    He  passed  the  counterintelligence  polygraph examination  in  2011.    His  security  clearance  was  suspended  for  about  three months after his 2011 polygraph due to his mishandling of the classified document.  Polygraph Countermeasures Prior to 2016, Applicant had done some research on methods of manipulating the polygraph-test result.  In 2016, Applicant was scheduled for a routine counterintelligence-polygraph examination.  The polygrapher discussed the test questions and polygraph procedures with Applicant during the pre-polygraph interview.  Applicant was aware that his rate of breathing could affect the polygraph-test results.  Before a polygraph examination, the polygrapher tells the person being tested  to  give  false  answers  to  control  questions  about  mundane  topics  such  as  the number of times the test taker drove in excess of the speed limit or the number of times the  test  taker  caused  a  family  member  to  be  angered.  These  control  questions  are considered “known lies.” The physiological responses, including rate of breathing, to the control  questions  are  compared  to  the  responses  to  the  questions  relevant  to counterintelligence  issues.    To  pass  the  polygraph,  there  should  be more of a physiological response to lying to a control question than telling the truth on a relevant question. During  the  polygraph  examination,  the  polygrapher  accused  Applicant  of attempting to manipulate the polygraph-test results.  Applicant admitted that he was “breathing faster and kind of tricked [himself] into being scared” during the control questions.    He  attempted  to  magnify  or  exaggerate  his  responses  during  the control questions.  He said he believed his physiological responses to the control questions were too low, and he became scared.  He was just trying to ensure he had the “desired response” to enable him to pass the polygraph.  He  admitted  to  the  polygrapher  that  he  was  trying  to  manipulate  the  polygraph  test through fast breathing.  He subsequently told an Office of Personnel Management  investigator that he wanted his answers to the control questions to “light up like a Christmas tree.”  He admitted that he intentionally  attempted to manipulate the polygraph-test results.  Applicant  claimed  that  during  the  polygraph  he  did  not  understand  that  his manipulative efforts could cause an erroneous polygraph-test result.  He believed he was helping the polygrapher receive an accurate test result through his enhancement of his responses to the control questions.  In other words, he did not believe there was  any  reason  to  suspect  himself  of  being  a  counterintelligence  concern,  and  his manipulation  was  designed  to  ensure  the  polygrapher  did  not  erroneously  find  a counterintelligence issue. He understands now that his efforts to “assist” the polygrapher by breathing faster during the control questions did not actually help the polygrapher.  Applicant has not taken a counterintelligence polygraph after the 2016 test was terminated due to his countermeasures.  3 Applicant  said  he  accepted  responsibility  for  his  decisions,  and  if  he  had  an opportunity to make the same decisions that he made in 2011 and 2016 now, he would choose differently and scrupulously comply with security requirements.  He had no fear of providing answers to the counterintelligence questions, and he would timely report security violations.  Character Evidence An Air Force captain and a program manager described Applicant as careful about compliance with security requirements.  Applicant has sound judgment and is  loyal  to  the  United  States.  Applicant  has  an  excellent  reputation  and  contributes  to mission accomplishment. They support continuation of Applicant’s security clearance. 