Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since November of 2016.   As  a  result  of  the  incident  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.a.,  Applicant  “was denied  access  to  classified  information,”  but  it  was  re-granted  in  conjunction  with  his current duty position. . He is divorced, and has no children.  Guideline M - Use of Information Technology & Guideline E - Personal Conduct 1.a.  and  2.a    Applicant,  while  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  intentionally misused his administrative rights access to a U.S. Government administrative computer account to log into his then wife’s personal storage files, on two to three occasions, from about December of 2015 to February of 2016. He suspected that she was engaging in on-line  infidelity.    Applicant  self-reported  this error  in  judgment.    This, coupled with an October 2, 2015, Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol  incident, which  will  be  discussed  under  Paragraph  3,  below,  resulted  in  Applicant  being separated  from  the  Air  Force.    His  former spouse,  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  supports  Applicant’s  security  clearance retention request.  Guideline G - Alcohol Consumption 3.a.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was  cited  in  1999  for  possession  of  alcohol  by  a minor.  2 3.b.  Applicant  admits  that  in  August  of  2005,  he  was  charged  with  a  DUI.  The charges  were  later  dismissed  in  accordance  with  a  plea  bargain,  which  included Applicant’s  agreement  to  join  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  graduate  from  basic  training without further incident.  3.c.,  3.d.,  3.e.  and  3.f.  As  noted  above,  in  October  of  2015,  Applicant  received non-judicial punishment for a second DUI.   As  a  result,  Applicant  attended  3~5  mandatory  out-patient  Alcohol  and  Drug Abuse Prevention and Treatment  counseling/treatment sessions from October to  November  of  2015.  However,  as  the  result  of  a  relapse  in  December  of  2015, Applicant self-referred himself back to ADAPT, where he was diagnosed as an alcohol abuser. He completed this counseling in July of 2016. Applicant last consumed alcohol to the point of intoxication in June of 2019, about two months prior to his hearing.  Applicant  is  well  respected  in  the  work  place  as  evidenced  by  seven  character references.  