In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f through 1.i.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  who  has  been employed as an engineering analyst for his current employer since 2015.2  He has been employed in the aerospace industry for 16 years.  His annual salary is $85,000.  In 2018, he received  several awards from his employer.  In 2018, he received a U.S. patent.   He completed numerous work-related training courses.    In  2000,  he  received  a  General  Education  Diploma,  and  he  has  not attended college.  In 2003, he married, and he has two children ages 6 and 13.  He has not served in the military.  Alcohol Consumption The SOR alleges the following conduct of security significance. SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and Applicant admitted that he consumed alcohol at times in excess  and  to  the  point  of  intoxication  from  about  2000  to  at  least  July  2018.   SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  in about  February  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Battery and Disorderly Conduct, and he was consuming alcohol at the time of his arrest. Applicant and some friends were at a bar drinking alcohol.  Applicant  drank six or seven drinks, and he was intoxicated.  One of Applicant’s friends got into a fight.  The bouncer told Applicant and his friends to leave the bar; a bouncer put his hand on  Applicant’s  chest;  and  Applicant  pushed  the  bouncer’s  hand  away.   1 Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific information is available in the cited exhibits. 2  Unless  stated  otherwise,  the  sources  for  the  information  in  this  paragraph  are  Applicant’s Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions    or  security  clearance  application    and  his resume.  1; AE A) 2 Applicant  and  his  friends  went  to  another  bar  where  the  police  arrested  Applicant  for pushing the bouncer’s hand when they were leaving the bar.  The charge was dismissed.    Applicant  conceded  that  he  showed  poor  judgment.   Applicant was not convicted of any crime for his conduct in about February 2017. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in about January 2015, Applicant was charged with Disturbing the Peace, and he was consuming alcohol around the time of his arrest. Applicant was at a casino, and he drank four or five beers.  He was gambling, and he got into an argument  with  another  gambler.    Security  guards escorted Applicant, his spouse, and another patron from the gambling area. The security guards transferred them to the police.  Applicant posted $1,150 bail, and he was released from jail.  Applicant went to court, and a judge dismissed the charge of Disturbing the Peace because the casino representative did not appear at his hearing.  Applicant’s bail was refunded.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about February 2010, Applicant was charged with Disorderly Conduct and Intoxication. Applicant drank 6 to 10 drinks at home with a friend, and  he and the friend got into an argument.  A neighbor called the police, and Applicant was intoxicated and disrespectful to the police.  The police arrested Applicant for  Disorderly  Conduct  and  Intoxication.    He  pleaded  guilty  to  Disorderly Conduct  and  Intoxication,  and  he  received  30  days  in  jail  ,  a  fine,  and probation before judgment for 18 months.  He successfully completed probation, and he does not have a conviction for this offense.  SOR ¶ 1.e alleges in about October 2008, Applicant was charged with Intoxication and Interfering with Arrest. Applicant and some friends were drinking at a barbecue at Applicant’s residence.  Applicant drank 8 to 10 beers.  A neighbor called the police, and Applicant was disrespectful to the police.  He was found guilty of Interfering with Arrest, and the Intoxication charge was dismissed.  He paid a $300 fine.  SOR ¶ 1.f alleges in about January 2004, Applicant was charged with Assault and Disorderly Conduct, and Applicant consumed alcohol before his arrest. Applicant was at a  party  consuming  alcohol,  and  he  allowed  someone  to  borrow  his  car.    An accident involving Applicant’s vehicle occurred within Applicant’s view, and he went to the location of the accident.  The police arrived, and Applicant was arrested.  Applicant could not remember what he did or why he was arrested.  SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  in  about  December  2003,  Applicant  was  charged  with Intoxication  and  Disorderly  Conduct.  Applicant  drank  8  to  12  beers,  and  he  was intoxicated.  He argued with someone at his house, and the police were called.   Applicant  argued  with  the  police,  and  he  was  arrested  for  Intoxication  and Disorderly Conduct.  He was found guilty of public intoxication, and he received a $430 fine and 18 months of probation.  SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  in  about  July  2002,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Minor  in Possession  of  Alcohol,  Possession  of  Paraphernalia,  and  Interfering  with  a  Public 3 Servant. Applicant was intoxicated, and he engaged in an altercation with the police.  Applicant accidently kicked an officer in the face.  Applicant pleaded guilty to Minor in Possession of Alcohol and Possession of Paraphernalia. 3 The charge of Interfering with a Public Servant was dismissed.  SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  in  about  August  2000,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Minor  in Possession  of  Alcohol.  Applicant  admitted  he  was  arrested  for  and  committed  this offense.  In 2004, Applicant received an alcohol assessment.  He did not receive a diagnosis  of  an  alcohol-use  disorder  or  alcohol  dependence.    There  was  no recommendation that he receive alcohol-related counseling or therapy.  Applicant  has  not  been  inside  of  a  bar  since  2017.    The  only  time  he consumed alcohol after he received the SOR was when he and his spouse split a bottle of wine on December 31, 2018.  