In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations.  He also provided mitigating information.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  who  has  been employed as a calibration technician for his current employer since 2008.2 In 1982, he graduated from high school. He attended three semesters of college, and he completed several certified training courses.  In 1985, he married, and in 2016, he divorced. His children were born in 1991 and 1993. In October 2016, Applicant married his second wife.  There are two step children in his home who are ages 14 and 15.  Applicant and his spouse are trying to adopt a special-needs baby with Downs Syndrome.  He has held a security clearance for about 31 years.  If he loses his security clearance, he will lose his employment.  Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct The SOR alleges the following conduct of security significance. SOR ¶ 1.a alleges in June 1990, Applicant was charged with Operating a Vehicle While Drunk. It was dark and raining, and Applicant hit a car with his motorcycle.  Applicant received minor injuries.  The car left the scene of the accident.  Applicant  refused a  breathalyzer test.   He  received  nonjudicial punishment under  Article  15,  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  and  a  general  discharge  under honorable conditions because of misconduct.  He conceded his blood-alcohol level exceeded the legal limit.  SOR ¶ 2.b alleges in November 2006, Applicant was arrested and charged with Disorderly Conduct-Brawling/Fighting-Domestic Violence. Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 2.b; however, he said the case never went to court because the charges were dismissed.  or security clearance application .  1) 2 70-71; GE 3; SOR response) There is no evidence that this incident was related to his alcohol consumption. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges in March 2009, Applicant was arrested and charged with Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol .  Applicant drank five or six rum and cokes at a bar.  The police stopped Applicant because of a traffic violation.  He kept burping, and the police were unable to conduct a breathalyzer.  The police did not complete the breathalyzer test or attempt to conduct a blood-alcohol test.  He attended Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings twice a week for six months.  He was required to remain sober for one year.  He successfully completed the diversion plan, and the charge was dismissed with prejudice.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in August 2012, Applicant was charged with Disorderly Conduct and  Criminal  Trespass.    Applicant  said  he  drank  about  two  drinks  at  a  party; however, he told the Office of Personnel Management  investigator that he drank five or six drinks and that he was intoxicated.  He left the party, and he followed a 16-year-old girl to her apartment which was located in the same building as the party.  At the time, he said he thought the girl he was following was an adult.  She told him he could not come inside her apartment, and he went to the parking lot where his vehicle was located.  He left the parking lot and he returned to her apartment because he said he needed to obtain directions.  She told him to leave; they argued; and her father evidently called the police.  The  owner of  the  apartment  where  the  party  occurred  was  cited for serving  alcohol to minors.  Applicant conceded that alcohol played a part in his decisions because if  he  had  not  been  drinking  he  would  not  have  needed  directions.    He pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct.  SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  in  June  2013,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUI.    The police  stopped  Applicant for a  traffic violation.   His  blood-alcohol test   result was .187.  Applicant believed he could drive, and he did not think he was “impaired” even though his BAT was .187.  Applicant was found guilty of DUI, and he was on probation for one year.  He received a $1,000 fine,  and  he  was  required  to  remain  sober  during  his  probation.    After completing  probation,  he  reduced  the  number  of  occasions  in  which  he  drove  after drinking alcohol.  He limited his alcohol consumption to one beer when he is going to drive.  SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d as criminal conduct. SOR ¶ 2.c alleges in September 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with Domestic  Battery-Knowing/Reckless  Bodily  Harm.    The  assault  involved Applicant’s first wife.  Applicant had about two drinks of an alcohol beverage.  He was angry, and he pushed and kicked a door, which struck his spouse’s hand.  He claimed he did not see her when he hit her with the door.  She also claimed he threw keys at her and hit her; however, he denied that the keys hit her.  He threatened to sell the house.  The part of the OPM summary of interview and the police report indicating he threatened to kill everyone in his home are incorrect.  The police arrested him, and he was issued a 72-hour 3 restraining  order.   His  spouse  wanted  Applicant  to  come home,  and  the prosecutor dismissed the charges.  Applicant’s current spouse met his first spouse on one occasion at a wedding, and his current spouse described his first spouse as aggressive and violent.  His current spouse observed his first spouse as she assaulted Applicant at a wedding, and his first wife was so out of control that it was “like you see in the cartoons.”  SOR  ¶  2.d  alleges  in  July  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Domestic  Battery- Bodily Harm. Applicant had gone out drinking.  His current spouse took his wallet  and  his  identification  cards  and  credit  cards.    She  threw  his  wallet outside, and she locked him out of the house.  She subsequently returned his  identification  and  credit  cards  to  him.    A  day  or  so  later,  Applicant  and  his spouse were involved in a physical altercation. He said she was the aggressor, and he was only attempting to keep her from driving his truck.  His spouse hit him, and her ring cut his face.  Applicant’s  spouse’s description  of  the  July  2017  altercation  with  Applicant  was consistent  with  Applicant’s  description.  Applicant’s  spouse  said  that  she  and  Applicant argued about his alcohol consumption several days before he was arrested for assault.  She took his wallet.  She was anxious about when he would come home after work.  She said she was “yelling and screaming and lying and saying he’s hurting  me.”    She  said  they  had  a  “scuffle”  because  he  took  her  car  keys  and passport and  because  she had  taken pain medication  and  consumed  alcohol.   Her purse was in his vehicle, and it contained her passport and car keys.  She attributed the altercation to her use of alcohol together with “Prozac and really high doses of steroids.”  She felt angry and aggressive, and she hit him.  He was not aggressive; however, the videotape showed him not letting her in his truck and pulling her away from his truck.  She believed the police arrested Applicant because he is a large person; he was yelling; and a witness made a statement against him.  He did not punch her; however, she had “some scrapes and things.”  She said she  lied  to  the  police  about  the  abuse  because  she  was  angry,  and  the  drugs  were affecting her judgment.  Applicant’s spouse asked the prosecutors not to charge Applicant, nevertheless, they prosecuted him.  He pleaded guilty; and he received a “deferred judgment” probation agreement.  He received fines and court costs totaling $482.  His probation specified that he was not supposed to consume alcohol from February 2018 to February 2019.  He said he had a single relapse; however, he did not report it to his probation officer because he did not consider it to be relevant. 3 His probation officer did not specifically ask him whether he consumed alcohol.   He conceded violating probation was pertinent, but he did not consider it to be crucial.  He received a deferred 3 Applicant’s August 4, 2018 SOR response indicates he has “complied and continues to comply with his probation” requirements.  His SOR response indicates that he “no longer drives while under the influence” of alcohol.  4 sentence, and he remained on probation until February 2019.  On February 28, 2019, the domestic violence offense was dismissed with prejudice.  SOR ¶ 1.e alleges on November 28, 2017, Applicant stated at an OPM interview that he drank alcohol every day, and he drank alcohol to intoxication every other week.  Applicant admitted that he drank three or four beers almost every day, and every other weekend he drank seven or eight beers.  In the past five years, Applicant  drank  enough  alcohol  to  have  blackouts  once  or  twice.   Applicant’s spouse said he reduced his alcohol consumption in 2017.  On  March  30,  2018,  Applicant  received  an  alcohol  use  assessment.4  It  did  not recommend  counseling  or  treatment.    He  reported  his  arrests  in  2006,  2011, 2013, and 2017 to security. He said he drank two to six drinks twice a week. He completed alcohol treatment or counseling in 2006 and 2013. Applicant  said  he  attends  counseling  once  a  week  or  more  often  as  needed, meditation, and Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings as needed.  He most recently attended an AA meeting three weeks before his hearing.  He said he attends AA meetings once or twice a month; however, he did not attend enough AA meetings  to  receive  any  AA  coins.    In  May  2018,  he  completed  a  class  on domestic violence. More recently, Applicant used Uber or public transportation in lieu of driving himself after  he  consumes  alcohol.    Applicant  said  he  decided  to  quit  consuming alcohol in 2017, and he actually stopped drinking “[a]bout that time.”  He subsequently had a couple of relapses.  He said the last time he consumed alcohol was in August 2018. 5 His spouse also stopped consuming alcohol, and they do not have alcohol in their home.  They do not go to bars.  Applicant does not intend to drink alcohol in the future.  Character Evidence In  the  winter  of  2017,  Applicant’s  spouse  had  major  surgery.    After  she married  Applicant,  she  had  a  stroke,  transient  ischemic  attacks  or  TIAs,  an  embolism, broken bones from a fall, a Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus  infection, and  blood  clots.    She  spent  41  days  in  intensive  care.    She  was bedridden for a time.  She said the post-surgery drugs affected her memory.   Applicant  has  been  very  supportive  of  her.    He  attended  marriage counseling and classes.  She supported approval of his security clearance.  4 Unless stated otherwise, the source for the information in this paragraph is an alcohol assessment on March 30, 2018.  5 Applicant’s spouse  did  not pay  attention to the  amount  of beer he drank.   She did not notice  when  he stopped drinking alcohol for several  weeks.  She  was unable to say  whether he stopped drinking alcohol in 2017, 2018, or 2019.  5 Applicant’s 2017 and 2018 performance reviews indicate he exceeds expectations or meets expectations for all categories.  The general sense of the statements of six of Applicant’s coworkers, a family support worker, and friends is that he is  diligent,  reliable,  peaceful,  dedicated,  intelligent,  professional,  and  compliant  with procedural requirements.  