Applicant is 42 years old. He has been married to his wife since 2001, and they have three children. He received a bachelor’s degree in 2000, and he has worked for his current employer as a senior systems engineer since October 2013. He has continuously held a top secret security clearance since 2003.  In  2002,  Applicant  and  his  wife  purchased  a  home  for  $253,500  with  a  30-year mortgage from Bank A. In approximately 2004, the loan was transferred to Bank B, and Applicant continued to make his $2,800 monthly mortgage payments.  In  2005,  Applicant  took  out  a  $70,000  home  equity  line  of  credit    from Bank C to consolidate his debt and make improvements to his house. The payments were approximately $180 a month. In July 2015, Applicant sent a letter to Bank C requesting the  bank produce  the promissory  note  that  he  signed  when  he  opened  the account  to affirm that Bank C still owned the loan. He sent this letter due to information he learned regarding global mortgage fraud. Bank C did not respond to his letter. Applicant made his last payment to Bank C in December 2015, and the account was ultimately charged off by Bank C in the amount of $69,473.  In January 2016, Applicant sent a request for debt validation to Bank B regarding his primary mortgage. During 2016, he made inconsistent mortgage payments and made his last payment toward the debt in late 2016 or early 2017. During his December 2017 interview, Applicant stated that he stopped making payments and wanted verification of the debt, because he never signed a promissory note with Bank B. He believed that his actions were valid based upon information he learned from the news.  He did not consult with  an  attorney  before  he  ceased  making  payments  to  the  mortgage  or  HELOC accounts. Applicant testified that Bank B did not respond to his request for validation. The outstanding  loan  balance  is  nearly  $320,000,  and  the  account  is  almost  $50,000 delinquent.  In  February  2017,  Bank  B  sent  Applicant  notice  of  its  intent  to  foreclose  on  his home.  A  month  later,  Applicant  and  his  wife,  representing  themselves,  filed  a  lawsuit against Bank B, claiming they no longer owed Bank B any money. In April 2018, a stay was  entered  to  prevent  Bank  B  from  foreclosing  on  Applicant’s  home  pending  the outcome of his lawsuit against Bank B.  In  June  of  2018,  the  court  found  in  favor  of  Bank  B  and  dismissed  Applicant’s lawsuit.  That  same month,  Applicant filed for  Chapter 7  bankruptcy  to  prevent  Bank B from  foreclosing  on  his  home.  Shortly  thereafter,  the  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  was dismissed, because it was determined that Applicant had sufficient income and resources to pay his financial obligations. In July 2018, Applicant appealed the court’s dismissal of his lawsuit.  2 Applicant testified that in August 2018, the Chapter 7 bankruptcy was converted into a Chapter 13 bankruptcy to allow him to resolve the mortgage and HELOC debts. He also wanted the trustee to determine if the mortgage and HELOC debts were valid. There was  no  evidence  presented  during  the  hearing  that  Applicant  made  any  bankruptcy payments.  In  October  2018,  the  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  was  dismissed  based  upon Applicant’s request. According to Applicant, the bankruptcy was no longer necessary to protect his interest in his home, because the mortgage debt and HELOC were “paid in full” and he wished to “pursue his claims against” Bank B and Bank C in state court. At the hearing, Applicant reiterated that he paid in full the mortgage debt and HELOC, and this belief is reflected in his personal financial statement.  Applicant testified that his failure to pay his primary mortgage and HELOC is based on a civil dispute, not an inability to pay the mortgages, as he is able to live within his means. If he is found to be legally responsible for the two mortgage debts, he claimed he will  pay  both  debts.  Applicant  continues  to  reside  in  the  home  with  his family,  and  the foreclosure proceedings are stayed, pending the outcome of Applicant’s appeal. Applicant is representing himself in the appeal process.  Despite his multiple claims that the mortgage and HELOC have been paid in full, at the hearing, Applicant admitted that he has not paid $320,000 plus interest to Bank B, nor has he paid $70,000 plus interest to Bank C. His claims that he paid both accounts in full are based upon Bank B and Bank C failing to provide the validation that he requested. Applicant’s  wife  has  been  continuously  employed  throughout  their  dispute  with  the lenders.  Applicant  owes  the Internal  Revenue  Service  approximately  $3,500 for tax  year 2017, and at the time of the hearing he did not have a payment arrangement. Additionally, he owes approximately $1,000 in property taxes for his house.  Applicant works with charity organizations.  His work has been recognized with numerous certificates of appreciation, and he was awarded an employee of the year award from his current employer. He is proud that he has contributed to creating secure network systems for the government.  