In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.  He also provided extenuating and mitigating information. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow. Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  mechanical  engineer  specializing  in  software,  and  a major defense contractor has employed him for the previous seven years.  In 2006, he graduated from high school, and in 2010, he graduated Summa Cum Laude and received a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering.  In 2014, he received a master’s degree in mechanical engineering.  He earned two post-graduate  certifications,  and  has  an  impressive  professional  work  history.   He has not served in the military.  In 2010, he married, and his children are ages 2 and 5.  Applicant provided character-reference statements from 16 colleagues who have worked  with  him  for  several  years.    His  awards, performance  evaluations,  and  character  statements  establish  his integrity, professionalism,  diligence,  responsibility,  trustworthiness,  and  contributions  to  mission accomplishment.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse Applicant did not timely disclose his marijuana use because he did not think about his duty to disclose that information to his security officer.  In Appellant’s October 2, 2017 SCA, he admitted use of marijuana on two occasions on float trips2 in August 2015 and August 2017.  He said he took one “hit” from a marijuana cigarette on both  occasions,  and  he  did  not  enjoy  his  marijuana  use.    Applicant’s  statement during  his  Office  of  Personnel  Management  personal  subject  interview,  in  his  SOR response, and at his hearing were all consistent with his disclosure of marijuana use in his October 2, 2017 SCA.  1 Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific information is available in the cited exhibits. 2 A “float trip” involves canoeing and rafting on a river.  2 Applicant  used  marijuana  because  of  peer  pressure  and  curiosity,  and  he acknowledged his marijuana use showed poor judgment.  He disclosed the only times he used marijuana on his SCA.  He does not associate with users of illegal drugs.  He met with a counselor on two occasions for an evaluation; however, the counselor indicated there was no evidence of drug addiction, and therefore, no counseling was needed.  He has had opportunities to use marijuana after August 2017, and he declined the invitations to use marijuana.  On August 31, 2018, Applicant’s hair was tested for the presence of the marijuana metabolite, and the result was negative, indicating no marijuana use in the previous 90 days.  Applicant  “providing  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. ; see AG  ¶  26.  Applicant  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.    He promised not to compromise national security.  