Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  2.a-2.c,  and  2.e-2.h,  all  with  explanations. He  denied  SOR  ¶  2.d,  also  with  an  explanation.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 47 years old. He and his wife have been married for five years. He has  three  children,  ages  27,  21,  and  16,  from  prior  relationships,  and  a  16-year-old stepson.  Applicant  joined  the  Navy  after  high  school,  and  served  for  20  years,  from 1989  to  2009.  He  retired  as  a  petty  officer  second  class  .  He  held  a  clearance during  his  entire  Navy  career.   B & H to GE 9) After  retiring  from  the  Navy,  Applicant  was  a  full-time  student  at  a  community college for about a year . During that time, he was unemployed. He worked at a computer help desk for two defense contractors in 2010 and 2011. He spent much of  the  next  two  years    working  in  Afghanistan  supporting  U.S.  military forces.  Applicant  returned  from  Afghanistan  in  December  2013,  when  his  employer’s contract ended. He was then unemployed from about January to March 2014. He was briefly  employed  from  March  to  June  2014,  and  was  then  unemployed  again  until October  2014.  Since  then,  he  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  in  the  field  of information technology.  He does not currently hold a clearance.  He earns $45,000 annually, and gets $1,200 a month in retirement pay.  B to GE 9) After he left the Navy, Applicant used marijuana on social occasions with friends about seven times between November 2009 and November 2014. . He used marijuana twice in late 2009, while in school after leaving the Navy;  several  times  between  January  and  May  2014,  and  once  at  a  wedding  in November 2014. He also purchased marijuana on one occasion, in mid-2014.    His  marijuana  use  occurred  after he had  been  granted  a  security clearance.  2 In connection with his employment, Applicant submitted an SCA for a high-level clearance  with  another  government  agency    in  August  2014.    He  did  not disclose  his  marijuana  use  or  the  one-time  marijuana  purchase,  all  of  which  occurred within the previous seven years, the timeframe of the questions at issue.   At  the  same  time,  Applicant  signed  an  acknowledgement  concerning  his understanding of AGA policy that drug use was illegal.  He last used marijuana in November 2014, at a wedding.   Applicant submitted another SCA, in October 2014 for a job with another defense contractor. . He again failed to disclose his usage and purchase of marijuana, in answering questions that called for disclosure of that information. .  SOR ¶ 1.b, which Applicant admitted, alleges that Applicant used marijuana after he had been granted a security clearance. He had a clearance in the Navy, and all of his marijuana use came afterwards. SOR ¶¶ 2.c and 2.g, which Applicant also admitted, concern  his  alleged  failure  to  disclose,  on  both  of  his  SCAs  in  2014,  that  he  used marijuana while possessing a security clearance.  Department  Counsel represented  on  the  record  that the  DOD’s  Joint  Personnel Adjudication System  indicated that Applicant’s clearance was “denied” on June 29,  2015.    .  However,  there  is  no  official documentation in the record, either from JPAS or otherwise, about whether Applicant in fact held a clearance, or was working in a cleared position, when he used marijuana at any time. On December 2, 2014, Applicant had a background interview for the clearance with  the  AGA.  He  initially  denied  any  involvement  with  illegal  drugs.  After  further questioning,  he  admitted  using  marijuana  at  social  gatherings  twice  in  2009   three or four times between January 2014 and May 2014, and once in November 2014. He also disclosed his one-time purchase of marijuana, in March 2014.  Four days later, on December 6, 2014, Applicant had another interview with an AGA  representative.  In  that  interview,  he  disclosed  only  two  uses  of  marijuana:  once each in 2009 and 2014. He denied any further involvement with illegal drugs.  His failure to disclose the full extent of his illegal drug use in the December 6 interview is alleged as SOR ¶ 2.h. As a result of Applicant’s illegal use of marijuana and related false statements on his  August  2014  SCA  and  during  subsequent  background  interviews,  the  AGA  denied Applicant  eligibility  for  access  in  a  June  2015  clearance  decision  statement  . Under  the  drug  involvement  guideline,  the  AGA  applied  the  drug  involvement disqualifying  condition  for  “any  drug  abuse.”  The  AGA’s  decision  did  not  address whether  Applicant’s  drug  use,  either  in  2009  or  2014,  had  occurred  while  he  held  a 3 clearance.  Applicant appealed the denial and had a hearing.  The AGA upheld the denial on appeal in September 2015.  Applicant submitted his most recent SCA in July 2016. He disclosed that he used marijuana about  seven  times  on  social  occasions  between  2009  and  November 2014. He  also  disclosed  his  one-time  purchase  of  marijuana,  in  2014.  He  disclosed  that  his clearance had been revoked in June 2015 for failing to disclose his  drug use. He also disavowed any future drug use because he said he did not want to put his clearance in jeopardy or put his livelihood at risk. He acknowledged that his prior drug use had been a  mistake    He  discussed  his  drug  use  in  background  interviews  in  September 2016 and January 2017.  He testified that his intentions in disclosing his drug use was to be “one hundred percent honest” going forward, and to “come clean about everything.”  Concerning  the  single  drug  purchase,  Applicant  purchased  a  $10  bag  of marijuana  on  one  occasion  in  either  March  2014    or  a  few months later.  He kept the bag of marijuana in his garage. He initially testified  that  he  had  the  bag  “maybe  a  month.”  .  He  also  testified  “once  my clearance got revoked, and I found out what I got revoked for, I got rid of it.”  Once it was pointed out to Applicant at hearing  that his clearance was revoked in late June  2015,  he  admitted  keeping  the  marijuana  in  his  garage  for  about  15  months, instead of only one.  Applicant  said  in  his  September  2016  background  interview  that  he  did  not disclose  his  marijuana  use  on  his  earlier  applications  out  of  fear  that  doing  so  would impact  his  eligibility  for  a  clearance.  He  decided  later  to  admit  to  his  use  since  lying about it was too much of a burden and that he wanted to do the right thing.  In 2013, while working in Afghanistan, Applicant sent an unsolicited personal e- mail  to  a  female  Marine  he  worked  with.  The  e-mail  was  not  well  received,  and  she complained  to  his  supervisor.    In  SOR  ¶  2.d,  the Government  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  on  his  October  2014 SCA that he had been reprimanded or disciplined as a result of this incident.  Appellant denied SOR ¶ 2.d, on the grounds that he had not been given a written reprimand or otherwise disciplined as a result of the e-mail. He acknowledged being told by his supervisor not to contact the woman again, and he complied.    He  denied  being  given  a  reprimand,  written  or  otherwise.  There  is no written reprimand in the record. Applicant disclosed this incident on his most recent SCA, in 2016.  He  said  he  did  so  to  clear  his  conscience,  and  out  of  the  abundance  of  caution.   In 2007, Applicant was a petty officer first class  and a leading petty officer  in charge of about 17 other sailors on his ship.  In applying for chief petty officer ,  Applicant  submitted  documentation  falsely  representing  that  he  had  obtained certain  qualifications  necessary  for  promotion.  On  the  documentation,  he  forged  or falsified his senior chief petty officer’s signature. He submitted the documentation to the 4 very senior chief whose signature he had forged, and she noticed the discrepancy right away.  Applicant  was  charged  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice    with making a false statement. He received non-judicial punishment  and was reduced in rank to E-5. He was allowed to remain in the Navy so he could retire after 20 years.  This incident is not alleged in the SOR. Applicant disclosed his NJP on his July 2016 SCA. He did so despite the fact that it occurred in 2007, and, thus, need not have been disclosed, since it was beyond the seven-year time frame of the employment questions on the form.  In  late  August  2018,  following  a  recommendation  from  his  doctor,  Applicant began  attending  counseling  with  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker  .    He attends counseling and has his medication evaluated every three months.  Applicant  testified  that  he  accepts  full  responsibility  for  his  actions  and  is  very remorseful. His counselor noted this as well.  He sought counseling so as to put things behind him and “get my life back together.”  He accepted full responsibility for his actions and said he has learned his lesson.  In 2015, when he appealed the denial of his clearance application with the AGA, Applicant  submitted  a statement of  intent  not  to use  illegal drugs  in  the future,  and  he consented  to  automatic  revocation  of  his  clearance  should  he  do  so.   Applicant reaffirmed that statement during his testimony.  A former co-worker of Applicant’s testified as a character witness. They worked together  from  October  2017  at  October  2018  and  had  daily  professional  contact.  She attested  to  Applicant’s  honesty  and  integrity.  She  trusts  Applicant  implicitly,  which  she rarely does with others. If she owned her own business, she would hire him.  Two  senior  executives  at  Applicant’s  employer  praised  his  work  ethic  and professional expertise. They regard Applicant as motivated, responsible, and a devoted employee.  They  stated  that  he  has  a  high  degree  of  integrity.  They  are  aware  of Applicant’s  misconduct,  and  noted  that  he  is  remorseful  and  regretful.  They  believe Applicant  made  a  mistake  and  has  faced  up  to  it.  They  recommend  Applicant  for  a clearance.    Applicant’s  security  manager  provided  a  similar  strong endorsement, as did a longtime friend and fellow sailor. 1 