In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  2.a  and  2.b,  and  he either  denied  the  other  SOR  allegations  or  provided  extenuating  and  mitigating information. Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow. Applicant is 45 years old, and a DOD contractor has continuously employed him as  an  audio-visual  technician  for  the  previous  six  years.    In  1992,  he graduated  from  high  school.    He  needs  to  complete  five  classes  to  receive  a bachelor’s degree in information technology.  He has never served in the military.  He has never been married.  His two children are ages 20 and 25.  He has  two  grandchildren.    Applicant  provides  some  financial  assistance  to  his children and grandchildren.  Financial Considerations Applicant’s current annual salary is $55,000.  He has not had any periods of unemployment in the previous 10 years.  He has about $35,000 in his 401 account and about $2,000 in his savings account.  Applicant was unsure about how much discretionary income he had to pay his debts.  Several debts were dropped from his credit report due to the passage of time.  2 The SOR alleges nine delinquent debts totaling $49,152. Their status is as follows: SOR ¶ 1.a alleges a judgment was filed against Applicant in March 2012 for $808. Applicant said the debt was from daycare for his son, and it is at least 12 years old.  At first he said the debt was paid, and then he said it was not paid.  He has not contacted the creditor.  He has not paid the debt because “it just went off [of his] credit report.”  He is unsure of the status of the debt.  SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  a  charged-off  debt  for  $21,036.  The  debt  resulted  from  the voluntary repossession of Applicant’s vehicle.  He purchased the vehicle in 2014 or 2015, and he believed the amount of the debt was the amount of his loan.  He made  payments  for  about  one  year,  and  then  he  decided  “it  wasn’t  worth  it,”  and  he stopped  making  payments.    After  he  received  the  SOR,  he  asked  the  creditor about the debt.  The creditor responded that they would investigate the debt.  He was unable to learn the current holder of the debt and the amount owed.  He has not made any progress resolving this debt.  SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  a  debt  that  is  past  due  in  the  amount  of  $1,009  with  a  total balance of $5,191. Applicant said the debt was current, and he owed one final payment of $340.  He said he would provide proof of payment after his hearing.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges a debt for $4,159 which was placed for collection. Applicant said the debt resulted from an apartment rental.  Applicant was behind on the rent, and he left without paying what he owed.  On December 12, 2018, the creditor offered to settle the debt for $1,247.  Applicant said he was paying $60 monthly to address the debt.  He estimated that he still owed about $700 to pay this debt.  He said he had documentation at home to support payment.  SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  a  charged-off  debt  for  $3,470.  In  the  beginning  of  2017, Applicant  purchased furniture on  credit.    He made  six  or seven  payments,  and then he stopped paying.  He had no idea why he stopped making payments, and he suggested that he “lost track” of the debt.  On December 28, 2018, the creditor wrote that the debt was currently $600, and it had to be paid no later than February 1, 2019, to qualify for the $700 settlement.  Applicant had paid $100 to address the debt.  Applicant said he had a payment arrangement with the creditor, and he was paying $50 a month.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  a  telecommunications  debt  for  $473  which  was  placed  for collection. Applicant said he paid the debt last year.  However, he did not provide proof of payment. SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  a  utilities  debt  for  $189  which  was  placed  for  collection.  On December 14, 2018, Applicant paid this debt.  SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  a  charged-off  debt  for  $13,221.  Around  2000,  Applicant borrowed  funds  to  purchase  a  truck.    Applicant  was  unemployed  for  about  six months in 2003, and he was unable to make payments to address the truck loan.  3 His truck was repossessed.  He did not make any payments after the truck was repossessed, and eventually the debt was dropped from his credit report.  SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  a  telecommunications  debt  for  $605  which  was  placed  for collection. Applicant settled the debt by making a $181 payment.  Applicant’s  SOR  does  not  include  information  about  delinquent  student  loans. Applicant’s credit report states he owes about $89,000 in student loans.  Applicant said his student loan payments were deferred for the previous five years.  He said he planned to return to school, and he was not asked by the creditors for a reason for deferment.  I requested that he provide documentation showing the basis for the deferment of his student loans after his hearing ; however, he did not provide  any  documentation  after  his  hearing  supporting  his  claim  of  deferment  of  his student  loans.  In  ISCR  Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  ,  the  Appeal Board  listed  five  circumstances  in  which  conduct  not  alleged  in  an  SOR  may  be considered stating:   to  assess  an  applicant’s  credibility;    to  evaluate  an  applicant’s evidence  of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  changed  circumstances;    to consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;  to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is applicable;  or    to  provide  evidence  for  whole  person  analysis  under Directive Section 6.3. Id. ; ISCR Case No. 00- 0633 at 3 ). See also ISCR Case No. 12-09719 at 3  ; ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 ). I did not consider the allegations of non-SOR delinquent student loans or improperly deferred student loans for any purpose in this case as the record was not developed sufficiently to determine the status of his student loans. Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  his  representative  indicating  he  was  in  the process of challenging the negative entries on Applicant’s credit report.  His representative  found  numerous  errors  on  Applicant’s  credit  report;  however,  the representative  did  not indicate any  of  the  SOR  debts  were  listed  in  error on  the  credit reports the government provided.  Personal Conduct Applicant’s June 7, 2017 SCA asks whether in the previous seven years, Applicant had  any  judgments  entered  against  him,  any  property  repossessed,  defaulted  on  any loans, debts turned over to a collection agency, accounts charged off, or debts over 120 days delinquent.  Applicant answered, no, to all questions pertaining to negative financial information.  4 SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b allege Applicant had judgments entered against him in March 2012 and January 2014 and the delinquent debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i, and that he failed to disclose them on his June 7, 2017 SCA. In his SOR response, Applicant admitted these  two  SOR  allegations.    He  understood  the  question  and  he  knew  he  had reportable  negative  financial  information.    He  did  not  have  a  credible explanation for why he did not disclose his delinquent debts.  