Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.h and 2.a – 2.b, with explanations. He denied the  remaining  allegations.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  42  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  since December  2015.  Before  his  current  position  he  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  retiring after 20 years of honorable service. He holds a master’s degree. He is divorced and has custody  of  his  two  children.  He  was  married  from  2009  to  2016.  All  the  allegations  of domestic violence involved Applicant and his former spouse .  The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  was  charged  with  domestic  violence  or harassment in March 2001, September 2001, January 2004, May 2004, May 2013, November 2013, and  April  2014  .  It  also  alleged  that  since  2010,  police  were called to Applicant’s home based upon reports of domestic disturbances on at least 25 occasions  .  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  in  June  2014,  Applicant  was demoted and received a letter of reprimand from his Air Force command as a result of the November 2013 domestic disturbance incident . It also alleged Applicant locked  FS  out  his  house  in  May  2018.  When  the  police  were  called,  they  informed Applicant  that  she  was  considered  a  resident  and  must  be  allowed  access  to  the property  .  The  SOR  also  alleged  Applicant  falsified  his  November  2016 security  clearance  application    by  failing  to  list  the  criminal  offenses  he  was charged  with  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  –  1.h  .  His  use  of  alcohol  was  alleged  as  a factor in the criminal and domestic abuse incidents listed in SOR  ¶¶ 1.a – 1.h . Applicant admitted that his volatile relationship with FS goes back to before they were married. He further admitted that they both were at fault for letting their domestic disagreements  foment  into  larger  issues  which  required  law  enforcement  involvement. He admitted engaging in arguments and breaking FS’s cell phone, but he denied ever physically hitting or striking her.  Records establish that Applicant was criminally charged on the following occasions: 2 March 2001—charged with harassment—pleaded guilty—sentenced to deferred  sentence—ordered  to  attend  domestic  violence  counseling. ; September  2001—charged  with  harassment—dismissed—charged with  violating to probation  for  24  months  and  required  to  attend  domestic  violence counselling for 36 sessions. ; restraining  order—pleaded  guilty—sentenced January  2004—charged  with  obstructing  telephone  service,  false imprisonment, harassment—all charges dismissed. ; May  2004—charged  with  harassment—charge  dismissed.  ; May  2013—charged  with  criminal  mischief  —pleaded  guilty—sentenced to  supervised  probation  and domestic violence counseling. ; November  2013—charged  with  violation  of  protective  order;  child abuse;  criminal  mischief;  resisting  arrest;  harassment—all  charges dismissed. ; April  2014—charged  with  assault;  harassment;  and  violation  of protective order—all charges dismissed. . the local  police  department Between January 2010 and May 2018, approximately 37 phone calls were made to from  Applicant’s  residence  claiming  domestic disturbances between Applicant, FS , and his daughters. These  incidents  are  reflected  in  approximately  100  pages  worth  of  transcripts.  A  May 2018 incident involved Applicant locking FS out of his house even though he gave her permission to stay in the house. Police told Applicant he had to let her into the house or pursue  eviction  proceedings.  Applicant  and  FS  divorced  in  January  2016.  He  allowed FS  to  resume  living  in  his  house  in  September  2017  and  she  remains  residing  there.  Applicant admitted that alcohol was involved when he was arrested in November 2013. Applicant claims he was evaluated by the Air Force about any alcohol issues after this  incident,  but  no  treatment  recommendation  was  made.  The  record  contains  no documentation of any alcohol treatment evaluation or counseling for Applicant.  Several of  the  domestic  disturbance  phone  calls  from  Applicant’s  residence  to  the  police referenced Applicant using alcohol. Applicant denied that  his alcohol use led to any of the reported incidents.  3 The demotion action against the Applicant by the Air Force in April-July 2014 was a consequence of Applicant’s arrest in November 2013 , not an independent incident. I find in favor of Applicant regarding SOR ¶ 2.a.  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application    in  November  2016. In  answering  Section  22-Police  Record,  Applicant  responded  in  the  affirmative  when he  was  asked about  arrests  by  law  enforcement  within  the  past  seven  years. He  then listed  arrests  in  November  2013  and  April  2014.  The  SOR  incorrectly  stated  that  he answered  “no”  to  the  above  question.  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  any  omissions while  completing  his  SCA  were  unintentional.  Department  Counsel  conceded  this allegation  at  the  hearing.  I  find  in favor of Applicant  regarding  SOR  ¶  2.d.   