Applicant is 58 years old and single. She is a high school graduate and has worked for  her  current  employer  since  2012.  She  has  never  held  a  security  clearance.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  she  has  failed  to  meet  her  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant  admitted  both  SOR  allegations  ,  with  attachments  and explanations. 1.a. Applicant admitted that she had not filed her Federal tax returns in a timely manner for tax years 2010 through 2017. 1.b.  Applicant  admitted  that  she  had  not  filed  her  state  tax  returns  in  a  timely manner for at least tax years 2010 through 2017. In Section 26 of Applicant’s e-QIP  she admitted that she had not filed Federal or state taxes for tax years 2010 through 2016. Asked for the reason she  stated,  “The  normal  withholding/tax  credits  from  previous  years  would  adequately satisfy the taxes owed,” and, “I have always insured that the normal withholding would adequately satisfy the taxes owed.” 2 Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  on May 9, 2018. During that interview Applicant was asked about her failure to file Federal or state tax returns from 2010 to 2016. The report stated: The subject [Applicant] has not filed for her federal or state taxes since 2010 out of stupidity and feels embarrassed by it. The subject also hasn’t filed because  she  believes  she  has  gotten  a  refund  each  year  and  figured  it would all balance out. Regardless, the subject intends on filing within the next  few  months  and  settling  anything  she  might  owe  to  include  [any] penalty or fine. In the meantime, the subject has been gathering paperwork to  prepare  and  has  also  contacted  the  IRS  to  request  her  transcripts  for each year.  Interrogatories  were  propounded  to  Applicant  by  DOHA  on  August  3,  2018. Applicant  responded  to  them  on  December  18,  2018.  Her  response  included  IRS transcripts from the tax years 2010 to 2017. The transcripts for tax years 2010 and 2013 through 2017 state, “Requested data not found.”  The transcripts for tax years 2011 and 2012  do  not  show  any  information  as  to  Applicant’s  income,  or  tax  information.  In December 2012 Applicant was sent an inquiry by the IRS as to why she had not filed her 2011  tax  return.  She  wrote  in  her  Answer,  “State  .  .  .    did  not  provide  any  data  since returns were not filed and money was not owed.”  In her Answer and at the hearing, Applicant argued that she did not have to file a tax return because she was owed a refund. In her Answer Applicant set out for each tax year what she purported to be her income, the standard deduction, her taxable income, the tax withheld, and any proposed refund she was owed. She did this for both the Federal income taxes and her state income taxes. Applicant was unemployed in 2011 and 2012 and did not have any income information for those years. She stated that she wanted to have complete information for all tax years before filing her tax returns. Applicant did not provide pay stubs, W-2 forms or other documentation to support her statements as to her Federal or state income taxes.  In  addition,  Applicant  relied  on  a  statement  from  the  IRS  website,  “There’s  no penalty  for failure  to  file  if  you’re  due  a  refund.”  . However, Applicant was reminded that the law states all persons whose income is above the standard deduction must file a tax return. .  When pressed, Applicant admitted that her conduct did not show good judgment. She admitted to feeling “stuck,” and unable to move forward in filing her tax returns.  3 