Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.    She has been employed with the defense contractor since June of 2016. She has two adult children who live with Applicant, and a 16-year-old daughter.   Applicant  was  unemployed  for  only  one  month  in  2000.  She filed for the protection of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy two months after the issuance of the SOR.  Her debts have not yet been discharged. Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits that she owes about $11,694 to Creditor A, as the result of an automobile repossession.   Apart from the post-SOR  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition,  Applicant  has  done  little  to  address  this  19- year-old past-due debt. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant admits that she owes about $10,134 to Creditor B, as the result of a  second  automobile  repossession.    Apart from  the  post-SOR  Chapter 7  bankruptcy  petition,  Applicant  has  done  little  to  address this 15-year-old past-due debt. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c. Applicant admits that she owes about $1,299 to Creditor C, as the result of a third automobile repossession.  Apart from the post-SOR  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition,  Applicant  has  done  little  to  address  this  15- year-old past-due debt. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits that she owes about $493 to Creditor D, and claims to have made  some  payments;  but  apart  from  the  post-SOR  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition, Applicant has done little to address this past-due debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.e. Applicant admits that she owed about $328 to Creditor E; and avers she has paid this debt, which her supported by a most recent, post-hearing credit report.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.f. Applicant admits that she owes about $414 to Creditor F; but apart from the post-SOR Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition, Applicant has done little to address this past- due  debt.    This  allegation  is  found  against Applicant. 2 1.g. Applicant admits that she owed about $173 to Creditor G; and avers she has paid  this  19-year-old  debt,  which  his  supported  by  a  most  recent,  post-hearing  credit report.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.h.  Applicant  admits  that  she  owes  about  $1,555  to  Creditor  H;  but  apart from the  post-SOR  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition,  Applicant  has  done  little  to  address  this past-due debt.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 