Applicant is a 55-year old AF security officer for a defense contractor who seeks a security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  married  in  September  1988  and  divorced  in  June  1992.    He remarried in September 1998 and divorced in April 2007. He has no children from either of his two marriages. Applicant has co-habited with another person since July 2012.   Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  June  1983.    He  attended  an  art institute  for  three  months  in  2010    but  earned  no degree  or  diploma.  .  Applicant  did  not  report  any  military  service.  Since September 2016, Applicant has worked for his current employer.  Previously, he worked  for  other  employers  as  a  security  officer.    He  reported  being  granted  a security clearance in June 1983,   Applicant’s finances Between  2009 and  2018, Applicant accumulated a number of delinquent debts . His listed debts in the SOR are comprised of the following: SOR ¶¶  1.a  ; 1.b ; 1.c ; 1.d ; 1.e ;  1.g  ; and 1.h  .  Three  of these debts   are covered by garnishment orders that have not been completed. To  date,  these  debts  continue  to  appear  on  Applicant’s  credit  reports  as  unpaid and unresolved.   Applicant acknowledged these unpaid debts in his answers to interrogatories propounded  to him  in 2019.  In a personal financial statement submitted in January 2019, he listed monthly net income of $5,491, monthly expenses of $2,556,  and  monthly  debt  payments  of  $385.    He  listed  a  monthly  remainder deficit of $6.  In  August  2018,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  of  the  Office  of Personnel  Management  .  In  this  personal  subject  interview  ,  Applicant acknowledged  four  of  the  listed  delinquent  debts  and  pledged  to  sit  down  with  his  wife who pays the bills and develop payment plans for the debts he can identify as his debts.  Additionally,  Applicant  accumulated  delinquent  debts  prior  to  July  2010  totaling more  than  $57,284  that  he  successfully  discharged  in  bankruptcy  in  October  2010  in connection with a petition he filed in July 2010.  None of the listed SOR debts scheduled  in  his  bankruptcy  petition  were  discharged  by  his  bankruptcy  petition  and continue to be debts that are unresolved and still outstanding. Applicant attributed his debt delinquencies to budgeting problems he encountered following his separation and divorce from his second wife in 2007.  He claims that two of the listed debts cover the same private school account and represent duplicates.   His  credit  reports  list  two  separate  student  loan  identification  numbers  and different  dates  of  origination  for  the  two  student  loan  debts  covered  by  SOR  ¶¶  1.-1-d. Applicant’s disputed student loan debts cannot be reconciled as duplicates without more evidence  from  Applicant.    Applicant  did  not  provide  any  evidence  of  current budgeting and counseling. Nor did he provide any evidence of concrete payment plans to address his unresolved debts. E-QIP omissions Asked  to  complete  and  e-QIP  in  September  2016,  Applicant  omitted  all  of  his delinquent  accounts  when  responding to  questions  about  his  finances  in Section  26  of his e-QIP.  Additionally, he omitted his filing of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition in Jul2010.  He attributed his delinquent debt omissions to his mistaken understanding that the listed debts were over 120 days delinquent.  Applicant  attributed  his  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  omission  to  his  claimed  belief  in 2016  that  because  his  bankruptcy  petition  was  filed  and  finalized  over  six years  ago  it did not need to be listed on his 2016 e-QIP.  Applicant’s explanations for his e- QIP omissions are not sufficiently developed to credit him with mistaken understandings of  what  was  required  to  be  listed  in  e-QIP.  Candor  lapses  are  inferred  with  regards  to Applicant’s e-QIP omissions. 