Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  of  the  SOR.  However,  the  Government withdrew  ¶¶  1.j.,  and  1.1.k.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with the defense contractor for 15 months.   He  is  married,  and  has  two  children.    He  attributes  his  current  financial difficulties to periods of unemployment and underemployment.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor A in the amount of about $7,118.   Despite  having  a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b. Applicant has submitted documentation showing that he has “paid in full” the $315  alleged  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  B.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c. Applicant avers he has now paid a past-due debt to Creditor C in the amount of about $140.  Despite having a month to do so,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  This  allegation  is  found against Applicant. 1.d.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  D for  car  loans  in  the  amount  of about $24,428.  Despite having a month to do so,  Applicant  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  This  allegation  is  found against Applicant. 1.e. Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor D in the amount of about $2,296.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.f.  Applicant  has  submitted  documentation  showing  that  he  has  a  settlement agreement with Creditor F to pay $521 to settle this alleged past-due debt.   However,  as  Applicant  has submitted nothing further in this regard, this allegation is found against Applicant. 2 1.g. Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor G in the amount of about $1,245.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.h.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  H  in  the  amount  of  about  $501.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.i.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  I  in  the  amount  of  about  $1,245.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.j. and 1.k. These allegations have been withdrawn by the Government.  1.l.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  L  in  the  amount  of  about  $1,946.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.m  and  1.n.  Applicant  has  past-due  debts  to  Creditor  M  totaling  about  $3,303.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  These  allegations  are  found  against Applicant. 1.o. Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor O in the amount of about $1,271.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.p.  Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor P in the amount of about $1,043.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.q.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  Q  in  the  amount  of  about  $159.  Despite having a month to do so, Applicant has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 