Applicant,  age  26,  has  cohabited  with  her  fiancé  since  November  2013.  She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016. She has been employed by a defense contractor as an  assistant  scientist  since  August  2018.  This  is  her  first  application  for  a  security clearance. Applicant used marijuana daily from December 2012 through August 2018.  She either smoked it or consumed marijuana concentrates in her home. She described her use  as  both  “medicinal  ”  and  “recreational.”  She  maintained  that marijuana  helped  her  with  “sleep,  appetite,  and  various  pains  such  as  headaches, stomach aches, and muscle pains.”  Applicant understands that marijuana use is not compatible with holding a security clearance. However, her intent regarding future marijuana use changed during the course of  the  security-clearance  investigations  process.  In  her  September  2018  SCA,  she answered “Yes” to whether she intended to use marijuana in the future and explained: “When I no longer have a job that requires a security clearance or a job that is involved in  public  safety,  and  if  I  move  to  a  legalized  recreational  state,  I  will  probably  resume usage.”  She  reiterated  that  response  during  her  November  2018  security-clearance interview . However, in her April 2019 response to Government-issued interrogatories , she “emphatically” asserted that she no longer intended to use marijuana in the future due to the “many improvements” she experienced in her “quality of life” during the seven months that she had then abstained from marijuana. She reported 2 “improved memory and concentration, improved coordination, more motivation, and more willing [sic] to take on responsibility [sic] at work and in the home.” She stated that she was “committed to taking any type of drug screening as often as needed.” The record did not specify any drug-screening results.  Applicant primarily obtained the marijuana that she used from her fiancé , who bought it from his friends. Once she stopped using marijuana, her fiancé continued to use marijuana, but agreed to cease using it in their home or in her presence. In December 2018, her fiancé obtained a prescription for medical marijuana use and a state-issued medical marijuana use registry identification card. Before that, his marijuana use was not prescribed.  Applicant was required to list three people “who know [her] well” on her SCA. She described one such individual as a friend and former work associate . During her November 2018 SI, Applicant revealed that she sold her fiancé’s marijuana concentrate to Friend three to five times in 2017. On these occasions, she gave her fiancé the money she received from Friend, who then gave it to a third party. She agreed to sell to Friend because he was “a friend who would provide her marijuana,” and was unable to acquire any  on  his  own  at  the  time.  She  acknowledged  only  one  occasion  in  2017  when  she bought marijuana from Friend. Applicant does not intend to either buy or sell marijuana in the future.  Applicant  identified  two  of  her  fiancé’s  friends  with  whom  she  had  previously smoked marijuana. She did not specify whether these were the same friends from whom her  fiancé  bought  marijuana.  As  of  November  2018,  she  had  stopped  socializing  “in person” with them while they were using marijuana, but continued socializing “online” with them for the purpose of playing video games. In April 2019, she maintained that she had “cut all forms of contact/not met up with” them or Friend, except for an exchange she had with Friend about a job opportunity. That exchange did not take place in person.  