Applicant, age 36, is a Kenyan citizen by birth. She entered the United States in 2003. She was married to a U.S. citizen in 2004 and became a U.S. citizen in 2014. She has no children. She filed for divorce in 2017, the status of which was not specified in the  record.  She earned  an  associate  degree  in 2010 and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2014 from  U.S.  institutions.  Applicant  has  been  employed  as  a  design  engineer  by  a  U.S. defense contractor since 2015. This is her first application for a DOD security clearance. Guideline B Applicant’s  mother    and  father    are  Kenyan  citizens  and residents  .  They  reside  in  Nairobi,  the  capital  and  largest  city  of Kenya.  Her  father  is  a  retired  journalist  with  former  affiliations  with  the  Kenyan parliament  and  magistrate  courts.  Her  mother  runs  a  non-government  organization .  Without  specifying  which  entities  fund  the  NGO,  Applicant  claimed  that  her mother  is  not  affiliated  with  any  foreign  government.  She  communicates  with  each  of her parents weekly.  Applicant has four siblings. Sister 1  and Brother 1  are Kenyan citizens and residents . They also reside in Nairobi. Sister 2  and Brother 2  are Kenyan citizens residing in the United States. Sister 1 is a  legal  counsel  in  the  office  of  the  Attorney  General  of  Kenya.  Her  other  siblings  are students. She communicates with Sister 1 and Brother 1 monthly.  2 Applicant  has  close  and  continuing  contact  with  three  friends  who  are  Kenyan citizens  and  residents.  .  The  record  did  not  specify  in  which  city  these friends reside. Friend 1 is employed as a manager by a British multinational investment bank and financial services company. Friend 2 is a member of the clergy at a church in Nairobi. Neither Friend 3’s employment status nor job title was specified in the record. She communicates with her friends monthly.  Applicant travelled to visit family and friends in Kenya in 2011, 2012, and 2017. She  reported  “in  person”  communications  with  her  parents,  Sister  1,  Brother  1,  and Friend 1 but did not specify whether they occurred outside of Kenya. Her one in-person visit with Friend 3 occurred in the United States in 2016.  Applicant has owned a home in the United States since 2010. She is now renting a home in another state, while Sister 2 and Brother 2 reside there.  The record did not specify what, if  any, equity Applicant has in the home, or  whether she owns  any other U.S. assets. She co-owns with her mother a dormant bank account, with a $0 balance, in Kenya. She does not maintain any other foreign financial interests.  Applicant sent approximately $500 per month to her mother over an unspecified number  of  years  for  her  financial  support  and  to  assist  in  paying  school  fees  for  her siblings.  As  of  2017,  she  sent  a  total  amount  of  approximately  $10,000.  It  was unspecified  in  the  record  whether,  in  what  amount,  and  for  how  long  she  intended  to continue sending money to her mother.  Guideline F Applicant  has  nine  unresolved  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $32,010 .  She  denied all  but  one of  them  in  her  SOR  answer, without explanation.  Applicant  claimed  that  her one admitted debt   would  be settled by April 2019, without providing any documentary proof. While one debt  showed a $0 balance on her January 2019 credit report, it was not reported therein as paid.  Applicant stated, without further explanation, that she fell behind on payments to certain  creditors  during  an  unspecified  period  due  to  being  “overwhelmed  with  debt.” She  also  stated  that  during  her last two  years of  college,  she fell  behind  on her home mortgage payment and it went into collections. That mortgage is now in good standing and  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  In  November  2018,  Applicant  described  her  overall financial situation as “okay” and averred that she was meeting her financial obligations on time “for the most part.”  3 Administrative Notice  I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  U.S.  Government’s  pronouncements concerning Kenya, as outlined in its Request for Administrative Notice  and the documents appended thereto, including the following:   Kenya  is  a  republic  with  three  branches  of  government:  an executive  branch,  led  by  a  directly  elected  president;  a  bicameral parliament  consisting  of  the  Senate  and  the  National  Assembly; and a judiciary.    There  is  considerable  risk  from  terrorism  in  Nairobi.  Terrorism remains a high priority concern. The U.S. government continues to receive  information  regarding  potential  terrorist  threats  aimed  at U.S.,  Western,  and  Kenyan  interests  in  the  Nairobi  area,  counties bordering  Somalia,  and  in  the  coastal  areas  including  Mombasa and Malindi.    Kenya  is  a  strong  U.S.  partner  in  counterterrorism  investigation, prosecution,  and  incident  response,  and  continued  to  play  an important  role  in  regional  counterterrorism  cooperation.  Reports  of human  rights  violations  by  security  forces  during  counterterrorism operations  continued, including  allegations  of  extra-judicial killings, disappearances,  and  torture.  Coordination  among  the  Kenyan governmental  agencies  with  counterterrorism functions  was uneven,  with  improved  information  sharing  in  some  cases  and failure  to  appropriately  pass  threat  information  in  others.  Overall, resource  constraints,  insufficient  training,  corruption,  and  unclear command  and  control  hindered  effectiveness.   in   Despite  public  progress fighting  corruption, the  Kenyan government  does  not  implement  relevant  laws  effectively,  and officials  frequently  engaged  in  alleged  corrupt  practices  with impunity. Bribery is the most commonly reported type of corruption. Police  corruption  remains  a  significant  problem.     Human rights issues with the Kenyan government include: unlawful and  politically  motivated  killings;  forced  disappearances;  torture; harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  arbitrary  arrest  and detention;  an  inefficient  judiciary;  arbitrary  infringement  of  citizens’ privacy  rights;  censorship;  lack  of  accountability  in  many  cases involving  violence  against  women,  including  rape  and  female genital  mutilation/cutting;  and  criminalization  of  same-sex  sexual conduct.  4 I  sua  sponte  admitted  to  the  record,  as  HE  I,  the  following  updated  source document  cited  in  Item  4:  Item  III,  updated  March  14,  2019.  The  updated  website address  is  https://www.osac.gov/Country/Kenya/Content/Detail/Report/03c822af-2922- 4a4c-ba8b-15f4aead1599 .  I  also  sua  sponte  amended  page  5  of  Item  4  to  correct  a typographical  error  in  the  list  of  source  documents,  thereby  changing  the  date  from March 29, 2018 to April 9, 2019. Because these sua sponte actions did not affect either the  relative  positions  of  the  parties  or  my  decision,  prior  notice  to  the  parties  was  not required. 