Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR with explanations. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the  following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has only recently been employed by a defense contractor.  He served in the U.S. Navy “from 2003 through 2011.” .  He  is  married,  and  has  two  children.    He attributes his current financial difficulties to a failed business.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  Creditor  A,  a  landlord,  in  the  amount  of  about $10,101. He is addressing this debt through a debt consolidation service; and as such, this  allegation  is  found  for  Applicant.   1.b.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  Creditor  B,  for  a  business  loan,  in  the  amount  of about  $10,026.    He  has  offered  nothing further in this regard; and as such, this allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c. Applicant is indebted to Creditor C, for an auto loan, in the amount of about $7,970.  He has offered nothing further in this regard; and as such, this allegation is also found against Applicant. 1.d.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  Creditor  D,  a  credit  union,  in  the  amount  of  about $5,508.  He  is addressing  this debt  through  a  debt  consolidation  service;  and  as  such, this allegation is also found for Applicant.  1.e. Applicant is indebted to Creditor E, a bank, in the amount of about $4,794. He  is  addressing  this  debt  through  a  debt  consolidation  service;  and  as  such,  this allegation  is  also  found  for  Applicant.   1.f.  Applicant  is  also  indebted  to  Creditor  D,  the  same  credit  union  as  noted  in 1.d., above, in the amount of about $2,892. He is addressing this debt through a debt consolidation  service;  and  as  such,  this  allegation  is  also  found  for  Applicant.   2 1.g. 1.e. Applicant is indebted to Creditor G, a cable company, in the amount of about $215. He has paid this debt as evidenced by correspondence from this creditor; and as such, this allegation is found for Applicant.  Applicant  is  well  respected  both  by  a  former  military  member,  and  by  a  work colleague.  