In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  except  SOR  ¶  1.j, which he denied. His admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a review of the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He began working at his present job in May 2016. He is a senior consultant. He deployed as a contractor to Afghanistan on two six month rotations in 2009-2010. He has a high school diploma. He  married  in  2013,  has  two  children from his marriage, and  two  step-children.   The SOR alleged a dismissed Chapter 13 bankruptcy in 2018, a delinquent state tax debt of $739 for tax  year 2013, a judgment in the amount of $3,171 filed in March 2016,  and  seven  charged-off  or  past-due  debts   totaling  approximately  $46,411.  The  debts  are  established  by  credit  reports  from to October  2016,  January  2019,  and  September  2019;  Applicant’s  answers interrogatories; a court record; a state tax record; and his SOR admissions. .  Applicant explained that his financial distress began when he decided to change jobs and move to a different state in 2014. The job he took paid about $40,000 less than the  job  he  left.  Applicant  also  admitted  that  he  borrowed  approximately  $47,000  in personal loans to pay for his wedding in 2013. He defaulted on those loans after about six months, which were then charged off by the lender, and Applicant received an IRS Form 1099-C, cancellation of debt designation. Applicant claimed that he included these cancelled debts on his 2018 federal tax return and paid the associated tax. He did not provide  documentation  of  his  tax  return  to  corroborate  this  assertion.  .  Applicant  stated  that  he  terminated  the  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  filed  in  January 2018  after  talking  with  family  members  and  deciding  that  was  not  his  best  solution.  In March 2019, a month before the issuance of his SOR, Applicant entered into a payment plan  with a debt relief company . Under the terms of the Plan, Applicant is to  pay  $693  monthly    and  the DRC  will  negotiate  settlements  with  the  creditors  included  in  the  plan.  Documentation shows  that  six  creditors  are  in  the  Plan,  including  five  listed  in  the  SOR  .  One  non-SOR  creditor  is  also  in  the  Plan.  Applicant  provided 2 documentation showing that he made his monthly payments to the DRC for August and September  2019.  Although  a  “Dedicated  Account  Agreement”  under  the  Plan  is documented,  which  shows  Applicant’s  authorization  to  debit  his  bank  account  for payment  in  March  2019,  there  is no  documentation of any  payments  to  the  DRC from March through July 2019.  The status of the SOR debts is as follows: State  tax  debt  .  Applicant  provided  documentation  from  the  state taxing authority showing that he has a zero balance related to his personal state income tax account as of September 2019. This debt is resolved.  Judgment . Applicant testified that this judgment was included in the Plan.  His  documentation  does  not  support  this  assertion.  There  is  no  other  evidence showing payment of this judgment.  Credit card debt . Documentation supports that this debt is included in the Plan, a settlement in the amount of approximately $14,000 was reached with the creditor,  and  two  payments  of  $631  were  made  towards  the  settlement  amount  in September 2019.  Credit card debt . Documentation supports that this debt is included in the Plan. No settlement has been reached and no payments have been made to this creditor.  Credit  card  debt  .  Documentation  supports  that  Applicant  entered into  a  separate  payment  plan  with  this  creditor.  Applicant  stated  that  this  creditor  was unwilling to enter into a formal written settlement agreement, but agreed to take monthly payments from him. Applicant made his first payment of $200 in October 2019.  Credit card debt . Documentation supports that this debt is included in the Plan. No settlement has been reached and no payments have been made to this creditor.  Credit  card  debts  .  Documentation  supports  that  these debts are included in the Plan. No settlement has been reached and no payments have been made to this creditor.  Credit  card  debt  .  Applicant  denied  this  debt  in  his  answer  to  the SOR,  but  he testified  that  this debt  was  included  in  the  Plan.  His documentation  does not support this assertion. There is no other evidence showing payment of this debt.  Applicant produced a budget as part of his application to the DRC. His monthly residual  after  all  expenses    is  $2.  A 3 separate personal financial statement prepared in March 2019 shows his residual after all  expenses  and  payments    as  $159.  Other  than  hiring  the DRC, Applicant has not received any financial counseling.  