Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  with  explanations  .  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 44 years old. She has worked for a government contractor since July 2005. From 2007 to 2013 she also worked part-time in sales for a retail business. She received  her bachelor’s  degree  in 1998.  She  is  single,  has never married,  and has no children.  The SOR alleged 15 delinquent debts totaling approximately $25,000. The debts are  comprised  of  charged-off  and  collections  accounts  .  The  debts  are  supported  by  credit  reports  from  December  2016  and  March 2019,  her  statement  to  an  investigator  in  April  2018,  and  her  SOR  admissions  in  her answer.  Applicant attributes her financial problems to losing her part-time job in 2013 and the  loss  of  her  fiancé,  with  whom  she  shared  expenses  and  financial  obligations.  No further  information  is  contained  in  the  record  concerning  her  fiancée.  Applicant documented  that  she  entered  into  a  debt  relief  plan    in  April  2018.  Under  the terms  of  the  DRP,  all  the  SOR  debts  were  included  in  the  plan.  Applicant  was  to  pay $378  monthly    for  48  months  beginning  in  May 2018. Applicant failed to produce  documentation that any  payments  were  made  to the DRP or that the DRP made any payments to the listed creditors. Applicant included two emails  from  the  debt  relief  company  to  Applicant  ,  which  both  listed  payment  schedules,  but  neither  documented  any  previous payments  made.  She  did  not  provide  any  information  about  her  current  financial circumstances.  Aside  from  entering  into  the  DRP,  Applicant  provided  no  evidence  of financial  counseling.  She  presented  no  evidence  of  taking  other  action  to  pay  or otherwise  resolve  the  SOR  debts.  Applicant’s  debts  remain  unresolved.  , Item 5). 