Applicant admitted the SOR allegations , each with a brief explanation. His  admissions  and  explanations  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 35 years old. He and his wife married in 2017, after being together for many years. He has six children, ages 17, 16, 13, 12, 9, and 4. Three of his children live with Applicant and his wife, including a son Applicant fathered with someone else.  They live together in Applicant’s mother’s home.  Applicant has been required to pay child support of some kind since about 2007. He has been in arrears for some time, and testified that he is unsure of what he owes. He said child support has come out of his pay regularly for the last five years. He was out of work for about eight months due to an injury.  Applicant has worked as a security officer for a variety of employers in the defense industry since 2007, at times working multiple jobs.  For a period of time in 2011 and 2012, he was living in another state, caring for his grandmother, and working odd jobs. This was one of the years for which he failed to file tax returns.  Applicant  is  employed  as  a  diplomatic  security  officer  for  a  State  Department contractor. He currently holds a clearance.  He said he earns about $2,500 a month, after taxes and child support.  However, he said at hearing that he is not  currently  working,  because  he  did  not  pass  a  required  proficiency  test.  He  cannot return  to  work  at  the  State  Department  until  he  passes  the  test,  though  he  remains sponsored for a clearance and available for other possible assignments. This is his only job, so he is not currently earning any income.  Applicant testified that he has 2 no savings account and has very little money in his checking.  Applicant said his wife  works  in  information  technology  and  is  a  cleared  government  contractor.  He estimated her annual salary at about $110,000-$115,000.  Applicant disclosed some delinquent debts on his SCA, in 2017, including some private  debts  and  his  child  support.  He  also  noted  that  he  was  working  with  a  credit counselor or debt consolidator.  He did not disclose any tax issues.  Applicant failed to file his state and Federal income tax returns on time, as required, for tax years  2013-2018.    DOHA sent  him  interrogatories in January 2019,  concerning  his  interview  summary  and  his  taxes.    At  the  time,  the information  he  provided  showed  that  he  had  unfiled  tax  returns.   Applicant  filed  most  of  his  unfiled  state  and  federal  income  tax  returns  in  bulk,  in  July 2019, with the help of a tax advisor.  Applicant believes he has now  paid  all his past-due taxes and  that all his past-due tax  returns  have  been filed.   AE  B  includes a state return  for tax  year  2015, but that year’s  federal return is not  included in  AE  C. Applicant testified that he thought he might not have  made enough  income to warrant filing a  2015 tax  return.  However, the 2015 state return details “Adjusted gross income from your federal  return” of $7,239. . Documentation as to the  2015  federal  return  was  not  provided  by  the  IRS  in   the  post-hearing   materials Applicant provided.  SOR ¶ 1.o is a state tax lien for $5,497.  Applicant believes it relates to his child support issues. He believes the matter is resolved, but this is undocumented.  Applicant attributed his tax issues to a lack of maturity, as well as the money he was paying in child support. He also acknowledged that he was motivated to clear up his taxes  so  it  would  not  impact  his  clearance.  He  wants  to  rebuild  his  credit  and  make  a better life for his family.  Applicant documented that his 2019 tax returns were filed on time.  He testified that he will file his tax returns on time in the future.  Applicant indicated that he had  been working with several debt consolidators to resolve  his  debts,  paying  one   about  $300  a  month.    His  most  recent  credit counselor offers  financial  classes  and  information, and  Applicant plans to participate.  The debt consolidation service has led to items  being removed from  his credit report.  The  SOR  debts  total  about  $16,312.  They  are  largely  established  through Applicant’s credit reports from May 2017 and October 2018, as well as his most recent credit  report  from  January  2021,  shortly  before  the  hearing.  .  Most  of  the debts are on GE 6, and may have dropped off later credit reports. Applicant also disclosed several of his debts on his SCA and discussed them in his background interview.  .  SOR ¶ 1.c  is a charged-off debt to a credit union. It was charged off in 2013.  Applicant said this was a loan he took out for his brother. He believes the debt consolidation company is resolving the debt, but this is not documented.  SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a  debt  to  a  creditor  bank  for  a  credit  or  debit  card.  It  is unresolved, though Applicant intends to pay it.  SOR  ¶  1.e    is  a  debt  to  a  homeowner’s  association  in  a  timeshare community. A judgment is outstanding.  Applicant noted that the creditor did not deliver  what  they  had  promised,  and  he  and  his  wife  never  benefited  from  the arrangement. He has been unable to resolve the matter, though he said in his Answer that he was setting up a payment plan.  SOR ¶¶ 1.f  and 1.g  are past-due federal student loans relating to Applicant’s time attending a trade school.  He testified that he believes the debts have been paid and resolved since 2019, because he no longer has money taken out of his pay for the debts, he is not certain.  AE A reflects a single payment of $114 in July 2019. Full payment on these two accounts is not documented. These debts are unresolved. SOR ¶ 1.h  is a cell-phone debt in  collection.    Applicant  said  he has the same  cell carrier now, without incident. He  said  in  his Answer that he had  made two payments to  resolve the debt,  but at the hearing he disputed the debt. After the hearing, he provided documentation that his cell phone bill, with  the same carrier,  is current.  This account is resolved. SOR ¶¶  1.i , 1.k  , and 1.m    are medical  debts in  collection.   Applicant  believes   the  debt  consolidator  should  have  resolved  them,   but  this  is undocumented.  SOR ¶ 1.j  is an account placed for collection by a bank.  Applicant believes the debt is resolved, but this is undocumented.  SOR ¶ 1.l  is a cable bill in collection.  Applicant believes the debt is resolved, but this is undocumented.  SOR  ¶  1.n    is  a  debt  in  collection  with  an  apartment  complex.    It appears unresolved.  After  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  46  pages  of  documents  he  had  received from the IRS about his federal taxes.  Those documents reflect that Applicant owes $2,200 in past due taxes for tax year 2012 and intends to pay it.  His 2014 federal return reflects a refund of $587.  His 2016 federal return reflects 4 a refund of $811.  For tax year 2017, the IRS documents reflect receiving a return for which the IRS needed verification from Applicant.  His 2018 federal tax return reflects a $1,558 refund.  There is no allegation in the SOR of any past-due federal tax owed, and in any event, Applicant appears to owe only for tax year 2012, so I will not consider this information as disqualifying conduct. Applicant’s testifying character witness  has been friends with him since 2007. W is  a database  administrator employed by another government agency. He  holds a high- level clearance. On  the  basis of  their long friendship, W attested that Applicant is  a “stand- up guy” and  good family man. He  is responsible, dependable, and  trustworthy.  Applicant’s  supervisor  provided  a  letter  attesting to  Applicant’s  excellent communication skills. He is a supportive team player, both personally and professionally. He is driven, self-confident, proactively helpful, and smart.  Another  friend  and  co-worker  attested  that  he  is  discreet  and  does  not  discuss sensitive information, and is respectful of the rules and regulations regarding protection of such information. Applicant is also “an upstanding citizen and proactive member of the community.” He is a good father, and is supportive towards others. He is trustworthy and has high integrity.  A local law-enforcement officer who has known Applicant for over 20 years also attested to his fine character, as did Applicant’s wife.  