Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  54-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with a defense contractor since 1989. He has held a security clearance since 1989.   He is married, and  has  two  adult  children.   Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption Applicant  began  drinking  alcohol  at  about  15  years  of  age,  and   started  having “drinking problems”  at the age  of 18.   His first Driving Under the Influence  of Alcohol    incident occurred about 1988. This incident was not alleged in  the  SOR. Applicant considers himself to be an alcoholic.  1.d.  Applicant’s  second  alcohol-related  incident  occurred  in  February  of  2008, when he was charged with and pled guilty to DUI.  He received treatment, was diagnosed as suffering from an Alcohol Use Disorder, and attended Alcoholics Anonymous for two years.  1.a. After about eight years of sobriety, Applicant returned to the consumption of alcohol;  and  as  a  result,  received  out-patient  treatment  for  his  Alcohol  Use  Disorder from about February 2017 to about August 2017.  1.b. After a “few months” of sobriety, Applicant again returned to the consumption of  alcohol;  and  as  a  result,  received  in-patient  treatment  for  Alcohol  Use  Disorder, Severe from about January of 2018 to about May 2018.  1.c.  Despite the above mentioned in-patient and out-patient treatments, Applicant returned  to  the  consumption  of  alcohol.    He avers  that  he  has  abstained  from  its  consumption  since  October  of  2018,  about  two years prior to his hearing.  2 Guideline H: Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse 2.a.  and   2.b.  Applicant  used  marijuana  on  numerous  occasions  from  1981  until about January of 2018.  Most of his usage was  prior  to  his  being  granted  a  security  clearance,  but  Applicant  did  use  the  illegal substance “a couple of times”  while holding a security clearance.  Guideline E, Personal Conduct 3.a.  and   3.b.  In  answer  to  Section  23  on  his  October  5,  2017,  SCA,  Applicant failed  to  disclose  his  marijuana  usage.  During  his   subsequent  subject  interview conducted   under  oath  on  January  17,  2019,  Applicant  continued  to  conceal  his marijuana usage.  This lack of candor constitutes willful falsifications. 