In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with clarifications.  He also provided mitigating information.  Applicant is a 60-year-old  U.S.  citizen who seeks a security clearance.  He  was born in Sudan.  In 1995,  he received a bachelor’s degree  in  business studies in  Sudan.  He  has served as a linguist in the  Middle  East since 2016.  In 1993, he was married, and  in  1998, he was divorced.  In 2019, he married  a  second time.   If he receives a security clearance, he expects his annual  income as a linguist to increase from $74,000 to $86,000.  Personal Conduct and Financial Considerations SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a allege that in March 2015, Applicant submitted an application for food stamps in which he falsely indicated he had less than $100 in cash or in the bank. He  traveled  to  the  Middle  East  three  times:    in  May  2015;    from  November  to December 2015; and  from January to February 2016. Applicant   admitted  that  he  completed  a  food  stamp  application   in  March  2015, which   asked   the  following  financial  and   employment-related  questions:     “Will  your household income be more than $150 this month?”;   “Do you have  more than $100 in cash or in  the bank?”;    “Is your income and ready cash this month more than your rent and   utilities?”;   “What will   be your total   income this month?”;   “How   much do you have  in  cash  or  the  bank?”;   “What did you pay for housing  this month?”;  “In the past two  months, did anyone stop working or cut back on their hours?”;  “Are you or  anyone in  your house working?”; and   “Did  anyone sell, trade, or give away anything worth  more than $1,000 during the last three  years?”.  Applicant responded “no” to questions , ,  , , , and  . He  responded “0”  to questions  and  and “$150” to question .  Applicant’s food stamp application also asked: “Does anyone own a car, truck or van? If yes, list Make, Model and Year below.”  Applicant answered “no.”  He purchased a car in 2011 for about $25,000.  He owned this vehicle from 2011 to June 2016, and he used it for part-time taxi services.  In 2014, Applicant and a friend went to Europe and purchased two trucks, which they sold in 2014 in the United Arab Emirates .  Applicant said he did not recall how much he contributed toward the purchase of the trucks, and he did not remember the sales prices.  He could not remember whether they were sold for more or less than $1,000.  3 Applicant said in March 2015, he was told by his “representative” or government caseworker that he was entitled to food stamps and Medicaid because he “did not have a job at  the time.”  He “inadvertently overlooked the question regarding  the amount of money [he] currently had. [He] did not intend to lie or commit fraud. . . . This incident was a simple mistake.”  At his hearing, he said “It’s a mistake because I didn't know the question was like as in my -- like right as of now I had in my pocket a hundred dollars or not. So that's kind of confuse at that time. . . . I didn't know because maybe I was in a rush to just fill that form or I didn’t understand what it was in there.”   He  said  “I  don't  remember  but  maybe  could  be  a  language  barrier,  maybe.  I understand at that time what was written in there.”  He said he could not remember what he was thinking at the time he completed the document in March 2015.  Applicant disclosed on his food stamp application that his mortgage payment was $867 and his taxes were $110; however, he wrote that his mortgage was in “default.”  He was unsure when his mortgage was in default.  He indicated on the food stamp application that he usually speaks English, and he wants services to be provided in English.  He disclosed his employment as a linguist from 2007 to 2010 on his food stamp application; however, he did not disclose any employment from 2011 to 2015.  From 2007 to 2010, Applicant earned $174,000 annually working as a linguist in Iraq.  He said he could not remember how much money he had in his savings account when he left his linguist employment in 2010.  He could not remember whether  it  was  more  than  $100,000,  between  $100,000  and  $50,000,  or  less  than $50,000.  From 2012 to 2016, he worked on call as a medical translator and earned $25 an hour.  He could not remember how much he worked as a medical translator.  He was unsure if he put the income from being a medical translator on his income tax return.  From May 2012 to January 2015, Applicant worked for a part-time taxi service.  He did not remember how much he worked or how much he earned in his part-time taxi service employment.  As to the trips to the Middle East, he said he visited his sister who was ill, and she died in 2019, and his son who was in the UAE.  He paid for the trips using  a  credit  card.    He  said  he  did  not  remember  whether  he  had money in the bank when he traveled overseas from November 2014 to January 2015.  From  2009  to  April  9,  2017,  Applicant  traveled  outside  the  United  States  to  50 foreign countries mostly in the Middle East.  The overseas trips from May 2014 to February 2016 are as follows. From May to June 2014, Applicant traveled to the UAE for 21 to 30 days.  From August to September 2014, he traveled to the UAE for 21 to 30 days.  In November 2014, he traveled to the UAE for one to five days.  From November to December 2014, he traveled to Sudan for more than 30 days.  From December 2014 to January 2015, he traveled to the UAE for 21 to 30 days.  In May 2015, he traveled to Qatar for one to five days and to the UAE for one to five days.  In November 2015, he traveled to Qatar for one to five days.  From November to December 2015, he traveled to the UAE 4 for one to five days.  From December 2015 to January 2016, he traveled to the UAE for one to five days.  From January to February 2016, he traveled to Saudi Arabia for one to five days.  In February 2016, he traveled to the UAE for one to five days.  From  August  2014  to  November  2016,  Applicant  received  from  $189  to  $194 monthly  from  the  food  stamp  program.    He  did  not  remember whether  the  payments  continued  after  November  2016.    He  did  not  remember telling  the  government  to  stop  making  the  payments.    The  food  stamp application indicates Applicant will need to “recertify” for benefits.  There is no evidence  that  Applicant  submitted a mid-certification or recertification for benefits.  See Department  of  Human  Services  website,  https://dhs.dc.gov/service/recertification- benefits. Applicant’s  May  8,  2021 personal  financial  statement  indicates his total monthly income is $4,200, and his net monthly remainder is $1,500.  His primary debts are his mortgage , two credit cards , and a personal loan from a bank .  At  most  Applicant  admitted  that  he  made  a  mistake  when  he  answered  the question in the food stamp application when he said he did not have $100 in cash or in his  bank  account.  He  did  not  admit  that  he  had  $100  or  more  in  cash  or  in  his  bank account. There is no admissible evidence about how much Applicant had in cash or in his bank account when he completed his food stamp application. The SOR did not allege, and there was no evidence that Applicant has any currently delinquent accounts or debts. Foreign Influence SOR ¶¶ 3.a, 3.b, and 3.c allege Applicant’s four brothers, two sisters, and son are citizens  and  residents  of  Sudan.  Applicant’s  son  was  born  in  1995  in  Sudan,  and  he continues  to  reside  in  Sudan.    On  April  9,  2017,  Applicant  said  he communicated with his son on a monthly basis; however, his most recent communication was in February 2015.  On May 7, 2017, he indicated he contacted his son 10 times a year.  At his hearing, Applicant said he does not have any contact or relationship with his son, who is now 26 years old.  The last time he met with his son was in 2015 when Applicant went to the UAE.  In  Applicant’s  April  9,  2017   SCA,  Applicant   said   he  communicated  with  his  four brothers  as  follows:     brother  one:  annually  with   his  most  recent  communication  in December 2014;   brother  two:  monthly with his most  recent communication  in  March 2015;  brother three: monthly with his most recent  communication in  February 2014; and   brother four:  quarterly with  his most recent contact in  February 2014.  In  his May 7,  2017  counterintelligence  questionnaire, he indicated he communicated with two of his brothers 12 times  a year.   For the other two brothers,  he did not indicate frequency of contact.   At his hearing, he  said  he talked to one  brother about a year ago  but not to the others.   He  said he does not communicate with them because: “Just due  [to] my job, you know, concerns I don't  talk to them anymore. 5 And I'm kind of busy and they're busy too. So then I told them now I have a different job requirement to stay away so I don't want to get in talk to them.”  He talked to one brother possibly in 2016, because he needed help arranging his divorce.  In  Applicant’s  April  9,  2017  SCA,   Applicant   said   he  communicated  with  his  two sisters  quarterly with his most  recent communications  in December 2014.   At his hearing, he said  he has not talked to his sisters for about six years.  In Applicant’s April 9,  2017 SCA,  he said  he traveled to  Sudan  as follows:  from November to December 2010 ;    from November to December 2011 ;    from  November  to  December  2012   ;     from November to December 2014  ;  in  September 2016 ; and    for three weeks in  2019.  SOR  ¶¶  3.d,  3.e,  and  3.f  allege:  he  provided  about  $7,000  yearly  from  2009  to present to his brother who is a citizen and resident in Sudan; he provided about $200 yearly from 2009 to present to his sisters who are citizens and residents of Sudan; and he provided about $3,000 yearly to his son who is a citizen and resident of Sudan. At his hearing, Applicant said he provided about $7,000 in 2009 to his brother in Sudan, and about $200 in 2009 to his sisters in Sudan.  He gave another brother some money to “stand on his feet”; however, he did not remember when he gave him the money or how much he gave him.  He provided about $3,000 annually to his son, but stopped making payments.  He did not remember when he stopped providing funds to his son.  He could not remember when he gave money to his brothers and sisters.  Applicant’s  parents are deceased.  In 2019, he married, and his 35-year-old spouse is a resident and citizen of Sudan.  She lives with Applicant’s uncle in Sudan.  Since 2019, Applicant has provided $15,000 in support to her.  He has not been with her since he went to Sudan in 2019 for three  weeks  when  they  were  married.    She  has  never  been  to  the  United States, and he has applied for a permanent resident visa or green card to enable her to live in the  United States.    He reported  his marriage to his employer.  He said he renounced his Sudan citizenship; however, he  was  unsure  about  how  he  renounced  his  citizenship.    Sudan  does  not recognize dual citizenship, and Applicant’s Sudan citizenship may have been involuntarily revoked when he obtained citizenship in the United States. Multiple Citizenship website, available at https://www.multiplecitizenship.com/wscl/wsSUDAN.html. Applicant has significant connections to the United States. He immigrated to the United States in 1999.  In 2004, he became a U.S. citizen.  He uses a U.S. passport.  He has lived in a Middle Eastern country since 2016 working for a DOD contractor.  He votes in the United States, and he pays United States and local  taxes.    He  has  about  $80,000  in  U.S.  bank  and  retirement accounts.  6 Applicant was exposed to death or serious injury while he served with U.S. armed forces  in  Iraq  from  2007  to  2010.    For  example,  he  said  in  2010,  he  left employment as  a linguist because “a  rocket  hit the building” where he lived.   It landed next to his room, but due to sandbags it did not explode.  Character Evidence On March 18, 2021, an Army captain wrote that Applicant is an incredible asset to the mission.  “He always is in the right place, right uniform at the right time and works  independently  taking  on  additional  duties  and  responsibilities  as  the  situation requires.  [He] is a  team player and  always  places the mission  before himself.”   He provided  photographs  of  himself  with  U.S.  military  personnel  which  is  an  indication  of having an excellent relationship with them.  Applicant’s program manager has  known  him  since  2016  and  describes  Applicant  as  mature,  intelligent,  and  self- motivated.  He contributes to mission accomplishment.  On May 7, 2020, an Army captain wrote that Applicant has a positive attitude and excellent work ethic.  Their statements support approval of his access to classified information.  Applicant received a unit coin and certificate of appreciation for his contributions to the success of those units that received his support.  His resume described his work for DOD from 2007 to 2010 and 2016 to present.  Sudan On April 11, 2019, following months of protests, civil unrest, and a national state of  emergency,  the  Sudanese  army  announced  the  overthrow  of  the  government  of President Omar Hassan al Bashir and the establishment of a transitional military council. Previous  to  this,  Sudan  was  a  republic  with  power  concentrated  in  the  hands  of authoritarian President al-Bashir and the National Congress Party, which had maintained nearly absolute political authority in Sudan for three decades. The transition to a new government was not entirely peaceful. On June 3, 2019, security forces violently dispersed protesters at a sit-in, killing and injuring hundreds. On June 5, 2019, the U.S. Department of State released the following: "The United States condemns the recent attacks on protesters in Sudan . . . We call on Sudan's Transitional Military  Council  and  the  Rapid  Support  Forces  to  desist  from  violence  and  we  call  for resumed contact with the Forces for Freedom and Change with the aim of a civilian-led transition that leads to timely elections and free expression of the will of the Sudanese people.” U.S. Dept. of State, Press Statement: Situation in Sudan . On June 6, 2019, the U.S. Embassy cited violence and civil unrest continuing in Khartoum  and  in  cities  across  Sudan,  resulting  in  local  travel  by  U.S.  government personnel being limited to minimal, officially approved movements only. In September 2019, Sudan officially formed the civilian-led transitional government . The CLTG is composed of a Sovereign Council, a Council of Ministers headed by  the  prime  minister,  and  a  Legislative  Council.  The  11-person  Sovereign  Council  is 7 composed of six civilians and five military officers. On August 20, Dr. Abdalla Hamdok was sworn in as prime minister. Under the constitutional declaration, general elections are to be held in 2022. The country last held national elections   in  2015.  Since  the  formation  of  the  CLTG,  large-scale  protests  have  died down. Smaller, localized protests have continued with a focus on injustices committed by the Bashir regime and violence that took place during the protest period leading to the creation of the CLTG. Most of the protests have been nonviolent, but they often led to road closures by security  forces and the  protesters.  At  times, the  security  forces  have used tear gas to disperse protestors. Since 1993, the U.S. Secretary of State has designated Sudan as a State Sponsor of  Terrorism  for  supporting  international  terrorist  groups,  including  the  Abu  Nidal Organization, Palestine Islamic Jihad, Hamas, and Hizballah. The CLTG asserted it does not support terrorist organizations that were tolerated under the Bashir regime. The CLTG has  taken  steps  to  limit  the  activities  of  these  terrorism  organizations  and  worked  to disrupt  foreign  fighters’  use  of  the  country  as  a  logistics  base  and  transit  point.  The Department of State assesses Khartoum as being a HIGH-threat location for terrorism directed at or affecting official U.S. government interests. Elements of ISIS, al-Qa’ida, and many other terrorist organizations recruit in Sudan. As of August 2020, the Department of State's travel advisory for Sudan was Level 3: Reconsider travel to Sudan due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and armed conflict. Terrorist  groups  are  still  active  in  Sudan  and  have  stated  their  intent  to  harm Westerners and Western interests through suicide operations, bombings, shootings, and kidnappings. Despite  the  absence  of  high-profile  terrorist  attacks,  ISIS  facilitation  networks appear to be active within Sudan. The newly appointed Minister of Religious Affairs and Endowments under the CLTG denied the existence of an official ISIS entity in Sudan but acknowledged that there were “extremists” linked to ISIS in the country. The Minister of Religious  Affairs  and  Endowments  also  emphasized  that  his  ministry  would  work  on combating  extremism,  fighting  terrorism  and  renewing  school  curricula  to  promote tolerance. In 2003, non-Arabs in the western region of Darfur, who since 1990 have accused the government of systematic discrimination, marginalization, and oppression, rebelled against  the  government,  protesting  decades  of  political  and  economic  neglect.  The government  responded  with  brutal  force,  including  the  use  of  Arab  militias  known  as Janjaweed. In the ensuing conflict, more than 300,000 people were killed. To date, the conflict  in  Darfur  has  affected  4.7  million  people,  including  more  than  1.76  million internally displaced persons  in need of humanitarian assistance. The United States characterized  the  government  and  affiliated  militia  attacks  on  civilians  in  2004  as genocide. In mid-2011, following South Sudan's independence, conflict broke out between the  government  and  the  Sudan  People's  Liberation  Movement-North  in  Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile states. The conflict has severely affected or displaced more than 8 1.1 million people within  the two  areas and  caused  more than 300,000 people  to flee to neighboring  countries.  The   government   of   Sudan   announced  in   January  2019  that  it would continue  indefinitely its unilateral cease fire,  in  effect since 2016, with armed rebels throughout  the  Blue  Nile  region   and   Southern  Kordofan   region.   The   Sudan  People's Liberation  Movement-North  has  also  maintained   its  unilateral   cessation  of  hostilities without a commensurate announcement. Significant human rights issues under the Bashir government included: unlawful or arbitrary killings; forced disappearances; torture; and arbitrary detentions, all by security forces;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  political  prisoners;  arrests  and intimidation  of  journalists,  censorships,  newspaper  seizures,  and  site  blockings; substantial interference with the rights of peaceful assembly and freedom of association, such  as  overly  restrictive  nongovernmental  organization    laws;  restrictions  on religious  liberty;  restrictions  on  political  participation;  widespread  corruption;  lack  of accountability in cases involving violence against women; trafficking in persons; outlawing of  independent  trade  unions;  and  child  labor.  Respect  for  human  rights,  in  particular fundamental freedoms of expression, assembly, and religion, greatly improved after the CLTG took power. Bashir  government  authorities  did  not  investigate  human  rights  violations  by  its security services or any other branch of the security services. However, the CLTG has launched a human rights investigation into the June 3, 2019 security force violations. In addition, the attorney general and security forces had agreed on a temporary process to remove  immunity  from  security  forces  and  government  institutions  involved  in  human rights violations. 