In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR  Applicant  admitted  the  factual  allegation  in  Sub Paragraph 1.a. of the SOR, but denied the factual allegation of Sub Paragraph 2.b., with explanations. He also provided additional information to support his request for eligibility for a security clearance. Applicant  is  29  years  old,  and  married.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  science and electrical engineering. He works for a defense contractor.  Guideline I –  Psychological Conditions 1.a.  In  November  of  2013,  more  than  seven  years  ago,  Applicant  received voluntary,  inpatient  psychiatric  treatment  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  “Schizophrenia, paranoid type.”  1.b.  In  June  of  2019,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  psychologist. Although  this  psychologist  could  not  “confirm  his  [Applicant’s]  former  diagnosis  of Schizophrenia,”  she  found  that  Applicant  “has  experienced  unusual  perception experiences,  distortions  in  thinking,  and  functional  impairment,  which  support  a diagnosis of Unspecified Schizophrenia Spectrum and Other Psychotic Disorder.”   This  psychologist  further  concluded  that  there  was  “concern  regarding  his [Applicant’s] trustworthiness, reliability, and judgment.”  To counter this assessment, Applicant has offered a March 2020 evaluation of a licensed  clinical  psychologist.  She  discounts  any  history  of  Schizophrenia,  but  rather attributes any mental-health symptoms to withdrawal from a prescribed drug he used to treat Depression.  Her  “Diagnostic  Impressions”  are,  “Persistent  Depressive  Disorder,  with  Anxious Distress, early onset, in full remission,” and a “History of Major Depressive Disorder, in full remission.”  Furthermore, this psychologist opined that, “At this time, it appears . . . [Applicant] does not pose a threat to receiving classified status based on his current psychological functioning.” Applicant  is  also  currently  receiving  “weekly  psychotherapy  sessions  .  .  .  for symptoms of anxiety and depression.”  2 