Applicant  is  a  54-year-old  alarm  room  supervisor  for  a  defense  contractor  who seeks continuation of her security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant married  in  December  1988  and  divorced  in  October 2002.  She has  four   adult   children     from   her  former   husband.   Applicant earned  her high  school diploma  in  June  1984. She  attended  several colleges  between August 1986  and  January  2011  and  earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in  January  2011.  Applicant reported no military service.  Since   January   2000,   Applicant  has  been   employed   by   her  current  employer  as an   alarm   room   supervisor.   Previously,  she   worked   for another employer  as a dispatcher/guard.  Applicant’s  finances Between December 2017 and 2020, Applicant accumulated five delinquent debts exceeding  $33,000.    She  has  a  considerable  history  of  financial  difficulties that  led  to  the  revocation  off  her  security  clearance  in  2003  before  her  clearance  was reinstated  in  2008.    Since  her  clearance  reinstatement  in  2008,  she  has accrued  additional  debts  without  documented  efforts  to  resolve  them  to  date.  She attributes her more recent debts to chronic health issues. However, she did not detail or 2 provide  any  assurances  as  to  when  the  medical  costs  associated  with  her  medical issues would subside and afford more opportunity to make more progress in addressing her accrued debt delinquencies.  Applicant’s most recent credit report reveals the closure of the accounts covered by  the  SOR.    Why  these  accounts  were  closed  is  unclear.  Neither  the  credit report  nor  Applicant  furnished  documented  information  of  the  circumstances  that produced the closure of  these accounts, and their disposition cannot be the subject of speculation. Based on the earlier credit reports cited in the FORM, all of the listed SOR debts remain unresolved and outstanding. Absent  more  documented  proof  from  Applicant  that  her  listed  debts  are  being addressed  with  payments  and  payment  plans,  resolution  of  Applicant’s  SOR-listed accounts cannot be favorably established. 