In  his SOR answer, Applicant admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a, but denied  SOR ¶¶  1.b  and 1.c.   His  admission   is   incorporated   as  a   finding   of   fact.   After  a   review   of   the   pleadings and evidence, I make the  following  additional findings of  fact. Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He began  working at his present job in October 2014. He attended a service academy from 2002 to 2006, where  he  graduated  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  was  commissioned  as  a  second lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  served  in  the  Army  as  a  Captain  until  he  submitted a resignation for the good of the service in lieu of facing charges referred against him at a general  court-martial.  His  resignation  was  accepted  by  the  Secretary of  the  Army  and he was discharged with an “under other than honorable conditions” discharge on April 5, 2011. He is married, but has no children.  The SOR alleged that Applicant was discharged from the Army in 2011, with an other than honorable discharge, in lieu of trial by court-martial on the referred charges of violations  of  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice    Article  121   and Article 132 . The SOR  also alleged  that  Applicant falsified  his answers when  completing his security  clearance  application    in  November  2017  when  he  failed  to  disclose  in Section 13A that his separation from the Army was based upon charges or allegations of  misconduct  ;  and  in  Section  22  when  he  failed  to  disclose  that  he  was charged under the UCMJ with the offenses of larceny and filing a false claim  . In  April  2010,  Applicant  received  permanent  change  of  station    orders  to relocate  to  a  new  duty  station.  To  move  his  household  goods  to  his  new  location,  he chose  the  do-it-yourself    move  option.  This  option  allows  a  service  member  to move his household goods himself and then be reimbursed by the government for the move expenses and for the weight of the goods transported up to a certain limit based upon rank and family size. On March 30, 2010, Applicant attended a mandatory briefing about  conducting  a  DITY  move  that  covered  such  things  as  what  items  were  not allowable to claim for a DITY move. He also received a checklist of allowable and non- allowable DITY move items. Building material, such as bags of concrete or cement mix, are disallowed for DITY moves.  2 in  preparation In  April  2020, for  his  DITY  move,  Applicant  purchased approximately  60  bags  of  concrete  mix,  with  each  bag  weighing  approximately  90 pounds. He loaded the bags onto the trailer he would be using for his DITY move. He purchased  the  concrete  mix  for  the  sole  purpose  of  increasing  his  household  goods weight  so that  he  would  receive  a larger reimbursement from  the government after he filed  his  DITY-move  claim.  He  contracted  to  have  the  trailer  moved  to  his  new  duty location.  The  trailer  arrived  on  approximately  April  29,  2010,  and  was  dropped  off  at Applicant’s  new  address.  The  contractor-driver came  back the  next  day to  pick up  the trailer. He noticed that remaining in the trailer were 18-20 bags of concrete mix weighing approximately  90  pounds  each.  In  early  May  2010,  someone  from  the  contractor’s company  reported  the  incident  to  the  post  Inspector  General’s  office.  A  criminal investigation  commenced  under  the  authority  of  the  Army’s  Criminal  Investigation Command  .  In  June  2010,  Applicant  was  interviewed  as  part  of  the  investigation and  in  a  sworn  statement  admitted  purchasing  the  concrete  bags  to  intentionally increase his weight for the DITY move so he would be paid more money.  As  a   result  of   the   CID   investigation,  on   July   23,   2010,  three   charges  under  the UCMJ  were  preferred   against   Applicant:   1)   a   violation   of   UCMJ  Article  122—theft  of more than  $12,000  of  government property; 2) a  violation  of UCMJ Article 132—making a   fraudulent  claim   against   the   government   for  more  than   $12,000;  3)  a   violation   of Article  133—conduct  unbecoming   an   officer  by   wrongfully   increasing   his  household goods  weight.   A   UCMJ  Article  32   hearing   was  held  in  approximately   August  2010, which  resulted   in  a   referral of   the   charges  to   a   general court-martial by   the   convening authority.  In  January  2011, Applicant voluntarily  tendered  his resignation  from  the  Army for the  good  of  the  service in lieu  of  trial by  court-martial.  The  command  recommended approval  of  the   resignation   for  the   good   of  the   service  with   the   issuance   of  an   under other  than  honorable discharge. The  Secretary  of Army  approved  the  recommendation with   an   under  than   honorable  discharge.  Applicant   was  separated   from   the   Army   on April  5,  2011,  with   an   under  other  than   honorable  discharge.   He  has  filed   four applications with  the  Army  Discharge  Review Board     seeking  an  upgrade  of his  discharge.  The  first three  were denied with no relief granted, and the  fourth remains unaddressed.   On   November  29,  2017,  Applicant   completed   and   cerified   as   true   and   accurate his SCA.  Section 13A  of  the  SCA  asked  Applicant if  any  of  the  following  happened  in the   last  seven   years  concerning   his   employment  activities  : 1)  been   fired   from   a   job;  2)  quit  after  being   told  you   would  be   fired;  3)  left   a   job   by mutual  agreement  following   charges  or  allegations  of   misconduct;   and   4)  left  a   job   by mutual  agreement   following   notice   of  unsatisfactory   performance.   Applicant  answered “no”  to   this  question.   Section  22   of   the   SCA   asked,  inter  alia,  have   you   ever  been charged  with  any  felony  offense, including  those  under the  UCMJ and  nonmilitary  felony offenses. Applicant answered “no” to this question.   In Applicant’s DRB applications and during his hearing testimony, he now claims he did nothing wrong by increasing his household goods weight for his DITY move. He 3 believes he was “set up” by CID; that his military defense attorney was working against him ; he believes the Army was racist when they questioned his mother during the court-martial process; he believes that he received an improper briefing about his DITY move; and that evidence against him was falsified. He also believes that the  Army’s acceptance  of his resignation in lieu of  court-martial was vindication that he did no wrongdoing.  In contrast, in his resignation submission  to the Secretary  of  the  Army,  he  apologized  to  his  command  and  said  that  he  submitted  a false claim for selfish monetary reasons and his actions were shameful and regrettable.  Also  during  his  testimony,  Applicant  admitted  that  what  he  did  was  wrong  ,  but  claims  he  had  no  intent  to  deceive  the government when he answered “no” to the relevant questions in  Sections 13A and 22 of  his  SCA.  He  believed  that  once  his  resignation  was  accepted  and  his  court-martial charges were dismissed, he did not have to answer “yes” to those questions.  He stated that his attorney, who represented him during his Army legal proceedings, told him that as  well.  He  admitted  giving  considerable  thought  to  those  questions.  I  did  not  find Applicant to be credible.  Applicant documented that he made restitution to the government for the amount of his fraudulent claim. He paid this amount in August 2010.  