Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.p  with  explanations.  I  construe  his answers to SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b  as denials of intent to falsify his SCA.  His admissions incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 35 years old. He was married from 2006 to 2011, though he and his wife were separated during some of that period. That relationship produced no children. Applicant  and  his  second  wife  have  been  married  for  four  years,  and  cohabitated  for several  years  before  that.  They  are  now  separated,  and  Applicant  filed  for  divorce  in December 2019. The divorce remains pending.  They have one daughter, age  13.  She  lives  with  her  mother  in  another  state.  Applicant  is  current  on  his  $800 monthly child support.  Applicant’s wife also has two children of her own  from a prior relationship. He has helped them financially.  After graduating from high school in 2005, Applicant served in the U.S. Navy on active duty for four years, until June 2009.  He reported on his SCA that from June 2009 to June 2014, he was largely unemployed.  He 2 then  attended  college  for about two  years, but did not  earn  a  degree.  From about September 2012 to June 2013 and from August 2013 to January 2014, Applicant held some temporary, part-time positions. He also had a later job, from June 2014 to an undefined period, as a construction worker.  In June 2014, Applicant enlisted in the Army National Guard .  He deployed to the Middle East with his unit for  several months in  2017 and 2018.  He continues to serve in the ANG, in an active reserve capacity. His reserve unit is in a different state many hours from where he now lives, so he arranges to do his reserve time all at once.  The home where Applicant’s wife lives is a rental. His home in the locale where he works is paid for by his employer.  Since  February  2018,  Applicant  has  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a shipboard  engineer  or  mechanic  on  a  maritime  prepositioning  ship.   From July 2019 to December 2020, he was deployed overseas with the ship.  He said he does not need a security clearance for his current job, but has applied for one so he can be promoted to supervisor.  He also said he was placed on paid administrative leave the week before the hearing.  He was earning $27.62 an hour.  The  Guideline  F  allegations  in  the  SOR  concern  multiple  federal  debts,  mostly student loans, some cell-phone debts, medical debts, and a charged-off debt relating to a car. The debts are listed on credit reports from March 2018 and August 2019.  GE 5, a 2021 credit report, reflects that Applicant’s credit file has been frozen. Applicant testified that his five-year period of unemployment or underemployment  began after his wife gave birth to their first child. She, too, was unemployed at  the  time.   Applicant testified  that he  was  pursuing an  education full time during these years. He testified that he supported himself through the 9/11 GI Bill.  He testified that his unemployment impacted his ability to pay his debts.  GE 6, a 2014 credit report, reflects numerous delinquent accounts, including federal student loans, debts to the VA, and other debts from that time period. SOR ¶ 1.a   is a charged-off account  relating to an  automobile. Applicant said his wife  purchased  a car when  he  was working  or serving  overseas.  Recent  documentation  shows that  the  amount currently  owed  is $9,376.   It  remains delinquent.  Applicant attributed  this to  being  absent from  home, either on  deployment  or living  separately  from  his  wife  and  returning  home  only  for  military  drills.   He acknowledged  financial responsibility  for the  car, even  though  it was his wife’s.   This  debt  is  unresolved.  Applicant  acknowledged   that   two   prior  cars  he purchased, in 2000 and 2008, were also voluntarily repossessed.  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  , 1.c  , 1.d  , 1.h  , 1.i , 1.j , 1.k , and 1.l  are eight delinquent federal student loans.  Applicant testified that the student loans became delinquent because he was 3 not working and because “my wife was put in charge of taking care of it, but she never did.”  He believed that the student loans could be used for many purposes, not only books and supplies, but also personal and living expenses.  Applicant, through his wife, retained a law firm to manage  his student loans. He said that during the period of his deployment to the Middle East in 2017, he paid the law firm about $250 per paycheck for about eight months, but the debts were not resolved.  AE J reflects one payment to the law firm in November 2017, for about $120. In December 2020, Applicant consolidated his federal student loans together in an organized payment plan.  Six of the eight student loan accounts are  listed  on  AE  D,  a  letter  to  Applicant  from  a  collection  agency  concerning  a rehabilitation  plan.  Under  the  plan,  Applicant  was  to  make  nine  monthly  payments  of about $401, beginning in mid-December 2020.  He has missed payments, which he said was because he had to pay to retain legal counsel . He said he is in contact with the collection agency and intends to make future payments.  Applicant believes that all of his federal student loans are consolidated together, as detailed in AE D.  The student loans remain unresolved. SOR ¶¶ 1.e  and 1.g  are accounts placed for collection by the VA. The origin of these debts is rather unclear. Applicant stated in his Answer that this was an “overpayment” of housing payments taken from his drill checks that were stopped when he went on deployment and then placed for collection.  He later said they were overpayments of BAH  payments that he received under the 9/11 GI Bill.  Applicant asserted that he received BAH during his years of unemployment , years in which he was neither on active duty  or active in the ANG, either in reserve drill status or deployed on active duty . He also asserted that his BAH allotment during this period was not enough to pay his bills, which is why he fell behind.  He also testified that a 2017 deployment to a remote location in the  Middle  East made it  difficult to monitor his finances.  His  wife  was  in  charge  of  the household bills.  Applicant stated  that his wife  initially  retained  a  law  firm  to  resolve  these  debts,  but they  took no  action. He  said he  has entered  into  a  payment plan, and  that the  debts were being  resolved  through  withholdings from  his military  drill  checks.   This is undocumented.  He said his  tax returns have been  filed, but he did not know if any  federal tax  refunds had  been  withheld to  address his federal debts.  He also acknowledged knowing about the VA debts for a long time.  AE H is an internet printout from the VA website. It references an application for a financial status report  and an application for disability compensation . Both forms are indicated to be “in progress.”  Applicant believes that Form 5655 is an “application to waive the accounts” due to financial hardship.   The  VA  forms that  Applicant  said  he  prepared  are  not in  evidence. SOR  ¶¶ 1.e  and 1.g are not resolved. Department Counsel agreed that SOR ¶ 1.p  is a duplicate of SOR ¶ 1.e ,  as  it  was  taken  from  a  different  credit  report.  It  will  be  resolved  for Applicant on that basis.  SOR ¶ 1.f  is a past-due medical account. It has been paid in full.  SOR  ¶  1.n    is also  a  past-due  medical  account  that  Applicant  says  has been paid.  SOR ¶ 1.m  is a debt placed for collection by a phone company. Applicant noted in his Answer that the account is old, and the debt relates to a cancellation fee that he was unaware of. While noting that the debt no longer appears on his credit report, he said he is paying it.  At hearing, he testified that this was a joint phone plan he previously held with his wife. He said he currently has an account with the same phone company, and is in good standing.  SOR  ¶  1.o    is  a  debt  placed  for  collection  by  a  cable  TV  company  for unreturned equipment. The debt is no longer on Applicant’s credit report, but he said he would pay it when he is able.  He testified that the debt remains delinquent, but he intends to pay it, though he later said he was not aware of it.  Applicant said he has not had any formal credit counseling, but he is  now more “self-aware” of his credit status. He said he had no other delinquent debts beyond what is alleged in the SOR.  He showed evidence of payments on other debts, not alleged, and provided evidence of improved finances  In  March  2020,  due  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic,  the  Department  of  Education began providing temporary relief on federal student loans, including suspension of loan payments and  collections  on defaulted  student  loans. On January 20, 2021, President Biden extended that COVID-19 emergency relief to at least September 30, 2021.  When Applicant submitted his SCA, in February 2018, he was asked  if “You are currently delinquent on  any Federal debt.”  He was also asked to disclose any  delinquencies  involving  “Routine  Accounts”  in  the  past  seven  years, including  any debts  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency  or  “any  account  or  credit  card  suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed.”  Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant allegedly falsified his SCA in failing to disclose either his federal debts, to the Department of Education and to the VA  or his various other charged-off debts and debts in collection , as required. He answered “No” to all the financial questions on the SCA, though he  did 5 indicate that he was “working with  [a] credit repair company to fix old issues.”  In   answering   the   SOR,  Applicant  denied   any   intent  to   falsify   his  SCA.  At  his hearing, he  testified that he  had retained  a law firm to  file claims on  his behalf with credit bureaus, and, as a  result, items  would be  deleted from  his credit report. He believed this to  mean  that “there  was nothing  on  my  credit report that showed  I owed  anything.”   He  said he  checked  his credit report  in December  2017,  before  preparing his SCA in February  2018.  Applicant also denied  having  any  “current” debts.    He testified  that  at the  time, he believed  all  his debts were take  care of,  either by  the law  firm  or by  his wife.    He acknowledged  being  confronted  about his delinquent debts during  his background  interview, and  being  “completely  taken  aback” as he  thought it all “was taken care of.”  Two supervisors provided recommendation letters for Applicant. They attest that he is reliable, flexible, and a self-starter requiring little supervision. He is very mission- oriented, has excellent leadership skills, and works well with his peers. He is trusted and respected.  