Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  2019.  He  is  married  after  a  previous divorce, and has two grown children, and one stepchild.  Applicant attributes his admitted past-due indebtedness to his divorce. Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits a past-due, credit-card debt of about $53,000  that is directly related  to  his divorce.  He is making  monthly  payments  averaging  about  $150; and  has paid a   total   of  $5,950  towards  this debt, as evidenced   by   documentation.   I find  a  good-faith  effort  to  satisfy  this debt; and  as such, this allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  admits   a   past-due,  credit-card   debt  of  about   $15,000   that  is  not related  to  his  divorce.  He has done  nothing  to  address  this  debt,  despite  admitting  the ability to do so. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c.   Applicant  admits   an   outstanding   judgment,   related   to   a   credit-card  debt,   in the  amount of  about $13,000.  He has done  nothing  to  address this debt.  This allegation is found  against Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits a  past-due, credit-card  debt of  about $8,000.  He has done nothing  to  address this  debt.    This allegation  is found against Applicant. 1.e.  and   1.f.   Applicant   has  two   judgments  in   favor  of   Creditor  E   in  amounts  of $4,872   and   $2,416,  respectively.  One   judgment  has  been   satisfied,  and   Applicant  is making  monthly  payments of  $300  towards the  other,  as supported  by  documentation.   I find  a  good-faith  effort to satisfy these  debts;  and  as such, these allegations are found  for Applicant. 1.g.  Applicant  admits  a   past-due,  credit-card   debt  of   about  $598.   He  has  done nothing  to  address this debt.   This allegation  is found against Applicant. 2 1.h.  Applicant  admits a  past-due,  bank  debt  of  about  $490.  He  has  done  nothing to   address  this  debt.     This  allegation   is  found   against Applicant. 1.i.  Applicant admits a  past-due,  medical debt of  about $686. He  avers he  has “paid” this, but has submitted  nothing   in support of  his averment.   This allegation  is found  against Applicant. 1.j. Applicant admits that Bank  J appears to  have  charged-off  a  delinquent credit- card debt in the  amount of  about $700.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.k.   Applicant  admits  a   past-due,   medical  debt  of   about  $40.  He  avers  he   has “paid” this, but has submitted  nothing  in support of  his averment.   This allegation is found  against Applicant. 1.l. Applicant  admits he  owed  delinquent Federal income  taxes for  tax  year 2017 in the  amount of  about  $22,000, and  that he  has yet to  address  this delinquency.  This allegation  is found  against Applicant. 1.m.  Applicant  admits   he   owes  delinquent  Federal  income   taxes   for  tax   year 2010  in the  amount of about $3,900, and  has  submitted  documentation  showing  he  has addressed   this  delinquency.   This allegation is found  for  Applicant. 1.n.  Applicant  admits  he  owes  delinquent  Federal income  taxes for tax  year 2018 in the  amount of  about  $11,000, and  that he  has yet to  addressed  this delinquency.   This  allegation   is  found against Applicant. 