Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  support  center  analyst  for  a  defense  contractor  who seeks continuation of her security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant never married and has no children.  She earned a high school diploma in April 2010 and reported college class attendance between August 2006 and at  least  May  2020.    reportedly,  she  did  not  earn  a  college  diploma.  Applicant enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Reserve  in  April  2010  and  completed  her  enlistment  in February 2020.  Since February 2020, she has served in her state’s Air National Guard.  Since  February  2020,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer.  Previously, she worked for other employers in different types of  jobs.  She has possessed a security clearance since approximately May 2010.  Applicant’s  finances Between   September  2006   and   August  2007,  Applicant  took  out  four  student loans with  the  student  loan  creditor holding  student loan  accounts  covered  by  SOR  ¶¶ 1.a-1.d.  These  four  loans are comprised  of  SOR  ¶  1.a  ; 1.b  ; 1.c ; and  1.d  . Unable  to  afford her monthly  payments any  longer after experiencing   unspecified   periods  of   intermittent  under  employment   between   2009   and 2018, she  let her accounts become  delinquent.   While  she  managed  to  stay in  touch   with   her  student  loan   creditor  over  the   years  in  pursuit  of  lower  payments  or deferral of  the  accounts, she  could  provide  no  dates or details of arrangements reached with  the  creditor. Claiming  she  had  made  three  sporadic payments on  her student loan accounts over the  years, she  could  not provide  any  details of the  dates and  amounts of her  claimed   payments.     Credit   reports  document   that  Applicant’  student  loans 2 were last reported to be  delinquent in November 2017 and were thereafter transferred to SOR creditor 1.a-1.d for collection the same month and year. While Applicant claims to have consolidated her student loans  in January 2021 with her loan creditor’s servicing agent, she provided no documentation of  following  up  on  her  approved  loan  consolidation  with  monthly  payments  on  the consolidated loan balance. . Absent documentation from Applicant of her implementing her approved student loan  consolidation  with  monthly  payments  to  establish  some  payment  track  record, restoration  of  her student  loans  to  current  status  cannot be  established. Worth noting, Applicant has made no documented progress in addressing her student loan accounts since her accounts were first reported as delinquent in 2017.  