Applicant  is a 36-year-old  software  tester for a  defense  contractor  who  seeks a security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  has  never  married  or  entered  into  a  legally  recognized  domestic partnership and has no children.  She cohabited with another between 2016 and October  2020.    Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  and  attended some  college  classes  without  earning  a  degree  or  diploma.    Her completed  post-college  classes  include  defense  courses  related  to  cyber-security  and understanding how to handle classified and unclassified information.   Applicant reported no military service. Since   August  2018,  Applicant  has  been   employed   by   her   current  defense contractor   as  a   software  tester.    Previously,  she   worked   for  other non-defense  employers in various jobs  .  She has never held a security clearance.  2 Applicant’s history of  alcohol-related and  other-traffic-related offenses Between  2007  and  2018,  Applicant  was  involved  in  a  number  of  traffic-related offenses. One of the incidents was alcohol-related that resulted in her arrest  in August 2011 for driving under the influence . Arrest records confirm that she was charged with DUI in August 2011 , pled guilty, was fined $250, and was sentenced to  probation before  judgment.   Her  probation  conditions  included  suspension  of her driving privileges  for 30  days  and  avoidance of  any repetitive  behavior.    Upon  satisfaction  of  her  probation  conditions,  the  DUI  charges  were  court- dismissed  without  judgment.    Since  her  2011  DUI,  Applicant  rarely consumes alcohol and has never been charged with another DUI offense.  Records  document  that  between  July  2007  and  January  2016,  Applicant  was charged  with  driving  on  a  suspended  license  on  six  separate  occasions   When she failed to appear on these  traffic-related  arrests  and  charges,  the  presiding  courts  issued  bench  warrants and license suspensions.  Most of the time, she did not appear for her scheduled court hearings  due  to  memory  lapses  and  her  failures  to  open  her  mail,  but  on  a  few occasions, the warrant notices did not reach her at her new addresses.  Applicant  never  requested  any  of  the  presiding  courts  to  place  one  or  more  of  the individual cases on the stet dockets.  While  driving  home  in  May  2018,  Applicant  was  stopped  and  charged  with knowingly  driving  an  uninsured  vehicle  and  driving  a  vehicle  on  a  highway  with  a suspended registration.   For cited lack of monetary resources to cover her insurance billings, she avoided opening her mail and continued to  drive  her  vehicle  back  and  forth  to  work  for  over  eight  months  before  she  was stopped  and  charged.    When  she  appeared  in  court  to  answer the charges, she was released by the court without any jail time.  Applicant has more income now and promised to avoid driving in the future should she lack insurance and to faithfully attend scheduled  hearings  should she  ever be  issued a  citation  in the future.  Appearing   in  court   to   answer  the   pending   driving   an   uninsured   vehicle   on   a suspended  registration, she  pled  guilty, was fined  $2,400  ,   and   was  sentenced   to   probation   before   judgment.      Probation   conditions  included   insuring   her  vehicle,  updating   her  registration, performing   community   service,  and   completing   her  already-enrolled   substance   abuse program.  Applicant is credited  with  satisfying  her court-approved  payment plan and  successfully   completing   all   of   the   requirements  of   her  substance   abuse   program and other imposed  probation  conditions.  Pending charges were dismissed.   Since her last traffic-related offense, in 2018, Applicant has never let her insurance  lapse.  Between 2016 and February, Applicant and her ex-boyfriend cohabited.   While  their  financial  living  arrangements  were  based  on  cost- sharing,  her  boyfriend  often  failed  to  cover  his  share  of  the  bills    that  he  promised  to  take  care  of.    Without  financial assistance from her boyfriend, Applicant turned to working night shifts on other jobs to make more money.  From the outset, their relationship included periodic heated arguments  and generally abusive treatment of her by her  boyfriend.    To  improve  their  relationship,  they  attended  couples counselling  in  2019,  albeit  without  any  tangible  success.    Applicant struggled  with  mood  swings  during  this  time  frame.  To  address  her  emotional  issues, Applicant  briefly  consulted  a  therapist  during  the  same  period  to  address  her  bi-polar condition.  By  February  2020,  Applicant’s  co-habitation  relationship  with  her  ex-boyfriend had  deteriorated  to  the  breaking  point.  Looking  for  emotional  relief,  she  temporarily moved home to her mother’s place before finding her own apartment.  To  this point,  Applicant  had  not  encountered  any  domestic  violence  incidents  with  her boyfriend.  Police  reports  did  not  uncover  any  unreported  domestic  violence  incidents involving Applicant and her ex-boyfriend. GE 12; Tr. 129) In  October  2020,  Applicant  and  her  boyfriend  attended  a  wedding  reception  for his  sister.    Because  he  had  become  intoxicated  while  she  was sober,  she  drove  him  to  her  place  to  spend  the  evening.   Once they returned to her apartment, Applicant’s boyfriend initially positioned himself on the  couch.   After repairing  to  her bedroom  at Applicant’s  request,  he  emerged from the bedroom to mount an argument with Applicant over her not joining him in the bed.    Arguments  ensued  between  the  pair  and  quickly  escalated  into  heated verbal  exchanges  before turning  physical.    Applicant’s acknowledged loud yelling prompted some unknown person to call the police.  Police  accounts  confirm  arguments  between  Applicant  and  her  boyfriend  over their  sleeping  arrangements.    The  investigating  officer  recited  pushing  and shoving between the parties and Applicant’s clawing her boyfriend’s face after he struck her in the face.  Photos were taken of both parties, and the investigating officer reported several lacerations on her boyfriend’s face.  Asked  to  provide  a  complete  a  portion  of  the  domestic  violence  supplement diagram, Applicant declined.  While her boyfriend  provided some details of his 2020 encounter with Applicant, he, too, refused to provide a written statement.  Based  on  the  investigating  officer’s  findings,  police  filed  domestic  violence  charges against Applicant and closed the case. . Court records document criminal charges filed against Applicant in October 2020 for assault-second degree .  The case was nolle prossed in March 2021 without any assigned reasons. Neither police arrest reports nor court  records  reveal  any  changed  or  supplemental  accounts  provided  by  Applicant concerning the October 2020 domestic violence incident.   Whether Applicant’s boyfriend  declined  to  support  the  charges going  forward is unclear  as  well. Surprised  initially  of  criminal  charges  being  filed  against  her,  Applicant  first  learned  of the  police  charges  from  her  manager  who  she  had  contemporaneously  disclosed  the 4 incident  to  in  October  2020.    Applicant  herself  has  no  history  of  ever assaulting anyone.  Photos of Applicant taken at the scene of the October 2020 incident reveal deep bruises to her arms and face.  Applicant attributed the bruises to her boyfriend’s  aggressive  attacks  to  her  face  and  arms.    She  attributed  the deep scratches to his face to her efforts to repel his choking her with his hand over her mouth.    Asked  at  hearing  why  she  withheld  her  current  accounts  of  her boyfriend’s aggressive  actions when  questioned by investigating police, she expressed concerns about  his being on probation at the time and at risk of being sent to jail for any future arrests and charges and  his blaming her for any charges filed against him and taking retaliatory measures against her.  She terminated her  relationship  with  her  boyfriend  the  day  of  the  incident  and  has  taken  no  initiatives since the 2020 incident to resume one with him.  In none of her previous relationships was she ever assaulted by any of her boyfriends.  Since  the  October 2020  incident,  Applicant  has taken  concerted  steps to  address her emotional issues and  to  ensure she  never misses  court  notices  again.    She   has  a   coach   to   help  her  with   her  decision-making   and   is  looking   for  a counselor to  help  her with  her emotional-stress issues.  She  believes she  has matured  and  is better able  to  manage  her personal affairs.    She  has  a  pending petition  to  expunge  the  domestic violence  charge  against  her.     No further details are available on the status of her petition.  Endorsements and certificates of training and achievement Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  her  project  managers,  coworkers,  Navy  and  DoD contractor  customers,  parents,  friends,  and  managers  and  coworkers  of  former restaurant  employers.    All  credit  her  with  good  moral  character, strong work ethic,  honesty,  reliability,  and  professional  integrity.  Except for her mother who testified on her behalf, none of her character references expressed any knowledge of the Government’s security concerns.  Testifying  in her daughter’s behalf, Applicant’s mother  and close friend provided important  details  about  Applicant’s  mental  health  condition.  She  recited  that  in  the Spring of 2003, Applicant was medically diagnosed to have a bi-polar condition with an attention  deficit  disorder    sub-diagnosis.    Since  the  October 2020 incident, Applicant has retained a life coach  to help her with her coping  issues  while  she  and  her  mother  look  for  a  mental  health  provider  to  evaluate and treat her ADD and bi-polar conditions. Corroborated  by  Applicant’s  mother  and  close  personal  friend    were  the  stressors  Applicant  experienced  from  her  abusive relationship  with  her  ex-boyfriend.    These  stressors  exacerbated  her  ADD and bipolar conditions and contributed to the erratic behavior displayed by Applicant in her  cited 2007-2018 traffic-related incidents.   With  the  coaching  help  she  is currently  receiving,  her  mother  was  optimistic  of  Applicant’s  ability  to  succeed  in  a 5 structured environment at work, free of the stresses she encountered in her relationship with her ex-boyfriend.  Documented  performance  evaluations  for  calendar  years  2019  and  2020  credit Applicant  with  successfully  meeting  expectations.    The  evaluations credit  her  with  continued  growth,  and  acceptance  of  greater  responsibility.They underscore her positive pursuit of training and her gains in proficiency in a number of her employer’s technical processes.  