Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  configuration  management  specialist  for  a  defense contractor  who  seeks  a  security  clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  has  never  married  or  entered  into  a  legally  recognized  domestic partnership and has no children.  She earned a high school diploma in May 2001 and a bachelor’s degree in May 2005.  She reported no military service. 2 Since  May  2019,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  defense contractor.    Previously,  she  worked  for  other  defense  contractors  in  various jobs.  She reported unemployment between March 2019 and May 2019 following her termination for a cited positive drug test in March 2019.   Other  reported  periods  of  unemployment  by  Applicant  occurred  between February 2005 and May 2005 and between August 2001 and October 2001. She held a security clearance between November 2012 and March 2019.  Applicant’s drug history On  a  Sunday  afternoon  In  March  2019,  Applicant  spent  the  afternoon  at  her home with a male friend venting about events that were causing her emotional grief and distress:  a  recent  breakup  with  her  boyfriend  and  a  large  water  break  at  her  new townhouse residence that caused major damage and substantial repair costs.   This friend  was  not  a  coworker  but  a  contractor  at  her  work  site who would infrequently interact with her contractor friend over a three-month period.  Feeling drained and without much energy, she turned to her contractor friend for emotional support and assistance in painting her damaged townhouse.  This friend  offered her cocaine  to  relieve  her stress.    At  the  time, Applicant was aware that her contractor friend was a cocaine user.  Shocked to see this friend produce two lines of cocaine in her presence, she accepted the lines offered  her  by  her  friend  and  felt  immediate  remorse.    Both Applicant and her friend were sober in their moment of shared cocaine use.  With  a  security  clearance  she  possessed  since  2012,  Applicant  was  intimately familiar with the anti-drug policies in place with her employer and the DoD and the likely loss of both her job and security clearance in the event of a positive drug test.   Before  accepting  cocaine  from  her  friend  in  March  2019,  Applicant  had  never used any illegal drugs while holding a security clearance  that was first issued in 2012.  Waking up the next morning , and feeling the effects of her  cocaine  use  the  previous  day,  Applicant  went  to  work.    With  an opportunity to self-report her cocaine use incident to her facility clearance officer  when  she  arrived  at  work  that  day,  she  declined  to  do  so,  citing  concerns  about  her security  clearance  and  employer’s  termination  policy  covering  illegal  drug  use.    Applicant  acknowledged  her  employer’s  self-reporting requirement and expressed regret for not self-reporting the incident to her  FSO before being referred to drug testing.  Fearing the moment of accountability with her employer, Applicant waivered over self-reporting her cocaine  use to her  supervisor or   and  ultimately demurred.  By failing to promptly self-report her cocaine use  with the first opportunity available to  her when  she  reported  for  work  on  the  Monday  following  her  acceptance  of  cocaine,  she 3 missed a sizable opportunity to openly account for her judgment lapse and reinforce her understanding  and  appreciation  of  her  employer’s  anti-drug  policy.  Failing  to  promptly self-report  her  cocaine  use  incident,  she  opened  herself  to  candor  and  credibility challenges about her access to and use of illegal drugs in general. While  offloading  a  flatbed  at  work  the  following  Tuesday  , Applicant chose the wrong forklift for unloading, and her load fell off the forklift.   Applicant  promptly  reported  her  forklift  accident  to  her  supervisor  knowing she  would  be  referred  for  drug  testing  in  accordance  with  her  employer’s  accident protocols.  Once  Applicant  reported  her  forklift  accident,  her  supervisor  referred  her  to  the expected  drug  testing  Applicant  anticipated.  Once  faced  with  an  involuntary drug  test, Applicant  volunteered  to  the  testing  official  prior  to  submitting  to  a  drug  test  that  she could  be  at  risk  to  a  positive  test  result  due  to  the  cocaine  she  ingested  the  previous Sunday .  Returned  test  results  were  positive  for  cocaine  ingestion.  Applicant,  while embarrassed and ashamed, did not challenge the test results and was terminated from her employment the following Tuesday of March 2019.  Although  she  did  not  lose  her  security  clearance  with  her  job  termination,  she  is  not eligible for rehire.  And, as a result, she was able to obtain new employment with her current employer.  In  the  security  clearance  application  Applicant  completed  in  October  2019,  she acknowledged her not being compliant with her employer’s drug policy as the basis for her separation from the company without admitting her March 2019 cocaine use. When asked  about  her  prior  drug  use  in  a  separate  section  of  the  application  covering  drug use within the previous seven years, she acknowledged her cocaine use in 2019.  Before her positive drug test in March 2019, Applicant had never been subjected to  random  drug  testing;  although  her  employer  at  the  time  did  have  a  random  testing program.   Since  her positive  drug  test  in  March 2019,  Applicant  has twice  been  tested  for  illegal  drugs,  once  in  November  2020  to  satisfy  state  medical requirements  for  prescribed  Adderall  and  again  in  January  2021  on  the  suggestion  of her  attorney.    Non-randomized  test  results  were  negative  for illegal substances in her system.  In November 2020, Applicant assured under oath that she would abstain from all future  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  and  specifically  avoid  any  use  of cocaine or any other illegal drug in the future, and immediately report any future use of an illegal drug to her security officer. She acknowledged her understanding that should she violate her statement of intent, her security clearance  and accesses will be denied or revoked.  4 For the past 27 months, Applicant credibly assured that she has avoided cocaine and any other illegal drugs and disassociated from the friend who provided the cocaine to her in March 2019.  Her assurances are accepted. Applicant’s history of  alcohol-related incidents Besides Applicant’s reported 2019 cocaine use incident, she was involved in two separate  alcohol-related  incidents.  The  first  such  incident  occurred  in  July  2007  when she was arrested and charged with DUI.  Stressed by the passing of her maternal grandmother,  Applicant consumed  too  much  alcohol while  at a  friend’s home for  a  barbeque.    While  driving  home  from  the  barbeque,  she  was stopped  by a  police officer and  arrested  and charged  with  DUI.   Embarrassed  by  the  incident,  she  pre-enrolled  in  an  alcohol  and  substance  abuse program.  Appearing in court to answer the pending DUI charges stemming from her 2007 DUI  incident,  Applicant  pled  guilty  and  was  sentenced  to  probation  before  judgment. Probation  conditions  included  community  service  completion  of  her  already-enrolled substance abuse program. Applicant is credited with successfully  completing all of  the requirements  of  her  substance  abuse  program  and  satisfying  the  court’s  imposed probation conditions.  While  her  2008  security  clearance  application  was  still  pending,  Applicant  was involved in a second alcohol-related incident. Returning home in March 2012 from a St. Patrick’s  Day  celebration  with  friends,  where  she  consumed  multiple  drinks  before departing the tavern in the early morning hours, Applicant was stopped by a state police officer and arrested and charged with DUI.  At the time she was stopped and arrested in March 2012, Applicant held a security clearance.  Breathalyzer test results administered to Applicant by the arresting officer confirmed a blood-alcohol content  of .16%.  Applicant self- reported this incident to her FSO.  Before making her court appearance to address her 2012 DUI charges, Applicant enrolled  in  an  outpatient  alcoholic  substance  abuse  program  that  did  not  include  a diagnosis or abstinence  recommendation.   When  she did  appear for her scheduled August 2012 court hearing, she pled guilty to the charges in court and was  sentenced  to  15  days  in  jail  followed  by  two  years  of  supervised  probation  that included an ordered interlock installed on her vehicle. Her imposed sentence included a fine of $2,889 .  Applicant served 13 days of her imposed 2012 sentence before her early release for  good  behavior  and  made  monthly  payments  of  $112  to  repay  her  court-ordered fines.  She completed her alcoholic substance abuse program after attending regular classes between April 2012 and October 2012.  In October 2012, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator from the Office of Personnel  management    in  October  2012.  In  this  personal  subject  interview 5 , Applicant disclosed her alcohol history to the investigator.  Covered in her PSI  were  the  facts  surrounding  her  two  DUI  arrests,  court  dispositions,  and  her counseling sessions.  Between  2001  and  2012,  Applicant  typically  consumed  alcohol  in  social situations with friends and  acknowledged her drinking to the point of intoxication three to seven times a year in social events.   Since her 2012 DUI offense, Applicant never consumes alcohol to excess and  confines her drinking to social settings.   Based on the information and data compiled by OPM investigators  in 2012, Applicant was granted a security clearance.  Endorsements and certificates of training and achievement Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  her  supervisors,  colleagues,  customers,  and friends.    All  credit  her  with  good  character,  self-discipline, professionalism,  and  a  disposition  for  adhering  to  rules  and  regulations  at  work  while providing  daily  support  for  her  sister    and  her  parents.  While acknowledging their awareness of her drug and alcohol issues, two of her close friends expressed  confidence in  her ability to avoid  irresponsible  drinking and future lapses  in judgment that produced her isolated incident of cocaine use in 2019.  Other  friends  of  Applicant  who  hold  positions  of  trust  expressed  strong  support for  Applicant’s  maintaining  her  security  clearance  eligibility.  One  hearing  witness  is  a lifetime friend of Applicant with knowledge of her two past DUIs and 2019 cocaine use incident.  This  witness  credited  Applicant  with  exemplary  dedication  to  her  work  and family  and  expressed  confidence  in  Applicant’s  ability  to  maintain  a  healthy  regimen without any alcohol excess or use of illegal substances.  Another  friend  and  neighbor  of  Applicant’s,  with  daily  contact  over  the  past  two plus years, is a federal court commissioner with over 25 years of experience.  With  knowledge  of  Applicant’s  two  DUIs  and  2019  cocaine  use  incident,  she,  too, expressed  total  confidence  in  Applicant’s  ability  to  maintain  responsible  drinking  habits and keep her promises not to use or engage in any activities involving illegal drugs.  These hearing accounts represent strong character endorsements from individuals in  trust  positions  and  are  entitled  to  considerable  weight  in  making  whole-person character  assessments  of  Applicant.  Not  provided  by  Applicant  were  potentially  helpful accounts  of  direct  supervisors  and  coworkers  who  have  worked  closely  with  her  at  her current  and  previous  places  of  employment.  Performance  evaluations  from  her  current employer were not included in her exhibit submissions. Over  the  past  two  years,  Applicant  has  completed  courses  in  classification  and annual ethics training.  With her educational background and experience, she has received  offers  of  employment  from  defense  contractors  looking  for  configuration management  specialists.    Her  performance  and  contributions  to  her  current employer earned her a year-end bonus of $2,200 for 2020.  Her employer credited 6 her with being one of a select group of employees to receive a salary bonus for calendar year 2020.  