Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 50 years old. He married in 2005. He and his wife have a 15-year-old child. He served in the military from 1991 to 2015, when he retired. He has been employed by the same federal contractor since 2015. Applicant completed a security clearance application  in September 2018. He disclosed 11 delinquent debts. He noted that his debts were due to “income loss due to  job  change,”  referring  to  retiring  from  active  duty  and  his  income  decreasing.  His mortgage loan for rental property had been delinquent due to the tenants not paying their rent.  He  disclosed  the  mortgage  was  satisfied  in  December  2016  with  the  sale  of  the home after the renters were evicted. He fell behind on bills and prioritized paying some over others. Two debts to a military retail store were repaid through garnishment of his military retirement pay from 2015 to 2018. Other debts he noted he was “working to pay off debt once funds are available” and  two  he  had  paid  through  settlement.  Applicant’s admissions and credit reports from October 2018, December 2019, and November 2020 corroborate the debts alleged in the SOR.  The SOR alleges 17 delinquent debts that total approximately $82,224. Applicant attributed his financial problems to his inability to sell his house after he retired from the military  and  rented  it  until  the  tenants  stopped  paying  rent.  This,  combined  with  his reduction in income after leaving active duty, led to the financial delinquencies in the SOR. Following the eviction of the tenants and sale of the property, Applicant took a methodical approach toward resolving his outstanding debts.  In  Applicant’s  November 2020  email and  letter,  he  explained  that he  had  made great  progress  toward  resolving  his  delinquent  debts,  while  still  meeting  his  current obligations. He estimated having his debts resolved in the next six to eight months. He explained he has always paid his bills on time since he was a teenager. He streamlined his budget, reduced his expenses, contacted his creditors to negotiate payment plans he could  afford,  and  worked  a  second  job.  He  anticipated  being  debt-free  within  the  next year. He noted he had paid many debts and had eight remaining of which four were on payment plans, and would be fully paid in the next three months. The four remaining debts he was continuing to negotiate with the creditors, but he likely could only pay one at a 2 time so he could stay within his budget. He anticipated having all of these debts repaid in full by July 2021. After receiving the FORM in March 2021, Applicant did not provide any updated  documents  to  those  he  provided  in  May  2020  with  his  answer  to  the  SOR  to show he had continued to abide by his payment plans and resolved the remaining debts as noted below or that he had negotiated settlements for the remaining debts.  In December 2019, Applicant received an IRS Form 1099C, cancellation of debt for the account in SOR ¶ 1.a .  This debt is resolved. In  his  answer to  the  SOR, Applicant  stated  that he   is in communication  with  the creditors   and   negotiating   repayment  plans   for  the   debts  in  SOR  ¶¶   1.b   ,  1.c , 1.e  , and  1.i  .  Applicant  did  not provide  an  update  from  his May 2020  answer or November 2020  letter to  show  the  current status of  these  debts. These debts  are unresolved.  The  debt in  SOR ¶ 1.d   is a  collection  account.  Applicant stated he had a payment  arrangement with  the  creditor to  pay  $60  a  month. He  provided  a  document  with his answer showing  he  made  consistent monthly  payments from  July  2019  to  April 2020. He did not provide  an  updated  status of  any  payments made  beyond  then. He noted  in his answer that he  had a balance remaining of $1,274. The  debt is not resolved.  The debt in SOR ¶ 1.f  is a collection account. Applicant stated he had a payment arrangement with the creditor to pay $11.27 a month. He provided a document with his answer from May 2020 showing he started the payment plan in December 2018. The document shows a balance owed of $225 and the date future payments were due. Applicant  did  not  provide  additional  evidence  to  show  he  has  continued  to  make  the monthly payments. The debt is unresolved.  The debt in SOR ¶ 1.g  is a collection account. Applicant stated he had a payment plan with the creditor to pay $8.36 a month. He provided a document with his answer  from  May  2020  showing  he  started  the  payment  plan  in  December  2018.  The document  shows  a balance owed  of $167.27  and the date future payments were  due. Applicant  did  not  provide  additional  evidence  to  show  he  has  continued  to  make  the monthly payments. The debt is unresolved.  The debt in SOR ¶ 1.h  is a collection account. Applicant stated he had a payment plan with the creditor to pay $8.28 a month. He provided a document with his answer  from  May  2020  showing  he  started  the  payment  plan  in  December  2018.  The document  shows  a balance owed  of $165.69  and the date future payments were  due. Applicant  did  not  provide  additional  evidence  to  show  he  has  continued  to  make  the monthly payments. The debt is unresolved.  Applicant indicated in his SOR answer that the debts alleged in SOR ¶ 1.o , ¶ 1.p , ¶ 1.q,  were duplicates. Applicant’s credit 3 report from November 2020, December 2019, and October 2018 supports that these are duplicate debts.  Applicant provided documentation to show he has settled the collection accounts alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.j  ;  1.k  ;  1.l  ;  1.m  ;  and  1.n . . 