The   SOR  alleges  under  Guideline   E     and   cross-alleges  under Guideline J  that Applicant submitted  false time records to his then  employer from  about  September 2015 through January 2016,  claiming  1,035 in work hours that he had   not  performed   for  which  he   was  paid   $21,735.   Additionally,  under  Guideline   J Applicant allegedly  was arrested  in December 2004 for assault and  battery  ; in June  2007  for assault and  battery with a dangerous weapon ; in July 2010 on an outstanding bench warrant ; and in July 2013  for OUI . When Applicant responded to the SOR allegations, he admitted that he had made “a  dishonest  and  terrible  decision”  by  knowingly  charging  work  hours  after  he  had returned to college, and that he had committed the OUI offense in 2013, but asserted that he  had  learned  from  his  past  mistakes.  Applicant  denied  any  knowledge  of  a  bench warrant,  and  indicated  that  a  criminal  records  check  showed  no  arrest  from  2010.  He admitted  the  arrests  for  assault  and  battery  but  stated  that  the  2007  incident  was  “a complicated situation of false identification” and the 2004 charge was nothing more than a  verbal  altercation  with  his  mother  and  stepfather.  He  requested  that  he  be  given  a chance to show he can be trusted handling classified information. 2 After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following findings of fact. Applicant is a 32-year-old engineer. He has never married and has no children. A native of Nigeria, he moved to the United States in 2003 and became a naturalized U.S. citizen on his own application in February 2016. He earned an associate’s degree from a community college in May 2011, and began studies for a bachelor’s degree in September 2011. He eventually earned  his bachelor’s degree  in May 2018. He has worked  for his defense-contractor employer since October 2018.   On  December  27,  2004,  Applicant  had  an  altercation  with  his  stepfather  and mother because he refused to shovel snow. Applicant states that he had an interview for a part-time job and did not want to be late, but his stepfather and mother did not believe him. He denies that he hit either his mother or stepfather, but admits that “there was some yelling” ; that  the situation escalated; and that he had not  let his mother or stepfather know that he had an interview scheduled.  His stepfather called the police, and he was arrested for assault and battery.  Applicant testified that he did not recall the disposition of the charge, although he then added that he had to meet with someone in the juvenile court system and was on probation “for a couple of months or so or  maybe  a  year.”    No  police  or  court  records  were  submitted  in  evidence showing the circumstances that led to his arrest or the disposition of the charge. Applicant was arrested for assault and battery with a dangerous weapon on June 9,  2007.    No  police  or  court  records  were  submitted  in  evidence  showing  the circumstances that led to his arrest or the disposition of  the charge. Applicant testified that it was a case of racial targeting, and he was misidentified as the perpetrator.  He came upon the scene after an apparent assault, and the charge against him was dropped.  After high school, Applicant matriculated in a private college so that he could play soccer at the collegiate level. His mother complained about the expense , so he took a year off before studying for his associate’s degree at a community college from September 2008 to May 2011.  A  check of  criminal records  by the  Federal Bureau  of  Investigation    shows that  Applicant  was  arrested  on  July  20,  2010,  on  a  bench  warrant.    Applicant denies any recollection of the warrant or the arrest and ever knowingly failing to appear in court on any charge.  While Applicant apparently failed to timely register his vehicle in 2008 , there is no evidence linking his late registration to the  warrant.  No  police  or  court  records  were  submitted  in  evidence  showing  the circumstances that led to the arrest or the disposition of the charge. Applicant matriculated in his state’s university on  its main campus in September 2011. Through May 2013, he worked part time on campus in its financial aid office. At the end  of  the  spring  semester  in  2013,  he  had  an  internship  in  system  design  with  a telecommunications company.  3 the  equivalent  of  nearly On July 28, 2013, Applicant was stopped by campus police for speeding. He had consumed  one  can  of  “Four  Loko”  while  socializing  at  a  friend’s  house.   According  to  the  National  Institute  on  Alcohol  Abuse  and  Alcoholism,  “Four Loko”  is a fruity-flavored beverage that comes in 23.5 ounce cans and is about 12% alcohol. Each five  standard  alcoholic  drinks.  See can  contains http://www.spectrum.niaaa.nih.gov.  He  had  planned  to  stay  at  his  friend’s  home,  but circumstances  changed.  He  failed  a  field  sobriety  test,  and  a  couple  of  Adderall  pills, which Applicant submits belonged to a friend who had a prescription, were found in his vehicle.  Applicant was charged with possession of a class B drug, possession of a class E drug, OUI, negligent operation of a motor vehicle to endanger, speeding, and marked lanes violation.  Pursuant to a plea agreement, on April 2, 2014, the OUI charge was continued without a finding for ten months, and the other charges were dismissed. Applicant was placed on OUI supervision to February 2015 and ordered to pay costs, perform 82 hours of community service, and remain drug and alcohol free with random drug testing. He lost his driving privileges for 45 days.  Applicant was required to attend some Alcoholics Anonymous  and Mother’s Against Drunk Driving   meetings  to  regain  his  driving  privileges,  and  the  university  required  that  he receive some counseling.  He testified that he was deemed an alcoholic by the court , but there is no evidence substantiating such a diagnosis. He submits that he paid the consequences for his poor judgment to drive a vehicle while intoxicated and that he “learned a lot of lessons that [he holds] to this day.”  He now rarely drinks alcohol.  In   August  2014,  Applicant’s  internship  with   the   telecommunications  company ended.  He  was  kept  on   the   project  as  a   temporary   contract  data   engineer   under  the employment  of   a   consulting   company   that  paid   him   $21   per  hour.  At  the   end   of   each week,  Applicant  submitted   a   report  to   the   consulting   company   showing   the   number  of hours he  worked  on  the  project  that week, and  the  consulting  company  paid him  directly. The   consulting   company   then   invoiced   the   telecommunications  company   for the hours worked  by  Applicant.  Before any  payment by  the  telecommunications  company, the  hours worked   by   Applicant   had   to   be   approved   by   a   manager  at  the   telecommunications company.  At  the  end  of  the  semester  in  December  2014,  Applicant  was  on  academic probation and not allowed to continue in his engineering program.  He was advised  to  choose  another  major  course  of  study,  but  he  was  passionate  about engineering.  He withdrew from the university and enrolled in a community college to improve his grades so that he could pursue an engineering degree at another university within  the  state’s  system  of  higher  education.    He  continued  to  work  as  a contractor for the telecommunications company.  In  September  2015,  Applicant  transferred  to  another  campus  within  his  state’s university  system.  On  September  30,  2015,  the  telecommunications  company  ceased approving hours for Applicant, and he  stopped working on the project.  He was able to obtain one loan that did not fully cover his tuition and was not eligible for any additional subsidized or unsubsidized federal student loans.   Struggling financially at 4 the  time  and  “at  the  point in  [his] life  when  [he]  felt  age  was a  factor for [him]” with  respect to   finishing   his  education   and   starting   a   career  ,  Applicant  made   “a  bad decision” to  continue  to  submit weekly  reports  to  the  consulting  company, claiming  falsely that he  continued  to  provide  data  engineering  services for the  client telecommunications company   through   January   22,  2016.  Applicant  represented   to   the   consulting   company that  the  telecommunications  company  had  approved  his  hours. Based  on  those  reports, the  consulting  company  paid him  $21,735 for a  total of 1,035  hours that he did not  work.   Applicant used  the  unearned  income  to  pay  for his education and   living   expenses.    Applicant  realized   “after a   month   or halfway   through” that it was not a good idea to  submit  false time records, but he continued to  persist in  his fraudulent activity.   He understood  that it was “a dishonest and  disloyal act,” but he  needed  to  pay  for college. He had  a  payment deadline  to  the  university  or he  would be  dropped  from  classes.  His submission  of false  time  records  ceased when it was discovered.  Applicant began  working  as a  residential assistant at the  university  around  March 1, 2016. He  was transparent  about his OUI and  used  his experience  to  instruct  students about the  consequences of  drunk driving.  There is no  evidence  that he  was candid  with his university employer about his falsification  of  time records. On March 26, 2016, attorneys for the consulting company informed Applicant that the company had recently learned of his falsification of work records from October 1, 2015 through January 22, 2016, and that he was being terminated from his employment for his deceit. Through its legal counsel, the company demanded that he remit $21,735 by April 2016 or contact them before close of business on March 30, 2016, to discuss mutually agreeable  terms  of  repayment.   When  confronted  about  his  fraudulent  activity, Applicant had less than $1,000 remaining of the income he did not earn.  Facing  a  civil  lawsuit by  the  company    and  fearing  that he would  be   jailed   ,  Applicant   entered   into   a   confidential  settlement  agreement   in August 2016  under which  he was required  to  sign  an  agreement for judgment for $21,735 to  be  executed  if  he  defaulted  on  his repayment  terms.   The  consulting  company was “kind  enough” to  postpone  his repayment until  he   graduated  from  college.  Under the  settlement,  Applicant agreed  to   repay  $21,735  at $250  per month  from October  2018   through   December  2018;   $300   per  month   from   January   2019   through March 2019;  $350  per  month  from  April 2019  through  June  2019;  and  $500  per month from  July  2019  through  July  2022  with  a  final payment of  $535  due  on  August 1, 2022. Applicant  provided   documentation   of   his  timely   payments   through   November  2020 showing   that  he   had   paid  $10,535   with   $11,200   left   to   pay   under  the   settlement agreement.   He  testified  credibly  that  he  continued  to  make  his monthly  payments through   April  2021.     Applicant   did   not   challenge   the   $21,735   to   be   repaid because he knew he “was in the wrong.”  Applicant’s  campus  jobs  as  a  residential  assistant  and  as  an  information technology technician ended when he received his bachelor’s degree in May 2018. After 5 he graduated from college, he began working as an engineering contractor for a robotics company.  Applicant completed and certified a Questionnaire for National Security Positions  on July 19, 2018, seeking a security clearance to work on a military base. He indicated  that he  left his employment with  the  consulting company in January 2016 “by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct.” In response to police record  inquiries,  he  listed  the  charges  filed  against  him  in  July  2013.  About  the  drug charges, he explained that Adderall had been found in his vehicle; that the drug belonged to a friend who had a prescription and the charges were “removed” when the friend “gave a  sworn  statement.”  He  stated  with  respect  to  the  OUI,  “I  am  very  apologetic  and  I regretted my actions and I am thankful that there was no accident and nobody got hurt.”  On  October 1, 2018, Applicant  started  working  for his employer, who  is currently sponsoring him  for security clearance eligibility. He was not required to submit a  new SF 86.    Applicant  presently   earns   $74,000   annually   at  his  defense-contractor employment.   He has never held a  security  clearance  and works on  unclassified projects.  As  of  November  2020,  Applicant  had  one  revolving  charge  account  with  an outstanding balance. The  account  was  current  with  a balance  of  $196.  His  installment loan debt of $101,094 was for student loans.  He had $10,031 in a savings account.  Applicant acknowledges that “[he] made one too many bad decisions,” and submits that he has endeavored to be a law-abiding citizen since his falsification of time records from October 1, 2015 through January 22, 2016.  He is remorseful for his deceitful conduct and realizes that being financially pressed to pay for college does not justify his misconduct.  He plans on pursuing a master’s degree in the near future.  