In  answering  the  original  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.d.  He partially admitted and partially denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, and 1.e. He denied SOR ¶ 1.f. His  answers  to  each  allegation  included  explanations.  He  did  not  address  the  cross- allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a, but I incorporate his admissions, denials, and explanations to the  underlying  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  1,  accordingly.  Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  are incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 42 years old. He and his wife married in March 2019. They have no children.  He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2002. After a brief period of self- employment in 2003, he worked from September 2003 to September 2004 as a civilian engineer    for  a  Navy  command  in  a  state  far  from  his  home.  From  September 2004 to January 2013, he worked for a DOD agency, starting as an intern and rising to GS-14. Applicant then worked for a defense contractor until November 2015, when he was  laid  off.  He  was  then  unemployed  until  March  2016.  He  has  worked  for  various employers  in  the  defense  industry  since  March  2016,  and  has  worked  for  his  current employer since 2018.  He has held a security  clearance  since  about  2004.    He  most  recently submitted SCAs in October 2009 and December 2016.  He has an annual salary of $195,000.  In   September  2007,   Applicant   drove   to   a   town   in  a   neighboring   state   for  a   car show.  Before   returning   home   that   night,   he   stopped   at  a   restaurant   for  dinner  and drinks.  He  fell   asleep   at  the   wheel   while   driving   home   and   drove   into   a   ditch.   Police came  to  the  scene  and  he  was arrested  for DUI.  He spent  the  night in jail and   returned   home   the   next  morning      Applicant  testified   that  he did not recall  how  much  he  had  to  drink  that evening  because  it was so  long  ago.   Records  referenced   in  his  September  2019   psychological  evaluation   indicate   that “he had  four to  five beers and then  drove home” from the car show.   Applicant later went to court, and was offered a plea agreement under which he was to complete an alcohol education course, pay a fine, and serve a year of probation, after  which  the  case  would  be  dismissed.  Applicant  completed  the  alcohol  education 3 course near his home, completed probation successfully and the case was closed.  Applicant disclosed the offense to his DOD employer and on his 2009 SCA.  In  April  2010,  Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  speeding  on  his  way  home  from dinner at a restaurant. He was arrested and charged with DUI after a field sobriety test.   He  testified  that  he  pleaded  no  contest,  and  he  received probation before judgment , served one year of probation, and had to attend a six- week alcohol education course.  The  Government’s evidence  reflected  that he pleaded guilty, rather than no contest, though Applicant “distinctly” recalled it was the latter.    Applicant  believed  his  probation  ended  without  incident,  but was not specifically aware of how the case ended. He reported the offense to his DOD employer.  In July 2012, Applicant was driving home, past 11:00 p.m., after having dinner at a  restaurant.  While  driving  home,  he  noticed  a  car  tailing  him  and  following  his movements.  He  pulled  over  when  he  saw emergency  lights  in  his  rearview mirror.  He refused a field sobriety test and was taken into custody.  The police report reflects that the officer detected “a strong odor of alcohol emitting from [Applicant’s] person.” He also was  lethargic  and  showed  signs  of  slurred  speech.  He  took  a  breathalyzer  test  at  the police station, and registered a 0.13 blood alcohol content.  He was arrested and  charged  with  DUI,  and  some  traffic  offenses.    The  arresting  officer was a  military  policeman, and  the  road  where Applicant was stopped   was  evidently  near  to,   or  adjacent   to,  a   U.S.   military   base.  Applicant  testified that he   was  never “on   post” as   reflected   in   the   police   report.    Given   the location  of the  incident, Applicant  appeared  in  federal court,  where he  pleaded  guilty  to a  lesser charge  of reckless driving  and  fined  about  $500. The  various DUI charges and other traffic offenses were all  dismissed  and   judgments  of  acquittal were  entered.   Applicant informed  his DOD employer about the arrest.  In   September  2015,  Applicant   was  pulled   over  for  speeding   after  driving   home from   a   concert.  The   report  from   his  September  2019   psychological  evaluation  indicates that he  had  five  or six  beers at the  concert.  He was  arrested   by   state   police,   charged   with   DUI,   and   released.     Applicant testified   that  the   charge   was  ultimately   dismissed   when   the   arresting   officer  did  not appear  in  court.    He   said  he   voluntarily   enrolled   in  a   26- week adult education course on his lawyer’s advice.   He  self-reported the arrest to  his employer, a defense contractor.  In  October  2018,  on  his  last  day  of  work  with  his prior employer, Applicant  met some future co-workers at a restaurant for drinks and dinner. He was pulled over while driving  home.  He  refused  the  field  sobriety  test  and  was  taken  to  the  police  station, where  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  a  vehicle  while  impaired  by  alcohol   after  taking  a  breathalyzer  test.    He 4 acknowledged having more than one drink that evening.  He self-reported the arrest to his new employer.  In  January  2019,  Applicant  went  to  court  and  pleaded  guilty  to  DWI.  He  was sentenced  to  60  days  in  jail    and  fined  about  $800.  He  spent  10 days  in  a  weekend  work-release  program.  He  was  also  sentenced  to  18  months  of supervised  probation,  ordered  to  install  an  ignition  interlock  device  on  his  car,  and required to attend 26 weeks of alcohol-education classes and a Mothers Against Drunk Driving  panel.  Applicant completed the alcohol-education classes at a counseling center in June 2019.  The  evaluations  and  screening  assessments  he  received  “did  not  indicate  a substance  dependency  disorder.”    The  discharge  report  notes  Applicant’s motivated  and  positive  participation  in  the  program.  He  “acknowledged  the  need  for change  in  his  own  life,”  learned  about  the  impact  of  alcohol  abuse  on  himself  and  his family, and of strategies to make safer decisions in the future.  Applicant testified that his probation was abated after 12 months.  A  letter  from  Applicant’s  defense  attorney  from  the  case  noted  that  the  state  did  not provide  documentation  of  successful  completion  of  probation,  but  he  noted  that Applicant’s probation expired in July 2020.  During  the  course  of  his  2019  security  clearance  investigation,  Applicant  was ordered by the DOD Consolidated Adjudications Facility  to participate in a psychological  evaluation,  in  September  2019.    He  was  evaluated  by  a licensed clinical psychologist, Dr. B, who was asked to evaluate whether Applicant has “any  medical,  psychological,  psychiatric,  emotional,  or  substance  abuse  conditions which could impair his judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness[.]”  Dr.  B  diagnosed  Applicant  with  moderate  alcohol  use  disorder.    In detailing the basis for her opinion, she noted that: [Applicant] has a significant history of alcohol use, beginning in 2003, and he received 5 DUIs between 2007 and 2018. After each incident, he was required  to  complete  alcohol  abuse  classes,  however,  he  has  never enrolled  in an  intensive  substance abuse  treatment program.  Despite  his notable history of criminal conduct with alcohol, he has continued to drink. He does attend weekly AA meetings, yet he admitted that he still has not accepted his alcoholism.  This  was  based  upon  Dr.  B’s  review  of  Applicant’s  personal  and  social information,  educational  information,  medical  information,  substance  abuse  history, legal  and  mental  health  information  provided  by  the  DOD  CAF,  as  well  as  her  clinical observations,  a  clinical  interview,  and  his  psychological  test  results.    Dr.  B’s opinion is the basis for SOR ¶ 1.f. Dr. B concluded that 5 The  risk  of  future  alcohol-related  incidents  seems  moderate.  [Applicant] attends  regular  AA  meetings  and  feels  he  is  able  to  adequately  manage his  drinking;  however,  his  behavioral  health  history  and  current  lack  of concern  about  his  drinking  suggests  a  guarded  prognosis.  As  such,  his diagnosis could  pose a  risk  to  his judgment, reliability,  or trustworthiness concerning classified information.  Applicant  denied  being  terminated  from  employment  due  to  alcohol  issues  or poor  performance.    In  Dr.  B’s  report,  she  referenced  employment  records indicating  that  Applicant’s  termination  in  2015  was  due  to  such  issues,  but  she  also noted that Applicant denied this in interviews with her, as he did at hearing.  There is no corroborating documentation from the employer in the record on this issue, and it is not alleged that Applicant ever had employment issues related to alcohol, so I will not make such a conclusion. Dr.  B  also  noted  Applicant’s  historical  drinking  pattern.  She  found  that  between 2003 and 2010, he went on “‘drinking binges’ on a monthly basis, where he would drink “intermittently”  throughout  the  weekend.  From  2010  to  2015,  he  drank  mostly  on weekends often consuming 6-7 beers a night. Dr. B found that Applicant’s drinking had tapered  off  significantly  after  he  met  his  wife  ,  as  he  consumed  one  to  two drinks  on  weekends. From  October 2018  to January 2019, he abstained from  alcohol, but then resumed drinking again.  In March 2021, Applicant participated in another psychological evaluation, at the suggestion  of  his  attorney,  in  preparation  for  this  hearing.  He  was  evaluated  by  a licensed doctor of clinical psychology , Dr. W. ) Dr. W’s basis for her opinion was a review of background information, including Dr.  B’s  evaluation,  review  of  Applicant’s  personal  and  social  information,  educational information,  medical  and  mental  health  information,  substance  use  history,  and  legal information,  including  court  records  from  his  arrests  from  2010-2018,as  well  as  her clinical observations, a clinical interview, and his psychological test results.  Dr.  W  agreed  with  Dr.  B’s  findings  in  her  2019  evaluation.    Dr.  W noted  that  Applicant  had  significantly  reduced  his  use  of  alcohol  since  2019,  and  no longer engaged in binge drinking.  She found that he continued to meet the criteria for moderate  alcohol use disorder, though now in sustained remission. Dr. W’s prognosis for Applicant is guarded.  Dr. W’s report notes that Applicant consumed  six or more beers at his bachelor party, in February 2019, about a month  after pleading guilty in his most recent alcohol case.  He was on probation at the time but was not prohibited from consuming alcohol.  During his hearing, Applicant described his current alcohol usage as “pretty low.” He said he drinks at home with family members or close friends, about once or twice a month.    He  said  that  prior  to  his  2015  DUI,  he  would  drink  as  a  “social 6 lubricant.” He said his habits changed  in 2016, when  he  met the  woman  who  is now  his wife.  He   began   to   frequent   restaurants   less   often   and   engaged   in   more   couples   and family  activities that did not involve  alcohol.  He  said he  did not drink much  at all  during  2019  and  2020, but  for New  Year’s  Eve  .  He said when  he drinks,  he   has  one   or  two   drinks,  and   has   not  had   more   than   two   beers  since   his wedding in 2019.  Applicant testified  that the 2018  DUI was an “outlier, in that it was specifically to celebrate a promotion.” He acknowledged making  a “stupid decision” to drink and drive that  evening.    Applicant  acknowledged  that  alcohol  has  disrupted  his life.  He  wants  his  wife  and  family  to  see  him  as  a  role  model.  Applicant  also acknowledged health issues that he wants to improve. He knows that “alcohol has been a problem for me in the past, and I don’t want it to control my life.”  Applicant  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous    between  October  2018  and March 2020, when the COVID-19 pandemic led him to end social gatherings.  He was not aware that he could have attended online AA meetings rather than in-person meetings. He does not have an AA sponsor, and did not “work the steps” of  AA’s  12-step  program.    He  noted  to  Dr.  W  that  he intended to resume AA meetings when it is safe to do so .   Applicant also  testified that  his  wife  and  family members are  aware  of  his issues and are a good support network for him. He vowed never to drink and drive.  Applicant  asserted   several  times   during   the   hearing   that   he   had   been   using alcohol  as a  “social lubricant” but no  longer feels the  need  to  do  so  now  that he  has  met his  wife,  since   they   do   many   things  together  that  do   not  involve   alcohol.  He  also considers  his  2015   DUI  to   be   “a  wakeup   call”  that  led   him   to   decrease   his  alcohol intake.  Applicant  does  not  intend  to  increase  his  alcohol  intake  beyond  the  CDC’s recommendations  as noted  by  Dr.  W.  in  her  report,  and  Applicant  may  decrease  drinking  in  the  future.   He does not believe he will have trouble controlling his future alcohol intake.  Applicant provided a “Statement of Intent” regarding his future alcohol intake. He promised  never  to  abuse  alcohol  ;  to  use  alcohol responsibly ; and to never operate a vehicle after using alcohol. If he is found to have violated these terms, he consented to the automatic revocation of his clearance or eligibility for a position of trust.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  a  valid  driver’s  license,  but  that  it  has  an  alcohol restriction,  meaning  that  a  state  medical  evaluation  board  had  determined  that  “I shouldn’t  drive  with  any  alcohol  in  my  system.”  He  no  longer  has  an  ignition  interlock device on his car.  7 In  December  2019,  Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  speeding  while  driving  on  an interstate highway. He was driving 80 mph in a 65-mph zone. He said he had been out shopping with his wife. He acknowledged guilt by pre-paying the fine.  He said he  had  not  been  drinking,  and  noted  that  he  could  not  have  been,  since  the  ignition interlock  was  installed  in  his  car.    No  alcohol-related  charges  or citations are noted on GE 10, and this traffic offense is not alleged in the SOR. Applicant’s wife wrote a strong recommendation letter in support of her husband. He  is  supportive  and  loving.  He  has  been  an  excellent  caregiver  for  their  parents. During  the  pandemic,  she  has  observed  him  to  be  an  excellent  coach  and  guide  for other  workers  while  working  from  home.  He  is  a  diligent  worker.  They  had  serious conversations  after  his  2018  arrest,  which  made  her  “livid.”  She  attested  that  he  has significantly  curtailed  his  drinking  habits  after  his  2018  DWI,  and  is  now  more responsible. She believes he is a changed man and she recommends he maintain his clearance.  Several  other  work  references,  including  supervisors,  peers,  and  friends,  also wrote letters of recommendation in support of his eligibility for a clearance. They regard Applicant as trustworthy and of good character. He is committed to country, family, and friends. He is hard-working and dedicated, and follows rules and regulations.  