Applicant is a 40-year-old married man. He graduated from college in 2003, earning a degree in criminal justice. He has been working as a background investigator since 2005, and  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  2010.    He  completed  his most  recent security clearance application in 2015, and failed to disclose any derogatory information. The background investigation revealed that Applicant experienced a series of financial problems  and  multiple  work-related  disciplinary  actions.  These  issues  as  well  as Applicant’s failure to disclose them on his security clearance application form the basis of the SOR allegations. Financial Concerns Applicant  purchased  a  home  in  2009.    He  was  not  particularly knowledgeable about financial management.  Consequently, he fell  behind on his mortgage  payments.  Ultimately,  he  began  to  fall  behind  on  both  consumer  debts  and federal  income  tax  debts  for  tax  years  2011  to  2013.   Subsequently,  Applicant  obtained  a  mortgage  loan  modification.  As  of  July  2019,  his mortgage payments were current.  The SOR alleged Applicant owes $2,785 on four delinquent accounts. Applicant owes $1,067 for the account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. In March 2021, he negotiated payment plan with the creditor and made the first payment on March 23, 2021. Applicant owes $867 on a store credit card alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. He paid the debt and the account has since been removed from his credit report. The SOR alleged in ¶ 1.c. that Applicant owed $417 on a delinquent credit card. He satisfied this debt in March 2021. The SOR also alleges that Applicant owed $434 on another store credit card account. In addition to the consumer credit accounts, Applicant also owes $15,288 in federal income  taxes.  He  fell  behind  because  he  incorrectly  filed  his  tax  return  as  a  1099 contractor.   In July 2018, the IRS garnished  Applicant’s wages to collect this income tax delinquency, which is from tax years 2011 to 2013, as alleged in subparagraph 1.e.   After reaching a payment agreement with the IRS, 2 the Agency agreed to terminate the garnishment.   Applicant has been paying the delinquency through an installment agreement since then.  The current balance of the Applicant’s federal tax liability is unknown from the record. However, as of March 2021, Applicant was one month behind on payments.  Work Performance Issues Applicant has worked for federal contracting companies since 2005.  Between 2008 and 2010, Applicant was employed by Company A, as a background investigator. In 2010, Applicant started a business doing security clearance background investigations. From 2010 to 2016, he worked as an independent contractor to Companies B, C, and D, on contracts with OPM and other federal agencies. Applicant closed his business in 2016 and went to work for Company E as a personnel security specialist from 2017 to 2018. During  the  two  years  that  Applicant  worked  with  Company  A,  he,  received  four written  warnings  about  his  poor  work  performance.  He  signed  one  of  the  warnings  in February  2009,  certifying  that  he  received  it,  and  he  prepared  a  response  that  was incorporated into his personnel file with the warning.   Similarly, he signed a warning that he received in May 2009.  In or around August 2010, he was fired from  a  company  for  unsatisfactory  performance,  as  alleged  in  subparagraph  2.e. Applicant’s multiple reprimands at Company A led to his dismissal in 2010. After being dismissed from Company A in 2010, he began working with Company B as an independent contractor.   He was fired in November 2011 “because of poor  performance/timeliness/quality  and  communication in subparagraph 2.f.  issues,”  as  alleged Applicant began  working  in an  independent contractor status  with  Company  C in 2011. In  or around  February  2012, Company  C  reprimanded  Applicant for failing  to  protect personally  identifiable information   after leaving  sensitive  materials  at  a  courthouse,  as alleged  in subparagraph  2.g.   In  2015, Company  C suspended  him  and moved  to  terminate  his contract for transmitting  case  reports without making  requested revisions,  failing   to   obtain  and   report  issue   information,  neglecting   to   follow   up   on information  supplied  in case  papers,  failing  to  report  items  pertaining  to  subject  re-contacts, and   falsely   reporting   that  he   had   contacted   a   subject   when   he   had   not,   as  alleged   in subparagraph   2.p.   After Applicant’s  suspension,  he   failed   to cooperate  with  efforts to  retrieve  his work materials, prompting  his employer to  contact the U.S. Office of  Personnel Management’s Integrity  Assurance  branch  .  Ultimately, Applicant’s mishandling  of  his case  load  prompted  OPM  to  conduct an  audit of his cases.  Applicant  began  working with  as  an  independent  contractor with  Company D in 2011. . In or around 2014, Company D terminated Applicant’s services,  as alleged in subparagraph 2.h because the quality of his work was poor and not completed on time.  3 In 2017, Applicant began working for Company E as a personal security specialist.   Subparagraph  2.s  alleges  that  Applicant’s  then-employer  issued  him  a written warning for failing to comply with requests for information relating to income tax issues  he  was  having  at  the  time.  The  record  contains  evidence  of  e-mail  between Applicant and his employer regarding a request for documentation.  The e-mail correspondence  does  not  specify  the  documentation  sought,  nor  does  it  contain  any warnings.  Applicant’s  stint  at  this  company  was  troubled.  According  to  Company  E’s president, “the functions [Applicant was] asked to perform [were] very basic and that [he] still struggled[d] with them, both in terms of speed and accuracy.”  Ultimately, In November 2018, Applicant’s employer dismissed him, as alleged in subparagraph 2.t. Applicant began performing contract work for Company B again in August 2017.   In  May  2018,  Company  B  terminated  his  contract  for  failing  to  complete required training.  as alleged in subparagraph 2.r.  There is no record evidence setting forth the reason for the termination. Security Clearance Suspension The SOR alleges in  SOR ¶ 1.f, that in 2006, Applicant’s security clearance eligibility was suspended for failure to pay a phone bill timely..  The record contains no additional evidence about the circumstances surrounding the suspension. 2015 Security Clearance Application Omissions Applicant completed a security clearance application in 2015.   He did not disclose the written warning, while working for Company C, for failing to protect PII that he received in February 2012 on his security clearance, as required. The SOR alleges that this omission constitutes a falsification, as alleged in subparagraph 2.i, and that subsequent failures to disclose this information during subject interviews in 2015 and 2020 constitute intentional omissions, as alleged in subparagraphs 2.n and 2.u, respectively. Applicant contends that these omissions were unintentional oversights.  Applicant failed to list on the 2015 security clearance application the company where he  worked  between  2010  and  2011.  SOR  subparagraph  2.j  alleges  that  this omission constituted  an  intentional  falsification.  SOR  subparagraphs  2.m  and  2.u  allege  that Applicant’s subsequent omission of this job during subject interviews in 2015 and 2020 constitute  intentional  omissions.  Applicant  contends  that  although  he  worked  for  this company  in  2018,  he  did  not  work  for  it  before  completing  the  security  clearance application,  contrary  to  the  SOR  allegation.    The  facility  security  officer confirmed  that  Applicant  worked  at  this company for two periods. The first period was before the completion of the security clearance application.  Applicant’s second stint with this employer in 2018 led to his termination for failing to complete training, as alleged in subparagraph 2.r.  4 In addition to alleging that Applicant intentionally omitted the job where he worked between 2010 and 2011, SOR  subparagraph 2.j alleges that Applicant intentionally failed to disclose the company that fired him in 2014 on his 2015 security clearance application. Applicant contends in his answer that this omission was an unintentional oversight. SOR subparagraphs 2.m and 2.o allege that  Applicant did not disclose the jobs where  he  was  terminated,  respectively  in  2011  and  2014,  during  successive  subject interviews in 2015 and 2020. Applicant received copies of both subject interviews after completing them. He had the opportunity to review both investigator summaries, and make any additions. Applicant certified that he read both investigator summaries.  Neither report indicates that he disclosed these terminations. Subparagraph  2.k  alleges  that  Applicant,  when  completing  the  2015  security clearance application, falsely characterized the reason for leaving the company where he was dismissed in 2010, as for career advancement, and subparagraph 2.l alleges that he failed to disclose the multiple disciplinary measures and written warnings that he received before his termination.  During an investigative interview in 2015, he clarified the nature of his departure.  Applicant also discussed at length his contentious relationship with management, how he disagreed with the disciplinary measures that they imposed, and how this contentious relationship led to his decision to file a wrongful termination claim after his dismissal.  In Applicant’s answer, he indicated that he did not recall being terminated from this company.  SOR subparagraph 2.k alleges that the mischaracterization of his termination on the security clearance application and subsequent investigative interviews in 2015 and 2020, constitute falsifications, as alleged in subparagraphs 2.l and 2.u. During an investigative interview in 2015, Applicant disclosed this information “prior to . . . being confronted with [the]  developed  employment  record.  .  .  .  .”    He  also  discussed  the circumstances surrounding his termination, including the company’s contentions regarding his  incompetent  performance,  together  with  the  wrongful  termination  lawsuit  he  filed against the company after he was terminated.  In  May  2018,  Applicant’s  then-employer  terminated  his  contract,  as  alleged  in subparagraph 2.r.  There is no record evidence setting forth the reason for the termination. Subparagraph  2.s  alleges  that  Applicant’s  then-employer  issued  him  a  written warning for failing to comply with requests for information relating to income tax issues he was having at the time. The record contains evidence of e-mail between Applicant and his employer regarding a request for documentation.  The e-mail correspondence does not specify the documentation sought, nor does it contain any warnings. The e-mail correspondence set forth in GE 5 does reference Applicant’s poor work performance. Specifically, on July 2, 2018, the company president wrote the following: 5 . . . I’ve  been  repeatedly  told that the  function  you  are asked  to  perform  are very  basic and  that you  still  struggle with  them, both  in terms of speed and accuracy. I don’t think they  can  make  the  job  any  more basic than  it is.  Four months later, Applicant’s employer fired him for poor performance, as alleged in SOR subparagraph 2.t.  