After  a  thorough  review  of  the  testimony,  pleadings,  and  exhibits,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant is 54  years old and  is working  as a  subcontractor procurer  for a  defense contractor. He  is seeking  to  maintain  a  clearance. He was married from  December 1994 through  September 2010.  He  pays $1,000  a  month  child  support  for his two  daughters ages 16  and  13.  He is current on  his support  payments. He pays $500 monthly  for his children’s schooling, which is  his half of  the  monthly  $1,000  tuition.  In  the  past two  years, he  paid $4,000  for his oldest daughter’s braces and  pays $137 monthly for his younger daughter’s braces.  Applicant  has  a   commendable  military   record.  Applicant   is  a   major    in  the state  Army  National Guard as an  assistant  operations  officer.   He served  on active   duty   from   April  1990   through   July   1993.  He  was  deployed   to   Kuwait  from   June 2017   to   March 2018. He  was  deployed   to   Iraq   and   also   deployed  to   Afghanistan  from March 2011  through  April 2012.  In  early  2021,  he  received  his 20-year letter entitling  him  to  an  Army  retirement  at the  appropriate  time.  From  1997  to  2000, he   worked   as  a   police   officer.    He   has   received   a   Bronze   Star,  two   Army Commendation  Medals, an Army  Achievement Medal, an  Afghanistan  Campaign  Medal with  two  campaign  stars, an  Iraq  Campaign  Medal with  two  campaign  stars, a state  Medal of  Merit,  a state  Faithful Service Medal,  and  a state  Federal  Service Medal , and various other awards and decorations.  Applicant  had a  one-year contract for employment  with  a  company.  He  left  that company in September 2016 and in October 2016 started pre-deployment training for the deployment  to  Kuwait.    The  pre-deployment  amounted  to  approximately  two weeks of pay per month.  2 Applicant worked for a DoD contractor from December 2004 to October 2012, at which time he was laid off. Prior to his deployment to Afghanistan he was working for his current  employer.  In  April  2012,  when  he  returned  from  the  deployment  he  was  again hired by his current employer.  However, although rehired, he had no job, no desk, no computer just an empty cubicle. He was told he could be someone else’s assistant, which was disappointing because he had eight years’ experience doing the job.  He  bought  his  concerns  to  his  senior  manager,  who  was  supportive,  and  told  him  the company had future plans for him. From  April 2012  to  October 2012, Applicant worked  for his current DoD contractor but lacked  job  satisfaction  because  he  was assigned  no  duties  and  had  nothing  to  do.  He filed  a  complaint and  his employer said they  were  giving  him  a  paycheck and  did not  understand   the   problem.  At  that  point,  he   left  the   company,  which  was  called   a voluntary  layoff.  He then  attended  a  bartending  academy  and  took some  full-time and  part-time  jobs  as  a  bartender.  He  had  some  full-time  employment  with  the  National Guard.  He  obtained   some   Active   Duty   Operational  Support     orders,  which  are special orders for tours lasting  from  six  months to  a  year.  From  November 2012 through   October  2016,  he   was  an   Operations  Officer  working   at  the   National  Guard Reserves Headquarters for an engineering brigade.  In  June  2015,  when  there  was  no  additional  Guard  duty  available,  Applicant obtained a full-time job that lasted three or four months.  That job paid $40,000 a year. At that time he received a subpoena for back child support.  It was at this time  he  started  using  his  credit  cards  for  living  expenses.  From  February  2016  to September 2016, he was hired by a company for a limited time contract.  Applicant was unemployed from 2013 to 2016.  In May 2018, he returned to a position in the procurement of subcontractors with his previous DoD contractor.  In addition to his DoD contractor pay, he receives monthly pay for the National Guard time he performs.  Applicant  had  two  charged-off  debts:  a  $25,777  credit  union  debt,  which  he admitted  owing  and  a  $7,936  Ford  Motor  Credit  Corporation    debt  due  to  a repossessed truck.  He denied the FMCC debt in his SOR response. He disputes the amount the creditor says is owed following the repossession.  The last payment he made on the credit union debt was in 2016 or 2017 when he deployed to Kuwait.  These are the only two delinquent accounts he has.  Applicant  listed  both  delinquent  obligations  when  he  completed  his  May  2017, Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing.  He was questioned about these debts during an October 2018 Enhanced Subject Interview.  He stated he was making payment on his credit union debt as he was able. No documentation of any payment was provided during or after the hearing. In his May 2020 response to written interrogatories  he  indicated  he  had  talked  to  the  collection  service  for  the  credit  union debt and informed them he would “coordinate a payback plan as soon as  [he] had paid off other credit card debts.”  As of May 2020, his monthly net remainder  was $1,163.  3 In 2015 or 2016, Applicant started getting behind on his payments. In 2016, his car and his truck were repossessed, and he had to go to court due to unpaid child support.  Applicant  had  two  to  three  years  when  he  was  unemployed  or  underemployed following his time with a DoD contractor. The income during this time was less than he earned on military deployments.  During this period, he was living off his credit cards  and  accumulated  a  good deal of  debt. He  used all available  credit  on  the  credit cards.  In 2016, he had to use his credit card to pay a $4,000 child support debt.  On his May 2017 e-QIP he indicated he was $7,000 behind on his child support payments for the period of January 2015 through July 2015.  He has since brought his child support payments current. He stated: I  had  to  use  credit  cards  to  pay  for  rent,  the  auto  loan,  sometimes  the groceries, utilities. Everything I could where I couldn’t make up for it up with what I was earning. My paychecks I earned with other jobs were about half of what I was making.  In  addition  to  Applicant’s credit union  debt, he  incurred  an  American  Express card debt. He also had  another bank credit card, which was locked  in 2017  by  the  creditor  for being  behind  on  his payments.   He believes he  owes approximately  $2,400  on  the bank credit card account down  from  a  balance  of  $9,000.  For six months in 2018  and  2019, he  made  $500  a  month  payments on  this credit card debt.   This  bank  credit  card is the  only  card that he uses, but  he  is  making  payment on  two other  credit  cards  and  intended  to  initiate  a  repayment  plan  on  the  credit union  account.  He has approximately $1,000 in  his savings account and $1,000  on  his debit card.  His bank account sometimes dips to  $1,000 and  has recently been as high as $5,000.  The  account balance  varies depending  on  how much  training  he  is doing with the National Guard. In October 2014, Applicant leased for 36 months a 2013 F150 pickup truck when he returned from his deployment to Afghanistan.  The original balance on the lease was $19,183.  His monthly truck payment was $400. He was current on his monthly payment  through  March  2016.    He  was  unable  to  continue  making  his monthly  payments,  and  in  September  2016,  the  truck  was  repossessed  after  three months of nonpayment.  He attempted to work with the Ford Motor Credit. He wanted to voluntarily return the vehicle and the creditor stated that if he did so it would still be considered a repossession, and he would be responsible for paying the balance on the loan.  The truck was repossessed, sold, and Applicant was required to pay the creditor the balance owed on the truck.  Following  the  resale  of  the  vehicle,  Applicant  received  one  or  two  letters demanding payment on  the balance of the loan. He asserts he has not heard  recently from Ford Motor Credit.  He asserts he received no follow-up letters, no telephone calls,  and  no  emails  following  the  initial  letters  demanding  payment.  He  has  made  no progress on the repossession debt and has had no contact with the creditor.  He 4 intended to address his other debts before addressing the repossession debt. The truck repossession was the only vehicle repossession he has ever had.  At the hearing Applicant stated as to the vehicle repossession debt: I have no idea what to do with [that]. I’ll probably make, you know, take the initiative and contact Ford and see where it is and where they’ve rolled that debt off  to  or who’s purchased  that  debt.  I have  no  idea  where  that  debt resides right now . . . and no one’s ever contacted me about that the Ford Motor Credit debt since I bought it in 2016.  Applicant has been in contact with the credit union. He was deployed to Kuwait from June 2017 to 2018. After returning from deployment and returning to his work with the DoD contractor, he was in a position to stabilize his debt.  The day before the hearing,  he  contacted the  law firm collecting the  credit  card debt  and  asserted  he has established a repayment plan. The plan requires him to pay $100 per month, which he intends to raise to $250 per month next year.  Applicant acknowledged the credit union debt and stated: I should have, admittedly, I admit, I  should have  approached  and  worked out something  with  the  [ ] credit union  earlier.  I really  didn’t want to  do  it. I wanted  to  just  table that.  It  wasn’t going  anywhere. We  weren’t making  any contact but through phone  and email and letters.  Applicant asserted he told the credit union that as soon as he had other debts paid off, he “would shift to that one.”  However, his intention was to simply let it sit. The debt was not going anywhere and he would “chip away at that when [he] could.”  He said he had maintained contact with the collection agency  on behalf of  the creditor reminding him about the debt.  He received calls from the creditor concerning the debt following his deployment to Kuwait.  Applicant asserts he had good credit and timely paid his debts until his divorce and period  of  unemployment.  The  divorce  required  him  to  “take  on  a  lot  of  additional  debt when we split up.”  