Applicant,  57,  has  owned  one-third  of  a  small  limited  liability  corporation   federal  contracting  company  since  2002.  The  LLC  holds  a  facility  clearance  and Applicant serves as the assistant facility security manager.  Initially, Applicant worked as an  employee  of  the  LLC,  but  since  2005,  he  has  worked  as  an  independent subcontractor to the LLC. He performs work as a sub-subcontractor through the LLC for larger federal contracting companies. He has worked on his current contract since 2015.  Applicant  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  1998.  He  completed  his  most recent  security clearance  application  in October 2018, disclosing  financial  problems  to include:  failure  to  pay  state  and  federal  income  taxes  for  multiple  years;  a  federal  tax lien; and a 2018 home foreclosure. The SOR alleges that that Applicant owes $84,749 on a  charged-off mortgage loan ; that he lost a home to foreclosure in 2018 ; that he has a $1,015 past-due balance on a credit card ; that he has three outstanding state tax liens, totaling over $105,000 ; and that  he  owes  over  $315,000  in  outstanding  federal  incomes  taxes,  including  a  lien  for $145,920 .  Applicant  began to  experience  financial  problems  after  his  marriage in September 2006. To appease his wife, Applicant  testified  that  the couple purchased a home  they  could  not  afford.  In  addition,  their  son  required  education  at  a  specialized school.  When  the  couple  first  married,  Applicant’s  wife  owned  a  small  federal contracting business. Together, the couple enjoyed a joint income over $400,000.  The couple  used  the  same  accountant  to  handle  their  separate  business  and  their  joint finances.  According  to  Applicant,  the  accountant  advised  them  about  their  respective estimated  income  tax  obligations  based  on  the  income  earned  from  their  respective businesses.  Applicant’s  wife  handled  making  the  estimated  tax  payments  for  both businesses as well as the household bills, while Applicant maintained responsibility for the mortgage on the marital home.  From  at  least  2010  to  2015,  the  couple  filed  their  federal  and  state  income  tax returns  using  the  ‘married  filing  jointly’  status.  For  the  2010  and  2011  tax  years,  the couple did not make any estimated tax payments, but did report W-2 withholdings. They satisfied their additional tax liabilities through a series of payments. In 2012 and 2013, 2 the couple did not  make estimated  payments or withhold income taxes from their pay. The couple resolved the 2013 tax liability through payments, but they did not make any payments on the 2012 liability. In 2015, the IRS issued a lien against the couple for the $145,925  tax  liability  for  the  2012  tax  year.    For  reasons  that  are  unclear from the record, the IRS wrote off the entire balance in April 2019.  In  2014,  the  couple  began  making  estimated  tax  payments.  That  year,  the estimated  tax  payments  exceeded  their  tax  obligations.  In  2015,  despite  their  W-2 withholdings and estimated tax payments, the couple still owed additional federal taxes. The  couple  amended  their  2015  income  tax  return  twice  and  submitted  an  Offer  in Compromise for the outstanding balance. In response, the IRS reduced the couple’s tax liability  obligation  and  then  wrote  off  the  remaining  balance,  satisfying  their  tax obligation for the 2015 tax year.  As  the   marriage   deteriorated,  Applicant’s   financial  problems   worsened.  For  the 2016   and   the   2017   tax   years,   Applicant  filed   his  federal  income   tax   returns  using   the ‘married   filing   separately’  status,  which  allowed   him   to   pay   income   taxes  only   on   his income. Using  that status also made  him  solely  responsible  for any  resulting  federal tax liability. For the  2016  tax  year, he paid $64,500  in estimated  taxes.  After reviewing  the return, the IRS assessed Applicant an additional $29,910 in  federal  income  tax. The IRS applied  an  overpayment from  2018  to  the  2016  tax  liability, resulting  a  $76,742  balance.   In  April 2017, Applicant’s estranged  wife  barred  him  from  the  marital home, requiring   Applicant  to   secure  new   housing.  In   addition   to   paying   his  living   expenses, Applicant  agreed   to   pay   his  estranged   wife   $7,500   each   month   in  undifferentiated support  for   herself   and   their   child.   That  year  Applicant   paid   just   $24,000   in   estimated taxes. This amount only  covered  the  interest  and  penalties  on  the   $88,087  tax  liability.    In   addition   to   the   federal  tax   issues,  Applicant  and   his  wife   had   state   tax issues. Their  state  of  residence  filed  three  tax  liens against  them  in  June  2016  ,  January  2018  , and  in October 2018  , respectively.  Applicant’s  separation  caused  other  financial  problems.  Under  the  terms  of  the couple’s  separation  agreement,  Applicant’s  estranged  wife  retained  possession  of  the martial home. Applicant mistakenly believed that his wife was responsible for paying the mortgage  and  line  of  credit  on  the  home.  However,  the  separation  order  required Applicant  retain  responsibility  for  the  payment  of  the  mortgage,  line  of  credit,  or  other liens placed on the marital home. Neither party paid the mortgage, resulting in a 2018 home  foreclosure.    Although  the  foreclosure  sale  satisfied  the  balance  on the primary mortgage, it  did not cover the $84,749  balance of  the line  of  credit on the home.  Applicant settled the line of credit in July 2021 for $9,500. Applicant also  had  a  credit  card  with  a  past-due  balance  of  $1,015,  but  that  account  is  now current.  In  late  2017, Applicant  retained  a  lawyer to  help him  resolve  his state  and  federal tax   issues.  Applicant  resolved   the   June   2016   state   tax   lien    through a payment plan  in  April 2020.  He resolved  the  January  2018  state  tax  lien   in  April 2021.  Although  Applicant  did   not  provide   a   copy   of  the   lien release   for  the   lien   alleged   in  SOR  ¶   1.d   ,  a   May   2021   letter  from   his  tax attorney   represented   that  Applicant  satisfied   all   outstanding   state   tax   liabilities   as  of April  2021.   Even   though   the   state   tax   liens  were  issued   jointly,  Applicant   resolved   the liens  without  help   from   his   ex-wife.   However,  Applicant’s  2016   and   2017   federal  tax liabilities, totaling  $169,821, remain unpaid.  In   a   May   2021   letter, Applicant’s  tax   attorney   provided   the   status   of   Applicant’s federal and state income  tax obligations: The  first  step  in  resolving  a  tax  debt  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service   and  the  [state  comptroller]  requires  the  taxpayer  to  be  in  tax compliance. To be considered in "tax compliance" all tax filings need to be timely filed and there are adequate tax withholdings and/or estimated tax payments  to  cover  the  current  years  tax.  [Applicant]  is  in  current  tax compliance and has been since 2018. [Applicant’s] tax debts are for years 2017 and prior. When  a  taxpayer  cannot  fully  pay  a  tax  debt,  the  IRS  allows  collection alternatives such as a payment plan or an offer in compromise. We have been  diligently  contacting  the  IRS  to  obtain  a  collection  alternative  for [Applicant] without success. [Applicant’s] file remains in a queue waiting to be  assigned  to  an  IRS  Revenue  Officer  . While in this pending status, the IRS will not negotiate a  collection  alternative.  This  extraordinary  delay  is  likely  a  result  of reduced  IRS  employment  levels  and  the  pandemic.  We  stand  ready  for when [Applicant’s] matter is assigned to a Revenue Officer.  In a June 2021 update, Applicant’s attorney further explained: Unfortunately,  in  [Applicant’s]  case  ,  the  case cannot be resolved until the matter has been assigned to a revenue officer.   On  [Applicant’s]  behalf,  we have  been  diligently  attempting  to  resolve  this  case  and  have  the  matter assigned  to  a  revenue  officer;  however,  assignment  of  cases  to  revenue officers  is  within  the  sound  discretion  of  the  Internal  Revenue  Service, based on factors such as need, staffing, and others. In the past few years, due  to  these  factors,  it  has  taken  months  and,  sometimes,  years  for assignment  of  a  case  to  a  revenue  officer.  We  cannot  compel  a  revenue officer to immediately review his matter and resolve these issues - as much as we wish we could. When  [Applicant’s] case  is ultimately  assigned  to  a  revenue  officer, we  will negotiate   a   collection   alternative      with   the   Internal  Revenue   Service  to   finally 4 resolve  these  issues.  We  are  ready,  willing,  and  able  to  do  that  upon contact from the Internal Revenue Service. I can reiterate that [Applicant] is responsive,  understands  the  gravity  of  the  situation,  and  seeks  to  resolve these  issues  as  soon  as  possible.  I  would  be  happy  to  provide  an  update when we receive further contact from the Internal Revenue Service.  