Applicant  admitted to  the  allegations  in  SOR ¶¶  1.a,  through 1.c.  It is unclear if Applicant  admitted  or  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  allegation  ¶  2.a.,  which  makes reference  to  and  subsumes  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  through  1.c.  I  consider  it  a  denial.  After  a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 49-year-old employee of a defense contractor.   He  has  been  employed  with  defense contractors since 2004. He has held a security clearance  since March of 2005.   He is married, and has one adopted child, age 13.  Guideline K - Handling Protected Information  & Guideline E  - Personal Conduct 1.c.  and  2.a. Applicant  admits that in  2008,  while working  for a  different employer from   his  current   employer,  he   “cut   corners”   and   sent   an   email   containing   classified information   to   co-workers  on   an   unclassified   network.  Applicant   received   a   written warning  as a  result of  this security  clearance  violation.   I find  his actions to be  deliberate. 1.b.  and   2.a.  Applicant  admits  that  in  2013,  while   working   for  his  current employer, he  again sent an  email  containing  classified  information  to  co-workers on  an unclassified   network. Applicant  sent   unclassified   information   that,  when   combined   with other   unclassified   information   he   sent,  became   classified.  Applicant  received   a   verbal reprimand  as  a  result of  this security  clearance  violation.  I find  his actions to  be negligent. 1.a.  and  2.a.  Applicant  admits  that  in  2017,  while  working  for  his  current employer,  he  sent  a  third  email  containing  classified  information  to  co-workers  on  an unclassified network. Applicant avers this to be a systemic problem with his employer’s system  for  handling  classified  information.  Applicant  received  a  verbal  and  written warning as a result of this security clearance violation.  I  find  his actions  to  be inadvertent. 