In  Applicant’s SOR response, she  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, and 2.a.   She  denied  the  allegation  in SOR ¶  2.b. She  also provided  extenuating  and mitigating information. Her  admissions  are accepted as  findings of fact. Applicant is a 30-year-old program manager, who has been working for a defense contractor since April 2018.  In 2009, she graduated from high school, and in 2013, she was awarded a bachelor’s degree in civil engineering from an Ivy League university, where she had a full scholarship.  She has not served in the military.  In August 2020, she married, and she does not have any children.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that from about 2013 to August 2020, Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency. She indicated she intended to cease using marijuana once her security clearance is approved. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that she used marijuana in June 2020 and August 2020 after she completed her SCA on May 16, 2020. In  2013,  after  Applicant  graduated  from  college,  she  used  marijuana  on  two occasions.  She said the next time she used marijuana was in April of 2018.  In her May 16, 2020 SCA, Applicant said she answered yes to the question about illegal drug use “due to federal regulations around THC/marijuana,” which is an indication she was aware of the federal restrictions on marijuana use. She said in her SCA that her most recent marijuana involvement was in March 2020.  Elsewhere in her May 16, 2020 SCA, she said her most recent marijuana use was around November 2019.  She explained her frequency of marijuana use was “approximately 10-20 times through  the  years,”  and  she  explained  as  follows:  “I  have  never  purchased  marijuana 2 outside state-sanctioned THC/marijuana dispensaries. My first time in a dispensary was after moving [to a state where possession of marijuana under state law is legal] in April 2018; I have been back to the dispensaries a few times .   On  July  17,  2020,  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management    investigator reviewed her SCA responses relating to the recency and frequency of her marijuana use, and Applicant agreed she made these responses on her SCA.  At her hearing, Applicant said when she used marijuana after completion of her SCA, she believed her marijuana use was not prohibited for security reasons because it was not illegal under state law.  In June and August of 2020, she used marijuana in a state where marijuana use is legal.  In her response to DOHA interrogatories on December 11, 2020, she said her most recent marijuana use was on August 8, 2020.  At her hearing, she said she did not use marijuana after August 2020.  On September 25, 2018, Applicant provided a urine sample for a substance-use evaluation, and a laboratory detected 27 ng/ml of the marijuana or Delta-9-THC-COOH metabolite in her urine sample.  Applicant’s October 9, 2018 substance-use evaluation indicates Applicant made a self-report to the evaluator that her most recent marijuana use was on September 1, 2018.  At her hearing,  Applicant  said she used marijuana for medical reasons.  She  ended  her  marijuana  use  in  August  2020,  and  now  she  takes  vitamins  and  uses exercise to alleviate her cramps and pain.  She promised not to use marijuana in the future.  Applicant’s husband  continues to  use  marijuana, and  she  associates  with  him.   She  said that  he  purchases a  single marijuana  joint  at a  time, and  he  does not have any  remaining  marijuana  stored  in  their  house.  Alcohol Consumption SOR ¶ 2.a alleges in August 2018, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol . Her breathalyzer test result was a blood alcohol content  of  .193.  SOR  ¶  2.b  alleges  in  September  2018,  a  chemical  dependency  professional evaluated Applicant and diagnosed her with alcohol abuse, uncomplicated. In  August 2018, Applicant and  her husband  consumed  several drinks in a  bar.  Applicant said  she  consumed  four to  six  drinks of  whiskey  over  about three  hours.  She did  not indicate  the number of ounces of whiskey in the  drinks. They walked home   from   the   bar,  and   Applicant  went  to   sleep   for  several  hours.    She awakened   and   discovered   her  husband   was  not  in   her  residence.    She   was worried   about   him,  and   she   decided   to   drive   around   looking  for him.   She   was arrested  for speeding  and   DUI.  She  was surprised  her BAC was so  high.  The charges   were   subsequently   dismissed   because   the   police   officer  had  listened   to   her conversation  with  her attorney.  In  2018,  Applicant  received  a substance-use   evaluation,  which  indicated   a   “Billing   Diagnosis”   of   alcohol  abuse, 3 uncomplicated.    Her  evaluation  summary  in  the  clinical  notes  indicates  a diagnosis of alcohol-use disorder severe.  In August 2021, Applicant received an updated substance-use evaluation.  The evaluating clinician concluded that she has never had an alcohol-use disorder.  She had not received any alcohol-related counseling, and no counseling was recommended.  The clinician said the “concept of relapse is a non- issue.”  Applicant drinks alcohol at an unremarkable responsible level.  In  the  last  year,  Applicant  has  not  driven  after  consuming  alcohol.    The most alcohol she has consumed on any one occasion in the last year is three drinks.  