Applicant is a 24-year-old project engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  has  never  married  or  entered  into  a  legally  recognized  domestic partnership  and  has  no  children.    He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical engineering from a  recognized  university in  May 2019.   He reported no military service. 2 Since June 2019, Applicant has been employed by his current defense contractor as  a  project  engineer.    Previously,  he  worked  part-time  jobs  for other  non-defense  employers.    Although  both  of  his  parents  have  held clearances, he has never held a security clearance.  Applicant’s  drug history Between  March  2015  and  May  2019  ,  Applicant  used multiple  illegal  drugs  and  prescription  drugs  with  varying  frequency  that  were  not prescribed  for  him.    Drugs  of  choice  that  he  experimented  with  at  social events  over  his  four  years  of  college  attendance  included  the  following:  marijuana, inhalants,  cocaine,  hallucinogenics  ,  stimulants ,  MDMA  ,  PCP,  ketamine,  and  prescription  medications not  prescribed  to  him  .  In  addition  to  using  illegal  drugs  and  prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  him, Applicant  purchased  and  sold  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  between  March  2015 and November 2018.  When asked about his past drug use in the electronic questionnaire  for  investigations  processing    he  completed  in  July  2019,  and again  in  his  personal  subject  interview    conducted  in  August  2019,  he  was  fully forthcoming with his voluntary disclosures of his past drug use. Throughout his four years of college, Applicant increased his drug use to almost daily before reaching his senior year.  Attributing his extensive drug use to peer pressure  from  members  of  his  fraternity,  he  tapered  off  his  extensive  drug  use  in  his senior year.  In the beginning, the drugs he used relaxed him, and as he  matured,  they  made  him  feel  uneasy.  After  graduating  in  May  2019,  and  leaving school  to  move  back  home  and  obtain  full-time  professional  employment,  he  gave  up illegal and non-prescribed prescription drugs altogether.  Applicant continues  to  reside  with  his  parents  and  has  remained  abstinent  from  all  illegal  drugs and non-prescribed prescription drugs.  Applicant  attributed  his  drug  activity  in  college  to  his  desires  to  eliminate  his anxiety and  improve  his ability to  stay focused  on  his studies.   His  drug use did not cause him any financial or other personal strains in his academic life.  Most of the drugs he acquired were from other students on campus who sold drugs, or from friends and acquaintances who shared drugs with him at campus fraternity parties.  He has never manufactured drugs and only sold marijuana, and not for profit. Applicant has never tested positive for illegal drugs and was last tested for illegal drugs by his employer in February 2019 as a part of his application process.  Applicant has not socialized or worked with anyone who uses illegal drugs since graduating from college in May 2019, with one exception: he has a tennis partner and former  high  school  friend,  who  he  believes  uses  marijuana.   Since  giving  up  illegal  and  non-prescribed  prescription  drugs,  “his  anxiety  has  pretty much disappeared.”  3 Applicant  completed  a  post-hearing  letter  of  intent  in  July  2021.    In  his intent  letter,  he  assured  he  has  not  used  marijuana  or  any  other  illegal  or  non- prescribed  drug  since  May  2019.  He  agreed  to  revocation  of  his  security  clearance eligibility  should  he  ever  breach  his  promise  to  abstain  from  illegal  drug  use  in  the future, regardless of whether these drugs are legal in any particular state.   Asked at hearing whether he could foresee any circumstances in the future where he might be persuaded to return to illegal or non-prescribed prescription drugs, Applicant assured he could not.  Randomized  drug  counseling  and  random  drug  testing  might  have  helped  to assess  and  narrow  the  recurrence  risks  that  Applicant  faces,  but  were  not  furnished. Endorsements from his supervisor, coworkers, friends, and his parents who are familiar with his work performance and social habits away from work might have been helpful, too, in assessing the strength of his abstinence convictions, but were not provided. With so  many  years  of  multiple  drug  use  and  only  two  years  of  assured  abstinence  from illegal  and  non-prescribed  prescription  drugs  to  work  with,  more  corroborating documentation was needed from Applicant to facilitate full and accurate assessments of his recurrence risks in the foreseeable future. 