Applicant is a 60-year-old software engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  never  married  and  has  no  children.    She  earned  a  high school  diploma  in  May  1979  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  1990.  She  reported  no military service.  2 Since  October 2018, Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her current employer.   Previously,  she  worked  for other employers in different types of  jobs.   She  has never possessed  a security clearance.   Applicant’s  finances Between  December  2012  and  December  2018,  Applicant  accumulated  five delinquent consumer debts exceeding $77,000.  Broken down, her debts  are  comprised  of  the  following:  ¶¶  1.a,  for  $41,431;  1.b,  for  $5,975;  1.c,  for $1,314; 1.d, for $24,885; and 1.e, for $3,209. Applicant  attributed  her  debt  delinquencies  to  severe  family  problems  over  the course  of  the  previous  14  years.  She  lost  her  father  to  natural  causes  in  2004  that caused  a  loss  in  the family structure  and  imposed  additional financial  burdens  on  her.   In  2015,  she  lost  her  brother    due  to  a  stroke.  Also  in  2015,  her sister was diagnosed with breast cancer requiring surgical treatments, and her mother’s health  declined  due  to  kidney  failure  requiring  dialysis  treatments  three  times  a  week.   Applicant  experienced  further  emotional  and  financial  strains  in  2016-2018 from  a  flooding  disaster  in  her  home  state  of  A,  resulting  in  the  loss  of  her  sibling’s homes and seven units of her personal rental properties with self-sustaining mortgages.  In   2016,  Applicant  assumed   full-time   caregiving   responsibilities  for  her  mother, sister, and  brother-in-law  in the family  home  located  in her home  state  of A.  In 2017,  her sister’s husband   suffered  a   heart attack, and  her sister lost her battle  to  cancer at age 55.   In  2018, Applicant’s mother expired at the age  of  87.   Applicant’s problems with her finances trace to 2012.  Since 2015, she has  made  little  progress  in  paying  and  resolving  her  SOR-listed  debts.  Following  the initiation of foreclosure of a rental property she purchased in 1992, she was left with a deficiency balance on a second trust deed in the amount of $41,431.  While foreclosure  proceedings  are  currently  on  hold,  the  deficiency  covered  by  SOR  ¶  1.a remains  unsatisfied  and  outstanding.  To  date,  she  has  made  no  effort  to  reach  out  to the explore the possibilities of a negotiated settlement.  Currently, Applicant is working with a legal group to resolve the debt. Monies she has received from a state housing agency to support the rehabilitation and renovation of her rental properties are currently in a suspension status pending resolution of contract issues involving the properties.  While  Applicant  claims  to  be  working  on  payment  plans  with  her  remaining creditors  to  resolve  her  debt  delinquencies,  to  date,  she  has  not  been  successful  in addressing  any  of  her  outstanding  SOR  account.   Several  of  her  listed  creditors  that  she  contacted  in  2019  reported  no  account  record .  For other listed debts in which she received 1099 debt cancellation  notices  ,  she  has  not  declared  her debt  cancellations  on  her tax  returns.    Without  documentation  from  Applicant  of  her  addressing  her 3 delinquent  debts  with  either  payoffs  or  payment  arrangements  to  establish  some payment  track  record,  she  cannot  be  credited  with  addressing  any  of  her  listed  SOR debts at this time. Addressing her financial resources currently available to her, Applicant has about $6,000 in her checking accounts and another $40,000 in her 401 retirement account that she can draw on in emergency circumstances.  She owns no stocks, bonds, or mutual funds. She does not smoke or gamble and relies on her own cooking for her dining needs.  Applicant maintains a budget on a spreadsheet to keep track of her  income  sources  and  expenses.    She  has  benefited  from  some  financial counseling,  but  not  enough  to  quantify  with  specific  suggestions  for  stabilizing  her finances.  