Applicant is a 40-year-old single man with two children, ages 15 and 10. He was married previously from 2003 to 2008. The marriage ended in divorce. Applicant served in the  U.S.  Navy from  1999  to  2005.  He  was  released  from  active  duty under honorable conditions.  1 at 2) He served in the U.S. Navy Reserve from 2005 to 2007. Applicant has been working for his employer in the engineering and design division since 2005.  Applicant’s then  wife  was hospitalized  on  July  3, 2008  after she  became  depressed and  suicidal. Applicant’s 13-year-old sister-in-law  agreed  to  stay  in his home  and  take  care of  his daughter while  he  was at work. On  the  evening  of  July  5, 2008, Applicant visited  his then  wife  in the  hospital, then  went out with  friends until about 11:30  pm, before returning home.  After arriving  home, he  and  his sister-in-law  began  talking.  During  their conversation, his sister-in-law  mentioned  that her parents let  her drink alcohol. Applicant then  went to  the  freezer,  retrieved  some  alcohol, and  began  preparing  drinks.   He  gave  her two  drinks. The  first was a  mixture of  vodka  and  Mountain  Dew.  The  next  drink  he  prepared her was nicknamed  “liquid cocaine,” and  consisted  of  a  combination  of  Jagermeister, gold schlagger, rumple minze  , and  151-proof Bacardi.  He testified that he did not intend to get her intoxicated.  At or about the time Applicant and his 13-year-old sister-in-law began consuming alcohol, the conversation turned to sexual matters. He asked her to remove her clothing and she complied.  Applicant then removed his clothing and began touching her body with his hands and mouth. Applicant stopped short of sexual intercourse when he realized that what he was doing was wrong. His sister-in-law slept on the living room sofa and left his home on the following day.  On July 22, 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with indecent liberties with a child by a custodian and aggravated sexual battery.  In November 2008, the 2 charge of aggravated sexual battery was disposed of by nolle prosequi. In January 2009, Applicant  was  indicted  for  indecent  liberties  with  a  child  by  a  custodian,  a  felony.  He pleaded  guilty  in  March  2009.  In  May  2009,  he  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for  12 months , and placed on supervised probation for ten years. The sentencing order required him to register as a sex offender and to have no contact with anyone under the age of 18 without supervision.  Moreover, Applicant was placed on the state’s sex offender list.  In August 2008, while awaiting trial, Applicant voluntarily contacted a certified sex offender treatment provider.  Applicant started individual therapy in September  2008  and  group  therapy  in  May  2009.  He  completed  his  therapy  in  late November 2009 and participated in an aftercare program from December 2009 to May 2010.  His  diagnosis  upon  discharge  from  the  program  was  depressive  disorder,  not otherwise specified; impulse control disorder, not otherwise specified; and sexual abuse of a child. His risk of recurrence was assessed as “low provided he uses what he has learned in treatment.”  In September 2010, the court released Applicant from probation early for good behavior.  In his answer to the first SOR, Applicant stated that his misconduct with his sister-in- law occurred while he was under great emotional pressure, dealing with his then wife’s bipolar disorder and attempts to kill herself.  At the first hearing, he testified that he acquired skills during his therapy that help him cope with stress, and that he has a network of friends, including his rabbi whom he can depend upon for support when needed. After Applicant’s first ISCR hearing, the judge credited him for being remorseful about  his  conduct,  voluntarily  seeking  treatment,  and  informing  his  employer  and  the members of his faith community about his crime. However, the judge concluded that it was too soon to conclude that he had mitigated the security concerns, given the impulse control diagnosis and the recency of the conduct.  Since the 2010 denial, Applicant has earned an associate of science degree, and an associate degree of applied science in photography, specializing in visual communications.   He  graduated  summa  cum  laude.    He  maintained  his outstanding grades while being a leader in student organizations, contributing to the good of the larger community, and maintaining a full-time job.  Applicant consistently receives good annual performance ratings.  In 2012, his supervised probation was suspended for good behavior.  