In his SOR answer, Applicant denied all of the allegations. After a review of the pleadings and evidence, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 75-year-old employee of a federal contractor performing the duties of an engineer. He began working at his present job in June 2019. Applicant retired from full-time employment in 2010. He remained retired and not working until about 2017 when he took a part-time job. During his retirement period, he moved to a foreign country to live part time and where he purchased a home . He was solicited by his current employer to work for them, because of his engineering background, which he did, starting in 2019. He earned his bachelor’s degree in 1969. He is twice divorced  and was most recently married in 2011. He has three children , the youngest for which he pays child support. He has previously held a security clearance.  The  SOR  alleged  eight  delinquent  accounts   totaling approximately $48,000. The debts  are established by credit reports from August 2019, January 2020, and February 2021. Applicant’s responses in his July 2019 security  clearance  application  ;  and  his  personal  subject  interview    with  a defense investigator in September 2019.   Applicant admitted that he applied for the credit cards and incurred charges using the cards for renovating his FH. He made payments on all the cards for some time, then between September and November 2018 he stopped making the payments. His reasons for doing so were: 1) he was upset that his credit score went down because he used these cards; 2) he believes the credit cards companies do not follow the law that applies to them under the Fair Credit Reporting Act , specifically he alleges they do not keep  appropriate  records,  they  fail  to  conduct  proper  investigations,  and  they  fail  to communicate  in  writing  with  complainants;  3)  he  wanted  the  credit-card  companies  to negotiate a lower interest rate on the cards.  The status of the SOR debts is as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.g-$48,079. These seven credit cards have all been charged off for nonpayment. Applicant admitted opening the accounts, using the cards to charge goods and services, paying on the balances up until September through November 2018 when he stopped making payments. He has not made any further payments. He disputed the 2 accounts  in  writing  in  August  2019  with  a  credit  reporting  agency.  These  debts  are unresolved.  SOR ¶ 1.h-$284. Applicant claimed he disputed this medical debt and it no longer appears on his latest credit report. The debt was less than seven years old, so it is unlikely that it was removed from the credit report because it was stale. This debt is resolved.  Applicant has more than sufficient financial resources to  resolve all these debts. He  chooses  not  to  do  so  based  upon  principle—he  does  not  believe  the  credit  card companies follow the law and therefore he will not pay them. His net worth is in excess of  $1  million.  His  gross  yearly  earnings  from  his  job  and  social  security  retirement  is approximately  $167,000.  After  expenses  each  month,  he  claims  a  remainder  of approximately $7,800. He testified he had the resources to pay these debts, but he would have to withdraw money from his investment accounts and incur tax  liability,  which he would not do.  