In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.  Applicant’s admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  42   years   old,   and   he   has  been   employed   as  a   senior  electrical engineer since  July  2018, and  as  an  electrical engineer since  July  2015.   In   1997,  Applicant   graduated   from   high   school.    He  was  awarded   a bachelor’s degree  in  2002.  In  2006  and  2012, he  received  certificates  of completion.   He has not served in  the  military.   He is not  married, and he does not have any children.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  degrees  of  frequency from  June  1994,  to  present.  SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  that  in  2003  he  was  charged  with possession of concentrated cannabis, a felony, and later in 2003, he was convicted of a lesser misdemeanor-level offense and placed on three years of probation. In April 2003, Applicant and his roommates were growing marijuana, and Applicant was arrested for possession of concentrated cannabis.  He was found guilty of a misdemeanor-level marijuana-related charge. He was sentenced to 75 days of custody/work release, which was reduced to 45 days for good behavior.  He paid  fines  and  fees  totaling  $4,746,  and  he  successfully  completed  three  years  of probation.  Ultimately, his conviction was dismissed and expunged.  In   Applicant’s  SCA,   he   said   he   used   marijuana   from   June   1994   ,   to February   2019,  for  recreational  purposes   on   a   daily   basis  for  several  months “interspersed   with   years of  abstinence.”  He did not   use   marijuana   while holding   a   security   clearance   or  a   sensitive   position.    He  said,   “I  do   not   want  to jeopardize  my  career or national security. If  this substance  becomes permissible to  use while  employed  with  a  secret  clearance  at some  point,  I may  consider using  it again.” . On  May  15,  2019,  Applicant  told  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  that he used marijuana recreationally with friends, and occasionally by himself, and his most recent marijuana use was in February 2019.  He 2 said “there is a slim chance he will use THC in the future, it depends on what happens at the federal level.”  In April 2020, Applicant responded to a DOHA question about his marijuana use  since February 2019, and he said  that he used marijuana  “[s]everal times per year usually with  holidays.”  He did not specifically indicate his most recent marijuana use. In  the  FORM,  Department  Counsel  described  Applicant’s  security-significant behavior and noted the absence of mitigation. The FORM informed Applicant that he had 30 days from the receipt of the FORM “in which to submit a documentary response setting  forth  objections,  rebuttal,  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  explanation,  as appropriate.  .  .  .  If  Applicant  does  not  file  any  objections  or  submit  any  additional information . . . [his] case will be assigned to an Administrative Judge for a determination based  solely” on  the  evidence  set  forth  in  this  FORM.  ) Applicant did not provide any response to the FORM. 