Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b without further comment. His admissions are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 32  years old.  He has never married  and  he  has no  children.   He   graduated   from   high   school  in   2008,   and   earned   his  bachelor’s  degree   in 2011.  He  continued   his  academic  studies for several years after that   ,  but did not earn an advanced degree.  While  continuing  his  education,  Applicant  worked  various  jobs,  including  as  a research assistant , a self-employed engineer , and a graduate teaching assistant  among other jobs.  In May 2015, after finishing his classes, he moved to a new state for a job in mechanical engineering. He has worked for that employer ever since.  The allegations in the SOR concern Applicant’s one-time use of Adderall, without a prescription, in March 2013  and his one-time use of “Molly,” while holding a security clearance, in August 2020. .8 “Molly” is another word for Ecstasy, or MDNA.  Applicant  had  a  background  interview  in  April  2018,  in  which  he  discussed  his one-time use of Adderall, in March 2013. The SCA that preceded that interview is not in the record, on which he appears to have disclosed his Adderall use. He explained that he was given the Adderall by a friend before they went out to a  bar. The Adderall was not prescribed to the friend, and it was not prescribed to Applicant.  2 Applicant also disclosed this one-time use of Adderall on his next SCA, in August 2020. He said he would not use it again because “it is illegal.”  He also said that his prior clearance application had been granted, in June 2018.  On or about September 23, 2020, Applicant had his background interview for his most  recent  SCA.    He  confirmed  his  2013  Adderall  use,  as  previously disclosed.  Applicant  was  then  asked  if  he  had  ever  illegally  used  or  otherwise  been involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security clearance. He responded in the affirmative. He disclosed that, in late August 2020, after submitting his SCA  earlier  that  month,  he  had  been  at  a  party  and  someone  had  offered  him  some white powder, a drug called “Molly.” He tasted the powder by wetting his finger, dipping it into the powder, and then licking his finger. He did this three times.  Applicant said he tried the drug because he was curious. He knew that he had a security clearance at the  time, and he knew the drug was  illegal. He  acknowledged  in the interview that he made an unwise decision. He said he was offered another chance to use the powder at the party but declined.  Applicant indicated during the interview that he will not use any drugs in the future because it is illegal and not worth risking his job. He said he regretted his decision to use the powder and would not do it again.  Applicant authenticated both of his interview summaries in January 2021, without substantive  alterations.    He  also  disclosed  both  the  Adderall  and  Molly  usage again,  in  the  portion of  the  interrogatory regarding recent drug involvement.  Applicant  admitted  both  SOR  allegations  without  further  comment.  He  did  not respond to the Government’s FORM or otherwise offer any mitigating evidence beyond what he had previously stated. 