Applicant is a 34-year-old senior administrative assistant for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  married  in  2009  and  has  two  children,  one  from  this  marriage  and another  from  a  prior  relationship.    She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in 2005  and  an  associate’s degree  in  December 2013.   Applicant reported no mitary service.   2 Since  October 2018, Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her current employer.    Between   October  2016   and   November  2018,   she   was  employed   by   a   non-defense contractor  as  a   senior  administrative   assistant.     She   reported unemployment for a  brief  six-month  period  in 2016.   She  has never possessed  a security clearance.   Applicant’s finances Between  2013  and  2019,  Applicant  accumulated  three  delinquent  student  loan debts  exceeding  $8,800  and  delinquent  medical  and  consumer  debts  exceeding $25,000.  In her post-hearing submissions  she supplied a payment history  of  small  payments  made  toward  her  matured  student  loans.  Because  these small  payments  were  not  considered  by  her  student  loan  lender,  the  Department  of Education  to prevent her loans from being in default, they were placed  in a DoE default category.  After crediting two voluntary payments  made in March 2019 and May  2019,  respectively,  and  a  U.S.  Treasury  offset  from  Applicant’s  tax  refund entitlement  made in February 2019 to Applicant’s student loan arrearage, the DoE was able to move Applicant’s delinquent student loan accounts over to the lender’s rehabilitation category.  Further payment progress by Applicant on her student loan obligations is unclear. Since her last reported payments on her student loans in 2019, she hasn’t provided any payment updates. Besides  her  delinquent  student  loans,  Applicant  accumulated  number  of delinquent  medical  and  consumer  debts  .    To date, she has provided no documentation of her addressing any of these accounts with payments,  payment  plans,  or  successful  disputing  of  any  of  the  listed  SOR  debts. Afforded additional post-hearing opportunities to document her payment and resolution efforts,  Applicant  failed  to  do  so.  While  six  of  the  listed  debts  in  the  SOR  have  since been  removed  from  her  credit  reports  ,  their removal  alone  does  not  supply  the  needed  proof  of  her  resolving  them  by  good-faith, voluntary means. Allegations  that  Applicant  failed  to  file,  as  required,  an  federal  income   tax  return  for  tax  year  2017  are  successfully  challenged  by Applicant. The pertinent tax year for reporting her unemployment income was 2016, and not  2017,  based  on  the  unemployment  information  she  provided  in  her  electronic questionnaires for investigations processing  Applicant documented her filing her 2016 federal tax return in March 2017, as required. Applicant, in turn, was  credited by the IRS with reporting her 2016 unemployment income for that year in her filed federal income  tax  return.    State  income  tax  returns  are  not  required  in  her  state  of residence.  Addressing  her  financial  resources  currently  available  to  her,  Applicant  earns $52,000  annually  and  nets  $700  bi-weekly.    She  could  not  estimate  her husband’s annual salary  She estimated to have a small monthly remainder after 3 paying her monthly bills.   Applicant keeps track of her own bills every month but does  not  maintain  a  written  budget.    She  has  not  pursued  any  financial counseling. 