Under Guideline  F, the  Government alleged  that Applicant  did not  timely  file  her federal   or her state   income  tax  returns for the  2013  through  2017 tax  years. It  was also alleged  that  Applicant owed  $15,042  for two  delinquent debts .   In   response   to   the   SOR,  Applicant  admitted   all   of   the   SOR  allegations.    In   addition   to   the   facts   established   by   Applicant’s  admissions,  I  make   the following findings of  fact. Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  she  has worked since August 2017. Applicant was married between 1975 and 1985, and between 1986 and 2001. She has three adult children.  Applicant  lives  and  works  in  State  A  after  relocating from  State  B  in  November 2010 seeking work after a period of unemployment in State B. She had been told that she could find  work for a State A  school system;  however,  after relocating,  the  job did  not materialize. Applicant eventually found work in March 2011 but had to leave that job five months later to attend to a family emergency in State B. She was unemployed for the next 2 five months before finding work at a temporary staffing company on a one-year contract which ended in February 2013. She again was unemployed until July 2013. She has been steadily employed since then.  Applicant timely filed her 2011 federal and state income tax returns using the tax preparer her sister used. Her sister paid for those services. Thereafter, Applicant did not file either her federal or state returns for the tax years 2013 through 2017. She stated that she could not afford a tax preparation service on her own and that she could not figure out  how  to  file  her  returns  herself.  After  she  was  interviewed  for  her  clearance  by  a government investigator  in May 2018, she started working to file her past-due returns. She claimed that all of her past-due returns have been filed and that those returns were not filed until 2020.  I held the  record open after the hearing for the express purpose of giving Applicant more time to submit copies of those returns. She did not submit anything before the record closed.  Applicant  attended   a   college-level  technical  school  between   March   1989   and September 1991,  when  she  was awarded  an  associate’s degree. She  financed  the  tuition for  her  studies  through   a   series  of   federally   subsidized   student  loans  totaling   about $5,000.  Applicant made  payments on  those  loans until about 1995.  Thereafter, the  only payments  made  on  those  loans, the  current balance  of which Applicant  estimates to  be about $40,000, has been  through  involuntary  diversions of  her federal income  tax  refunds.  Applicant  does  not  know  if  she  owes  any  unpaid  federal  taxes.  In  response  to interrogatories from DOD CAF adjudicators, she established that a debt for unpaid State A income taxes for 2013 was satisfied by involuntary wage garnishment in August 2018. Applicant did not submit any additional information about her past-due state income tax returns. In addition to stating that she could not afford to have her tax returns prepared for her, Applicant also stated that the fact her federal tax refunds have been diverted to pay her student loan debts “has a lot to do with why [she does not] want to file .”  The debt at SOR 1.c arose in State A. Applicant traded in a used car with significant mechanical problems on another used car. She had paid on the loan for the trade-in for about two years but still had a significant balance remaining on that loan. The financing for the newly-acquired  used car did not  resolve the remaining balance on the trade-in. Applicant believes she entered into a bad deal because she was desperate to replace her unreliable trade-in. She has since financed the purchase of a different car and has made monthly payments as required. She has not taken any action to pay or otherwise resolve the SOR 1.c debt.  The debt at SOR 1.d arose in State B when Applicant defaulted on a car loan after being unemployed for six months and the vehicle was involuntarily repossessed. Other than contacting the original lender after her May 2018 subject interview, Applicant has 3 never taken any identifiable action to resolve that debt.  Applicant’s current finances are  stable.  In  addition  to  her car loan,  she  pays her mortgage and other regular monthly expenses as required.  