Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d~1g, 1.i, and 1.k~1.x. He denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.h, and 1.j. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  47-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  April  of  2020.  He  is  divorced,  and  has custody of  his three  children.   Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.d. Applicant filed for the  protection of a Chapter 7 bankruptcy in November of 2013  and  his  debts  were  discharged  in  February  of  2014.  This  filing  was  a  result  of Applicant being  “laid off” from  his employment.   1.a.~1.c.  Applicant  has  submitted   documentation   showing   he   has  paid  his delinquent  taxes for  tax  year 2015,  and  is current with  his  Federal and  state  income  tax filings.  These allegations are  found  for Applicant. 1.e.   Applicant  admits  that   he   has   a   past-due   debt,   as  the   result  of   a   jewelry purchase, to  Creditor E  in the  amount of about $1,801.   As  this  debt  also  appears as  past-due on   the   Government’s  most   recent,   August  2021,   credit   report  ,   this allegation is found against Applicant. 1.f.     Applicant   has   submitted   documentation   showing   he   settled   and   paid  the alleged  $799  past-due debt  to  Creditor  F.  This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.g.  Applicant  admits   a   $2,788,   past-due,   motor  vehicle   debt,   the   result   of   a repossession.    The   debt   appears  on   the Government’s most recent,  August 2021,  credit report.    This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.h. Applicant in his Answer denied; but at his hearing  he  now  admits, a  $6,404 past-due  debt to  Creditor H.   Despite  having nearly   three   months  to   do   so,  Applicant  has  submitted   nothing   in  this  regard.   This allegation is found against Applicant. 2 1.i.  Applicant   has  submitted   documentation   showing   he   settled   and   paid  the alleged  $4,483  past-due  debt to  Creditor I.  This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.j.  Applicant   denies  and   formally   disputed   an   alleged   $2,232   past-due   debt   to Creditor  J.      As   this   alleged   debt  does   not appear on  the  Government’s most recent,  August 2021, credit report, this allegation  is found  for Applicant. 1.k.  Applicant  avers he  paid  an  alleged  $1,437  past-due  debt  to  Creditor K.   As  this  alleged   debt   does  not   appear  on   the Government’s  most  recent,  August  2021,  credit  report,   this  allegation   is  found   for Applicant. 1.l. Applicant has  submitted  documentation  showing  that his current balance  due to  Creditor L  is “$0.00.”   This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.m. Applicant avers he  has settled  an  admitted  $875  past-due  debt to  Creditor M.    Despite   having   nearly   three   months  to   do   so,   he   has submitted nothing  in this regard.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.n. Applicant has submitted documentation  showing that his current balance due to  Creditor N is “$0.00.”  This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.o.~1.x. Applicant has submitted  documentation  showing  that he  has “settled  in full” his nine, past-due, medical debts.   These allegations are found  for Applicant. 