Applicant is 34 years old, and he holds a Bachelor’s degree  and a Master’s degree . He is married and has a newly born daughter . Applicant recently purchased his home. Since 2015, he has been employed by a defense contractor.  The SOR alleged that Applicant  used marijuana from about January 2011 to February  2018,  including  after  completing  his  SCA  in  August  2017;    used  and purchased cocaine three times from May 2012 to April 2016; and  used hallucinogenic mushrooms once in May 2015 and once in February 2017.   Applicant admitted those allegations with explanations that he expanded further in his Brief.  Applicant’s answer and response to the FORM made the following points. First, he observed that the duration of his first and last drug usage spanned many years and those instances were “few and  far between.”  Second, Applicant argued that his single use of marijuana during the four year clearance process was isolated and that he stopped when he realized it could affect his clearance. Third, Applicant noted that since his drug usage he  has  married,  bought  a  home,  and  has  a  young  child.  Finally,  he  emphasized  his community involvement and his academic accomplishments.  Applicant submitted the following Evidence to support his claims: Evidence 2.01 ; Evidence   2.02   through   2.06,  and   2.15   ; Evidence   2.07   and   2.08   ; Evidence   2.09   and   2.10   ; Evidence   2.11   and   2.12  ; 2 Evidence  2.13  and  2.14  ; Evidence   2.16   and   2.17   ; and Evidence 2.18 . This is Applicant’s first experience  with  the security clearance process.  Applicant submitted a signed statement that comports with AG ¶ 26.  Law and Policies It  is well-established  law  that no  one  has a  right to  a  security  clearance. As  noted by  the  Supreme  Court in  Department of the  Navy v. Egan, “the  clearly  consistent standard indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations should  err,  if  they  must,  on  the   side  of denials.”  Department  of  Navy  v.  Egan,   484   U.S.  518,   528,531     ;  Duane   v.   Department  of Defense,  275   F.3d   988,  994     .  Under Egan, E.O. 10865, and  the  Directive, any  doubt  about whether  an  applicant  should be allowed   access  to   classified   information   will   be   resolved   in  favor of   protecting   national security. A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.  An unfavorable  clearance  decision    denies  any  application,    revokes  any  existing security clearance, and  prevents access to classified information at any level There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for access to classified information. ISCR Case No. 02-18663 . The Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted. An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that have been admitted or proven. In addition, an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning, and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard. ISCR Case No. 01-20700  . Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse Discussion Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s ability  or willingness to  comply  with  laws, rules, and  regulations.  AG ¶¶  24, 25  and  26 . 3 The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above. In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and mitigating conditions or factors: AG ¶  25 any substance misuse ; AG  ¶   25   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or possession of drug paraphernalia; AG  ¶   26  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good judgment; and, AG  ¶   26  the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but  not limited to:  disassociation  from drug-using associates and contacts; changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  used; and,  providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. Applicant  admitted   using   marijuana,  cocaine,   and   hallucinogenic   mushrooms occasionally, with  the  most recent  usage  being  in February  2018    Facts admitted  by  an applicant  in   an   answer  to   a   SOR   or  in   an   interview   require   no   further  proof   from   the Government.   ISCR   Case   No.  94-1159   at   4     ; ISCR  Case  No. 94-0569  at 4  and  n.1   . 4 Marijuana and cocaine are Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of them  is regulated  by  the  federal government  under the  Controlled  Substances  Act.  21 U.S.C.  §   811   et   seq.   The   knowing   or  intentional  possession   and   use   of   any   such substance  is  unlawful and punishable by imprisonment and or a  fine.  21U.S.C.§844.  In an  October 25,  2014  memorandum, the  Director of National Intelligence  affirmed  that the   use   of  marijuana   is  relevant   to   national  security   determinations,   regardless  of changes to  state  laws concerning  marijuana  use.  James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence,  Memorandum:  Adherence   to   Federal  Laws  Prohibiting   Marijuana   Use . See  also  http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.   AG  ¶¶  25 and  apply. The next inquiry is whether  any mitigating factors apply. I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26. Applicant used illegal drugs with varying frequency as recently as February 2018. His behavior was neither infrequent, nor did it occur that long ago, with his last use being in February 2018, just over three years ago. I find that AG ¶ 26 does not apply. I  have  considered  mitigating  factor  AG  ¶  26.  Applicant’s  signed  written statement faithfully tracks the language of AG ¶ 26. Of more importance is the record evidence that Applicant’s life has dramatically changed since his drug-dabbling days. He has become a husband, a father, and a homeowner. In addition to his impressive history of  academic  and  professional  accomplishments,  Applicant  is  very  active  in  civic  and community affairs. AG ¶ 26 applies. The  record  does  not  raise  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness, judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2- and 2-. Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information. Formal Findings As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following formal findings on the SOR allegations: Paragraph  1, Guideline H: For Applicant Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d: For Applicant 5 In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant access to classified information. Philip J. Katauskas Administrative Judge 6 