In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c, and he admitted in part and denied in part the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.d.  He also provided  extenuating  and  mitigating  information.  The  three  alcohol-related  arrests  and one  apprehension  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d  are  duplicated  in  SOR  ¶¶  2   and 3 . His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  34-year-old   network  engineer,  who   has  worked   for  a   defense contractor  for the  previous six  years.  In  2003, he  graduated  from  high school.  He was married  from  2004  to  2009.  He does not have  any children.  He served  on  active  duty  from  2005  to  2012.  In  November 2012, Applicant was discharged  from  the  Air  Force as a  senior airman   with  an  honorable discharge.   He contended  that  his DD  Form  214  incorrectly  indicated  his rank when  discharged  was senior airman; however, he  was actually a  staff  sergeant .  He received  multiple certifications in information technology, including  in information   technology   security.    He  received   a   security   clearance   in December 2006.  He has worked  with  sensitive  or classified  information  for 16 years, and  he  has never been  accused  of  a security violation.  Alcohol Consumption Applicant  first  consumed  alcohol  in  high  school.    He  began  drinking alcohol to intoxication before 2005.  He rarely drank to intoxication when he was married from 2004 to 2009.  2 Around  May  2008,  Applicant  was  drinking  beer  while  fishing.    When  he returned to his Air Force base, security at the gate stopped Applicant and asked him if he had been drinking.  He said he was drinking, and he was apprehended for driving while impaired.  He believed his blood alcohol  content  was below the legal limit, and he was unsure how the authorities concluded he was intoxicated.  He received a field grade Article 15 or NJP for drunk driving and driving with an expired driver’s license.  His punishment included a suspended reduction in rank to airman first class, and 25 days of extra duty.  He did not appeal his NJP.  He attended alcohol- related training.  He lost his on-base driving privileges for six months.  The record does not contain a copy of the police report or record of nonjudicial punishment for his 2008 offense.  Around   September  2011,  Applicant  was  drinking,  and   he   believed   he   was  not intoxicated.   The  police  stopped  his vehicle  for driving  70  miles per hour    in a  45  MPH zone, and  they  arrested  him  for DUI.  His BAC was .08.  He  was convicted  of DUI,  and  a  civilian court  imposed   two   years   of   probation,   a   $600   fine,   and   court  costs.      He successfully  completed  an  alcohol and  substance  abuse  class.   His driver’s license  was suspended  “as a  matter of  law”  for an  unspecified period.   After the  2011  DUI arrest,  he  modified  his alcohol consumption  by consuming  less  alcohol.  He  did  not disclose  the  DUI arrest and  conviction  to his chain  of command  even  though  he  realized  at that time  that he  had  an  obligation  to disclose it.  Applicant  disclosed  his  2011  DUI arrest on  his  August 16, 2016  SCA.    His  SCA  asked   whether  he   had   been   ordered,  advised,  or  asked   to   seek  alcohol counseling  or treatment in  the  previous seven  years,  and  he  answered, no.   Applicant  said he  answered,  no because  he  believed  the alcohol counseling or treatment question  was seeking information about one-on-one counseling.  Around January and April 2017, Applicant was drinking, and the police stopped his vehicle on two occasions and arrested him for DUI.  As for the April 2017 arrest, he was cited for DUI and driving with a suspended license.  The police  alleged  Applicant failed  to yield  to  the  officer’s commands, and  they pointed  their firearms at  him.   Applicant did  not remember resisting arrest or having firearms pointed at him.  His first BAC from the April 2017 DUI was .197, and his second BAC was .16.  Both DUIs were adjudicated in the same proceeding, and resulted in two DUI convictions.  The driving with suspended license was nol prossed.  He received a combined sentence,  which  included  12  months  of  probation,  a  $700  fine,  court  costs,  and  a suspended jail sentence of 60 days.  He attended an alcohol and substance abuse class for 12 hours.  He did not report the two alcohol- related arrests in 2017 to his employer even though he knew he had a duty to report them.  3 After Applicant completed about eight hours of therapy, his plan was not to drink more than two drinks at a setting, and not to drink on more than two occasions per month.  He has never been diagnosed with alcohol use disorder.  He has different friends from 2017, and his new friends are not focused on alcohol consumption.   He  enjoys  exercise  and  healthy  outdoor  activities  unrelated  to  alcohol consumption.  Applicant denied having alcohol-related blackouts or having withdrawal symptoms.  Over the past 15 years, he abstained from alcohol consumption for nine or ten month periods and then resumed alcohol consumption.  He completed alcohol- related counseling on April 11, 2018.  Applicant  signed  a  statement  of  intent  not  to  drive  while  under  the  influence  of alcohol.  He said, “I understand that any future involvement with drinking and driving is grounds for revocation of my national security eligibility.”  He promised to responsibly consume alcohol in the future.  On March 9, 2020, a licensed clinical social worker , licensed substance abuse professional , and certified substance abuse counselor , provided an assessment of Applicant’s alcohol consumption.  During the  interview, Applicant said his BAC was “well below the legal limit” when Air Force security personnel arrested him for DUI in 2008.  He denied that he was drunk driving for the arrests in 2008 and  2011.    For  his  January  2017  DUI  arrest,  he  said  the  police  stopped  him because his brake lights malfunctioned, and the police office did not see him stop for a stop sign.  For his April 2017 DUI arrest, the LCSW  said “[u]nlike former situations, however, in this instance his BAC was above the legal limit.”  However, she did not indicate his BAC, which were .197 and .16. She indicated Applicant “has never engaged in  binge  drinking  or habitual drinking  to  the  point  of  impaired  judgment.”  She noted  that  after  the  two  DUI  arrests  in  2017,  he  successfully  completed  9  months  of random drug and alcohol urine testing, 12 hours of alcohol and drug abuse classes, and 8 hours of one-on-one counseling with a psychologist.  The LCSW diagnosed no alcohol  use  disorder.    She  recommended  that  he  “engage  in  self  imposed sobriety,” and that he receive access to classified information.  Character Evidence A  friend  and  Applicant’s  father,  a  retired  Army  lieutenant  colonel,  provided character  statements  supporting  reinstatement  of  Applicant’s  access  to  classified information.    The  general  sense  of  their  statements  is  that  Applicant  is knowledgeable, intelligent, honest, and dependable.  He volunteers in his community.  His resume indicates he has had an excellent career in network engineering and information technology.  Applicant  received  the  following  Air  Force    awards:  Meritorious  Unit  Award with Two Oak Leaf Clusters; AF Good Conduct Medal; National Defense Service Medal; Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; AF  Overseas  Ribbon  Short;  AF  Expeditionary  Service  Medal  with  Gold  Border;  AF 4 Longevity Service; USAF NCO PME Graduate Ribbon; Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon ; and AF Training Ribbon.  He successfully completed several AF training courses.  