Applicant  is a 49-year-old  single man with three adult children.  His two  marriages ended in divorce.    Applicant’s  most recent marriage ended in 2009.   Applicant earned an associate  degree in 2012.  He is a veteran of the U.S. Army. He served on active duty from 1993 to 2000, and in  the Army Reserve from 2000  to 2005, before returning t  o active duty  between 2005 and 2009.   He was honorably  discharged.  In  2009,  Applicant  re-enlisted  in the Army Reserve, where he served through 2018 when he received a medical discharge. . He has been working for his current  full-time employer for three years  in the field of information technology.  Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job.  Per  the  company’s  senior  network engineer,  Applicant  “has  always  shown  a  desire  to  lean  [sic]  and  do  a  good  job.” Moreover, while working for his employer, Applicant has achieved significant milestones, and “has conducted himself professionally . . . “  Per a coworker, Applicant is a valued asset to the team whose character is above reproach.  In  February  2007,  a  female  private  first  class,  subordinate  to  Applicant  in  rank, accused him of sexually assaulting her in the barracks while she was unconscious from intoxication. When the episode occurred, Applicant was the assigned supervisor in charge of quarters.  His job was to keep soldiers and property safe.  Subsequently, Applicant was tried by general court-martial and charged with rape, sodomy by force and without  consent,  adultery,  and  dereliction  of  duty.   Applicant  admitted  to  having sexual relations with the female soldier, but contended that it was consensual and limited to oral sex.  Applicant was found guilty of dereliction of duty, rape, and adultery. As for the sodomy charge, the Army amended it, omitting the phrase, “by forcible [sic] and  without  the  consent  of  the  said  Private  First  Class  .  .  .  .  ,”  whereupon  Applicant 2 pleaded  guilty  to  the  amended  charge.    On  June  12,  2007,  Applicant  was sentenced to nine months of confinement and reduction in rank from E-4 to E-1 for six months.  After being released from confinement, Applicant was discharged honorably in 2009 and allowed to enlist in the reserves.  In November 2008, the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Division  determined that Applicant committed the offenses of making a false statement, larceny of government funds, and false claims when he submitted fraudulent documents to the Defense Finance and Accounting Service, claiming his dependents were residing in one state when they actually lived in another.  He submitted these claims for April 6, 2006 through December  20,  2007.    According  to  the  investigation,  Applicant’s  actions allowed him to receive approximately $18,126 in unauthorized pay and allowances.  Applicant denied this allegation. He testified that his then wife and child relocated from the state where they had all been living together in order to live with family members in another state. Moreover, per Applicant, when he proved to the relevant authority that his  family  members  were,  in  fact,  living  in  another  state,  the  Army  concluded  that  his claims were properly submitted and authorized.  Applicant provided no proof of this contention. While  on  reserve  duty  in  November  2011,  Applicant  was  accused  by  a  female soldier  of  touching  her  buttocks  without  permission.    A  subsequent investigation  substantiated  the  female  soldier’s  allegation,  leading  to  Applicant  being charged  with  wrongful  sexual  contact  under  the  UCMJ.  Consequently,  Applicant  was reprimanded.  Applicant characterized his behavior in this instance as “a foolish and inappropriate attempt at a joke,” that “was taken out of context to the extreme.”  Moreover, he testified that he has not engaged in any sexual misconduct in nearly ten years, and that his past sexual misconduct is not reflective of his current character.  Since  2009,  Applicant  has  incurred  $54,000  of  delinquent  debt.  Approximately $25,000 of Applicant’s delinquent debt is comprised of overdue child support, as alleged in subparagraph 3.b.  Applicant began falling behind on child support payments shortly after his divorce was finalized in 2009. Applicant contended that he could not afford the payments because they constituted 50 percent of his income.  He further contends that he has been satisfying his child support delinquency through a wage garnishment.    There  is  no  record  evidence  that  Applicant’s  wages  are  being garnished to pay child support. As of July 2021, the past-due balance was $21,741.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 3.c is an auto loan totaling $10,374. Applicant purchased the vehicle in 2016. Unable to afford it after a contract job abruptly ended, he allowed it to be voluntarily repossessed later that same year. He has made no payments on this delinquency since the repossession.  3 Subparagraphs 3.d, and 3.f through 3.h are student loan accounts with overdue payment  amounts  totaling  approximately  $1,570,  and  collective  balances  totaling approximately  $38,000.  In  2017,  he  obtained  a  forbearance.    As  of  July  2021, none of the accounts were in delinquent status.  The delinquency alleged in subparagraph 3.e, totaling $8,944,  is the balance due on a car.  As with  the car that  Applicant  purchased in 2017, he fell  behind on t  he p  ayments after an employment  contract  ended, compelling him to seek  voluntary repossession.   His current job, which he has held since  2018, is more stable than his  previous  jobs.  Consequently, Applicant has  not experienced  any erratic disruptions in pay, like he experienced when contracts  ended on previous jobs.  Applicant has  nevertheless  made no payments toward the satisfaction of  the car delinquency since it was repossessed.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 3.i, totaling $377, is a delinquent insurance bill. Applicant  contends  that  he  satisfied  it  several  years  ago.    He  provided  no documented proof of payment. The debt alleged in subparagraph 3.j is a collection agent for a phone company, totaling $260. Applicant contends that he satisfied it, but provided no documented proof. Currently,  Applicant  has  approximately  $250  deposited  in  his  checking  account and  $250  deposited  in  a  savings  account.  Although  he  has  not  formally  received  any financial counseling, he has read a book on financial management.  In  2006,  when  Applicant  was  in  the  military,  the  U.S.  Army  Central  Personnel Security Clearance Facility issued an intent to revoke his access to classified information and  eligibility  for  access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information,  alleging  financial considerations  security  concerns.    Subsequently,  Applicant  was  issued  a security clearance conditioned upon his compliance with debt repayment arrangements.  