In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a. He did not answer SOR ¶  2.a,  but  since  it  is  a  cross-allegation  of  SOR  ¶  1.a,  I  consider  it  admitted.  He “admitted” SOR  ¶  3.a, but  with  an explanation  that  I construe as a  denial,  and, in  any event,  SOR  ¶  3.a  has  been  withdrawn.  Applicant’s  admission  and  statements  are incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  31  years  old.  He  has  never  married.  He  has  a  three-year-old  son with  his  former fiancée.    Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S  Marine  Corps  after graduating  from  high  school  in  2008.  He  spent  three  years  on  active  duty  and  was honorably  discharged  in  September  2011  as  a  lance  corporal  .  After  a  year  of unemployment, he worked for five years in the health care industry . He has worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  large  defense  contractor,  since  January  2018.  He works in a warehouse. He has never held a security clearance before.  On  or  about  July  26,  2018,  police  were  called  to  Applicant’s  home  after  a neighbor had reported seeing a fully naked male standing in the front yard of the home 2 actively  masturbating  while  holding  a  cell  phone.    By  the  time  police arrived, Applicant had moved to the backyard. He went inside when he noticed a police officer  in  his  front  yard.  He  did  not  answer  the  door  right  away,  but  instead  took  a shower. He eventually came to the door and was then taken into custody.  Police reports reflect multiple calls to the home in June and July 2018 following reports of similar activity.  According to police records, under questioning from  police,  Applicant  admitted  exposing  himself  and  masturbating  in  his  front  yard about  three  times  a  week for the previous  three months.  . According to the police report, he admitted to engaging in similar conduct  in  the parking lot of  a fitness club  to  which  he belonged  , the parking lot of a convenience store, and in a park.  As  Applicant  explained  during  his  background  interview,  he  was  living  with  his fiancée  at  the  time.  She  was  pregnant,  and  they  were  not  sexually  active.  These circumstances  left  Applicant  sexually  frustrated.  She  would  not  allow  him  to  watch pornography in their home, so he would do so outside instead, on his cell phone; even, on occasion, such as on the day of his arrest, when she was not home.  Applicant was charged with four counts of indecent exposure to a person greater than 15 and four counts of public indecency. In October 2018, he pleaded guilty to one count  of  each  offense  and  the  remaining  six  counts  were  dismissed.  He  was  given  a 180-day  jail  term,  with  all  but  one  day  suspended  ,  and sentenced  to  12  months  of  supervised  probation  and  six  months  of  unsupervised probation.  He  was  fined  $2,500    and  ordered  to  participate  in  a psychological evaluation.   Applicant  had  a  one-hour  psychiatric  evaluation  with  a  DNP    in  February  2019.  He  was  diagnosed  with  “adjustment  disorders  with depressed  mood.”    He  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for  sex  addiction,  but was found to be “at risk.”  Documentation from the evaluation reflects that Applicant reported that he sought counseling from the VA after his arrest, and that the VA therapist told him he no longer needed sessions, but no details  were provided and the  VA  counseling  is  undocumented.    He  successfully  completed  the requirements of  his probation and it  was  terminated early,  in  October 2019.   Applicant’s conduct led to the end of his relationship with his fiancée. He moved in  with  his  parents.  His  parents,  his  sister,  and  some  close  friends  are  aware  of  his actions.  In  his  FORM  response,  Applicant  wrote  that  “this  entire  situation  has  been embarrassing  and  emotionally  painful.”  This is his  only arrest.  As  noted  above,  he  did not recall stating to police he had “exposed himself three times a week for the last three months prior to the arrest.” He said it was never brought to his attention that he was at 3 risk  for  sex  addiction  or  needed  more  treatment.  He  did  not  challenge  other  details about his conduct as noted in the FORM materials. Applicant indicated that he had set up an October 2021 appointment with a VA counselor. He said he needs his job to care for his young son. . Applicant  provided  no  documentation  with  either  his  Answer  or  his  FORM response of any reference letters, work evaluations, or other materials for consideration under the whole-person concept or in mitigation. 