In Applicant’s SOR response, he denied the SOR allegations.  He did not explain why he denied the SOR allegations. Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  project  engineer,  who  has  worked  for  a  defense contractor since January 2019.  In 2008, he graduated from high school.  In high school, he was in honors academics and participated in track and cross  country.    He  graduated  from  a  university  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  in mechanical engineering and a minor in mathematics.  In 2016, he received a master’s  degree  in  mechanical  engineering  with  a  concentration  in  design  and manufacturing.  In 2020, he received a master’s degree in business administration .  In June 2016, he married, and he does not have any children.  He has never served in the military.  He has held a security clearance since 2010.  There is no evidence of any security violations. Sexual Behavior and Personal Conduct The  history  of  Applicant’s  sexual  development  is  detailed  in  his  polygraph interview.  Prior to September 2016, there is no evidence of illegal sexual conduct with minors.  His polygraph result was no deception indicated for questions pertaining to  sexual  abuse  of  minors  and  viewing  child  pornography,  aside  from  the  offense  in September 2016.  In 2016, a large defense contractor employed Applicant. In June 2016, Applicant and  his  spouse  moved  to  the  East  Coast.    Shortly  after  he  married,  his employer moved him to the West Coast for three months, and he was unable to visit his 2 spouse, who  remained  on  the  East Coast,  except for a  brief  visit in July  2016.  Applicant was unable to  make  friends near his work location on the  West Coast, and he  became  lonely  and  depressed.  He tried  to  meet others; however, his overtures were  repeatedly rejected.  In  September 2016,  Applicant had  been  married  for three  months.  He said he  wanted  to  meet someone  he  could  socialize  with, but  not to  date.  He  went to several websites on  the  Internet.  He  clicked  a  category  on  the  Internet called “Wet and  Lonely” or words to  that  effect.   An  advertisement suggested  that a female wanted  to  meet someone  to  watch  Netflix  with  her; however, the  advertisement included  the  “context of  wanting  to  be  taken  care of  sexually.”  He responded  to the  advertisement  indicating  “I’ll  be  glad  to  take  care of  you  or something  like  that.”   He communicated  with  V  on  the  Internet,  who  seemed  lonely  and  abandoned.   He   said   his  intent  was  for  a   platonic   relationship,   and   he   pursued   the   contact because  he  was lonely  and  bored.   He repeatedly  denied  that  he  intended  to  have sex  with  V.  He acknowledged  that a fair  interpretation  of  his response  to  V was that he offered to  satisfy  her sexually.  V  said her mother was going  to  be  out of town, and  she  wanted  him  to  stay  over at  her  residence.    V   said   she   was  almost  16   years  old.     He convinced  himself  that  V  was joking  about her  age  being  only  15.   She  asked  for marijuana;  however, Applicant  “shrugged  it off.”   Applicant said he  was not aware at the  time  he  communicated  with  V  that his  conduct was criminal or “legally  bad.”  He “shrugged  off” the  possibility  that  V  was a  minor, and  did  not think  about how  he might be  hurting  a  minor.  He denied  that he  intended  to  have  sex with  V.  He said that he  might not even  meet with  her.  He said he  just wanted  to  go  for a  drive.   He told the  detectives who  interviewed  him  after his arrest that  a  fair interpretation  of  V  would  be  that he  wanted  to  have  sex  with  her; however, he  claimed  he planned  to  sit in his car and  think about it, and  then  “he  would have  changed  his mind and left but ‘didn’t get the chance’” to leave without having sex  with V.  I requested that Applicant provide the police report or court records pertaining to the allegation in light of his statements about his lack of intent to engage in sexual activity with  V.  After  the  hearing,  he  provided  the  police  report.  The  police  report  said  that Applicant wrote in emails or texts several comments to V of a sexual nature, for example, he said that he “wanted V’s wet p____y tightly around [his] throbbing c__;” and he “wanted to eat her p____y to make her wet for him;” and in response to her comment about being 15, he said that he liked “younger girls.”  He responded to V stating she was 15, that her age was not a problem for him.  V was actually a law enforcement officer who was acting as a 15-year-old girl. She suggested that Applicant engage in oral sex with her.  Applicant agreed to meet V for sex prior to driving to her apartment. He had been drinking four to six beers over about five hours, and he considered himself to be “definitely buzzed,” and he had been taking  his  medication  for  ADHD.    However,  he  said  he  did  not  drive  while intoxicated or impaired when he went to see V.  3 Applicant drove  about 30  minutes to  the location where he was supposed to meet V.    He   had   a   condom   in  his  wallet  before   he   got   into   the   car, and   he   took   the condom  out of  his wallet.   He did not  bring  any  condoms, alcohol, or marijuana for his meeting  with  V.   He parked  in a  parking  lot  near V’s building,  and  the police  arrested  him  for Communication  with  a Minor for Immoral Purposes via Electronic Communications,  a   felony.    His  father-in-law   provided   his  bail.    He informed  his boss of  his arrest the  morning  after he  was released  from  jail.  As a condition  of  release  pending  disposition  of  the  charge, Applicant agreed  not to  use  the Internet,  and his employer placed him on a leave of absence.  In   October  2018,   Applicant  pleaded   guilty   to   Communication   with   a   Minor   for Immoral  Purposes  via Electronic  Communications,  and  he  was sentenced  to  30  days in jail, a  year of probation,  an  $800  fine  and  court  costs,  and  to  register as a  sexual offender.  Applicant denied  that his purpose  was to  engage  in sexual activity  with  V.   He was unclear about the “immoral purpose” involved in his offense. SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  that  Applicant  violated  the  rules  for  sex-offender  registration when he resided within 1,000 feet of a school. Violation of this rule is a Class D felony. See state M Rev. Stat. § 566.1407. In  2017, Applicant and  his spouse  purchased  a  house  .  When he  attempted  to  register as a  sex  offender  in 2018, his registration  was rejected  because the  address he  provided  for H was within 1,000  feet of  a  school.  He  attempted  to lease   several  apartments;  however,  the   state’s  computer  rejected   his  applications   to register as a  sex  offender because  of  their  proximity  to  schools.  Eventually, he found  an  apartment he  could  lease  that  met the  school-distance  criteria, and  he  was able to  complete  his registration  as a  sex  offender.   His spouse  lives at H, and Applicant spends about half  of his time  at H.  He keeps his valuable items at H.  He uses the  mailing  address of H.  He keeps his clothing  at his apartment  and   at  H.    He  considered   the   apartments  he   leased   to   be   his residences.  He is  aware that  the  legal standard  for  residence  for sex-offender registration  in his state  is the  location  where he  sleeps.   He slept in H on  the following  occasions: when  his spouse had  a medical emergency; when  the heat was not working  in his apartment;  and  on  a  couple  of other occasions with  the  permission  of his probation   officer.    He  contacts  his  former  probation   officer  if   he   has questions  about  what  he   is  permitted   to   do   under  the   state’s  sex-offender  registration restrictions.  In   2017,  Applicant  attended   church-sponsored   therapy   and   counseling.    During   his  post-trial  probation,   Applicant  attended   weekly   sex-offender  treatment sessions      In   April  2019,   he   successfully   completed   his probation  and  paid  all  fines and  court costs.   After  completion  of one   year  of  probation,   he   continued   to   attend   therapy   and   counseling   sessions   even though  he  was  not legally  required  to  continue  with  therapy  and  counseling.   His  counselor  said,   he   “is  currently   at  no/low   risk  to   reoffend.  It   is  this  writer’s opinion  that  [Applicant]  is making  the  necessary  changes to  live  a  good  and  productive life.”   On  January  18, 2021,  his  counselor wrote  that he   “successfully  completed 4 the treatment requirement of his psychotherapy.”  Applicant’s family, including his spouse and in-laws, have  been  very supportive  of Applicant’s rehabilitation.  His spouse was approved to be his supervisor when he is around minors, for example, when he attended a major league baseball game.  Applicant disclosed his conviction and why he left his previous employment to his current  employer  and  his  facility  security  officer.    Aside  from  the  offense  in September 2016, Applicant has not communicated with any minors about sex.  He did not engage in sexual behavior with minors after September 2016 because it would upset his wife; he lacks sexual interest in minors; and it is unlawful.  He has never viewed any child pornography.  In January 2021, he was diagnosed with, and he has been receiving treatment for, depression and anxiety.  He regrets his bad decision that resulted in his conviction.  His marriage is important to him.   He  has  learned  to  communicate  better  with  his  spouse.    He  has learned coping mechanisms to address his feelings when he is lonely.  He is more religious now.  Character Evidence Applicant  is  dedicated  to  self-improvement,  and  he  loves  his  employment  and wants to contribute to his country through his employment.  He participated in several volunteer activities in his community.  He held multiple leadership roles related to his employment and national defense.  He received excellent performance evaluations,  and  he  made  important  contributions  to  his  employer.    He received  an  award  from  his  university  for  his  success  during  the  10  years  after  he graduated from the university.  