Applicant is 31 years old. He is married and has no children.  Applicant avers that in  2014, he  “lost everything he owned in a flood. . . . [He]  did  not  have  a  job  at  the  time,  but  needed  essential  items  so  he  used  the  credit cards  he  had,  as  well  as  opened  up  store  credit  cards,  to  buy  essentials.”   1.a. Applicant admits that he owes a past-due debt to Creditor A in the amount of about $10,124.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  B  in  the amount of  about  $8,179.  He  has now submitted  documentation  showing this debt  has been satisfied.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c. Applicant admits that he owes a past-due debt to Creditor C in the amount of about $7,705.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.d. and  1.g. Applicant initially admitted he owed past-due debts to Creditor D in an  amount totaling about $7,413. He  now avers  that  these  debts have  been  resolved. However,  these  debts  still  appear  as  past-due  on  the  Government’s  May  2020  credit report.  These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.e, 1.k.  and  1.m. Applicant initially admitted he owed past-due debts to Creditor E  in  an amount  totaling about $5,464.  He  avers that  these  debts have  been  resolved, and has submitted documentation from Creditor E supporting this averment.  These allegations are found for Applicant. 2 1.f.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  F  in  the amount of  about  $2,417.  He  has now submitted  documentation  showing this debt  has been satisfied.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.g. has been addressed with 1.d, above. 1.h.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  H  in  the amount of  about  $1,522.  He  has now submitted  documentation  showing this debt  has been satisfied.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.i.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  I  in  the amount of  about  $1,500.  He  has now submitted  documentation  showing this debt  has been  satisfied.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.j.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  J  in  an amount totaling about $1,369. He now avers that this debt has been resolved. However, this debt still appears as past-due on the Government’s May 2020 credit report.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.k. has been addressed with 1.e, above. 1.l.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  L  in  an amount totaling about $649. He now avers that this debt have been resolved. However, this debt still appear as past-due  on  the  Government’s May 2020  credit report.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.m. has been addressed with 1.e, above. 1.n.  Applicant  initially  admitted  he  owed  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  N  in  the amount  of  about  $415.  He  has  now  submitted  documentation  showing  this  debt  has been satisfied.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 