Applicant  is  39  years  old  and  single.  He  has  a  fiancée;  with  whom  he  has  two children. She has two children from a prior relationship and he has two children from a prior marriage. Five of the children, ages 4 to 16, live with Applicant and his fiancée. He has  an  associate’s  degree.  Applicant  served  in  the  Navy  and  received  an  Honorable Discharge in 2006. Applicant has been offered employment by a defense contractor and seeks to obtain national security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with this prospective employment.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he therefore  potentially  unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant admitted all the allegations under this guideline. financially  overextended  and is The SOR alleged that Applicant has 29 debts that are charged-off, or in collection, in the total amount of approximately $44,588. The existence and amount of these debts is supported by his admissions to all SOR allegations in his Answer and  credit reports dated February 4, 2021; and October 27, 2021, They are also confirmed by Applicant’s answers on Section 26 of his e-QIP and during an interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management.  Applicant testified that all of these debts were related to consumer spending over the past several years. The records show that many of these delinquent debts have been due and owing for at least three or four years, if not longer. Applicant testified that he is able  to  maintain  his  payments  on  his  current  indebtedness,  albeit  occasionally  late. However, Applicant has been unable to pay or otherwise resolve any of the debts alleged in  the  SOR  due  to  other  commitments  on  his  funds,  primarily student  loans  and  other 2 commercial accounts. Government Exhibit 3 shows that Applicant has over $100,000 in various kinds of debt. Applicant’s ultimate aim is to pay all of his past-due indebtedness.  Applicant  testified  that  he  went  through  a  period  of  under-employment  while  he was going to school between 2015 and 2019. During that period, he was employed in GI Bill work-study programs that did not pay well.  Applicant was in communication with a financial advisor connected to a veteran- oriented,  non-profit  financial  institution.  The  financial  advisor  set  forth  a  roadmap  for Applicant to follow in attempting to resolve some of his debts. Despite his best efforts, Applicant has been unable to  take  the financial advisor’s advice.   