In  his answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  each  allegation    without comment.  His admissions  are incorporated  into  the  findings of  fact. After a thorough  and  careful  review  of the  pleadings and  exhibits submitted,  I make  the  following findings of  fact. Applicant  is  54  years  old.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2002.  He  was married from 1990 to 2009, and has two adult children from his first marriage. He has been married to his second wife since 2012. . Applicant worked for a medical devices company from May 2008 to October 2009, when he was laid off. He was then unemployed for about a year. He then worked for a manufacturing company for just over two years, from October 2010 to January 2013. He then  had  a  job  for  about  two  months  before  he  left  due  to  a  notice  of  unsatisfactory performance. Between 2013 and 2019, he held  several jobs  in  the technical field, and was laid off in February 2019. He was unemployed for about two months before starting his current position, as an inspector with a large defense contractor, in April 2019.  On   his  SCA,   Applicant  referenced   financial  difficulties  and   noted   that  he   sends $150  to  a  debt relief company  every  two  weeks to pay  down  his accounts.    Applicant discussed  numerous specific debts during  his background  interview.  The  SOR  debts  are  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions  in  his  answer  to  the SOR , by credit reports from May 2019 and November 2019 , public records of two state tax liens , and bankruptcy filings in 1990  and 2010 . Applicant indicated in his June 2019 background interview that he fell behind on his  debts  after  he  was  laid  off  in  February  2019.  However,  he  also  indicated  that  he retained a debt relief company in November 2018, which was a few months before he was laid off from that job. He indicated that he enrolled about $18,000 of debts into that plan,  which  required  him  to  pay  $300  a  month  for  48  months,  from  November  2018 2 through November 2022.  Applicant did not provide any documentation with his SOR response or during his background interview to corroborate these payments, or any others.  The delinquent debts alleged in the SOR total almost $36,000. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted each allegation but provided no additional information  concerning the status of his debts and whether they have been, or are being, paid or otherwise resolved. The debts are detailed as follows: SOR  ¶   1.a      is  a  charged-off  account.    Applicant acknowledged the debt in his background interview.  SOR ¶  1.b  concerns a repossessed automobile. The amount alleged in the SOR  is the balance owed after the repossession. $814 was reported as past due on the November 2019 credit report. A line item on that report indicated that it was “affected by natural disaster.”  Applicant did not appear to address this debt in his interview, so there are no other details provided.  SOR  ¶¶  1.c    and   1.d      are charged-off  debts to the  same bank.  Applicant acknowledged the debts in his background interview.  SOR ¶  1.e   is a debt placed for collection. SOR ¶ 1.f   is another debt  in  collection,  owed  to  the  same  collection  agency.  A  bank  is the  original creditor.  SOR  ¶   1.g     is  a  charged-off  debt.    Applicant  indicated  in  his interview that the debt was for food purchases.  SOR ¶  1.h    is a charged-off debt to a cable company.  Applicant admitted the debt in his answer to the SOR, but indicated in his interview that he no longer owed the debt and did not intend to pay it.  SOR ¶ 1.i  is a debt placed for collection.  Applicant indicated in his interview that he did not recognize the debt, but he admitted it in his answer.  SOR  ¶¶   1.j    and   1.k    are  two  outstanding  state  tax  liens,  both entered against Applicant in 2012, in a state where he used to live.  According to his SCA, he moved to a new state in 2013, and has lived there since then.  Applicant  discussed  these  state  tax  liens  in  his  background  interview.  They  appear  to date from tax year 2009, when  Applicant  was  audited and  could not document certain deductions. He said he had been on a payment plan from 2009 to 2018 but had to stop making payments due to other bills.  Applicant admitted the two tax liens in his answer to the SOR and provided no additional information. 3 Applicant  has  experienced  previous  financial  difficulties.  He  filed  for  Chapter  7 bankruptcy protection in 1990, and received a discharge.   He filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy in October 2010. The bankruptcy was converted to Chapter 7 in May 2012, and was discharged a few months later.   Applicant admitted each of the SOR allegations without comment. He provided no documentation about any efforts to pay or resolve  any of  his debts,  either through  the debt relief program or otherwise. He provided no information about his current financial stability. He also did not respond to the FORM, so the only information about his financial situation is taken from his background interview. 