Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  who  is  sponsoring him  for  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with explanations and clarifications pertaining to the financial, drug involvement, and firearm pointing/brandishing  allegations,  while  denying  any  intent  to  falsify  his  e-QIP.  pointing and  brandishing  allegations,  while  denying  any  intent  to  falsify  his  e-QIP.  Findings  of fact follow. Background Applicant married in January 2009 and divorced in May 2012.  He has  no  children  from  this  marriage.  He  remarried  in  March  2014  and  divorced  in  April 2017.    He  has  no  children  from  this  marriage.  Applicant  earned  a  high  school diploma  in  June  2008.    He  attended  college  classes  at  several  institutions 3 between August 2016 and February 2020, but did not earn a degree or diploma.  Applicant enlisted in the Marine Corp in July 2008 and served four years of active duty before receiving an honorable discharge in July 2012.  Since  August  2021,  Applicant  has  been  employed  on  a  part-time  basis  as  an aviation supply specialist while waiting for approval of his security clearance.  His  employer  of  record  since  December  2020  continues  to  sponsor  him  as  a  supply distribution  specialist  contract.    Between  November  2018  and December  2020,  he  operated  his  own  medical  transportation  company  as  a  limited liability corporation .  Previously, he worked for other employers following his military discharge. Applicant has held a security clearance since he was 19 years of age and enlisted in the Marine Corps.  Applicant’s finances Faced  with  delinquent  accounts  he  could  no  longer  safely  manage,  Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection in March 2015.  His petition included no real  property  schedules,  but  did  include  a  schedule  of  personal  property  totaling $26,650.    Creditors  holding  secured  claims  exceeded  $36,000,  and  creditors holding non-secured claims exceeded $124,000.  Applicant  acknowledged  his  receipt  of  on-line  counseling  in  his  petition  without detailing what his counseling included.  He reported net monthly income of $1,968 and monthly expenses of $1,425.  Looking  forward  to  a  fresh  start  following  his  June  2015  bankruptcy  discharge, Applicant  encountered  some  stiff  financial  winds  from  a  difficult  divorce  in  April  2017 and accumulated additional delinquent debts between April 2017 and 2019.  Altogether, he accumulated 15 delinquent debts exceeding $30,000.  The SOR covers delinquent student loan, medical, and consumer debts. Of  Applicant’s  listed  delinquent  debts,  he  has  since  paid  off  three  debts  as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.c , 1.k , and 1.m .   Additionally, he arranged monthly payment plans with SOR creditors 1.b , 1.d , 1.e , 1.f , 1.g , and 1.h/1.j  $69  a  month.   With  these  payment  plans,  Applicant has made first payments and in several cases second payments, but for the most part his  payment  plans  are  in  the  early  phases  and  are  expected  to  continue  for  many months without any definitive track records to work from. In two cases, Applicant has received offers of settlement, for which he has yet to respond: SOR creditor ¶ 1.i  and SOR creditor ¶ 1.p .    Whether  Applicant  has  or  will have  the  available  resources  to  meet  the  offer  terms  of  these  creditors  in  the foreseeable future is unclear. 4 In  addition  to  the  on-line  financial counseling  Applicant certified  to  in  his Chapter 7   bankruptcy   petition   in   2015,  he   has  received   financial  counseling   from  a  non-profit counseling   firm   in  December  2021.      Available  counseling   services included   budget   analysis,  customizing   action   planning,  and   recovery   options   or alternatives  regarding   his  debts.     How   much   he  benefitted   from   his  financial counseling   services  cannot  be   assessed   from   the   counseling   plan   itself   without  more input  from   Applicant.   Concrete   benefits  gained   from   Applicant’s  counseling   is  still incomplete.   Applicant’s plans call  for him  to  pay  $500  a  month  on  his outstanding  SOR debts   and   work on  them  until they   are fully   paid.    Currently,  he earns between  $2,700  and  $3,200  a  month  from  his temporary  employer.  While operating his own company , he  earned very little.  Applicant’s involvement with illegal drugs In  July  2020,  Applicant  was  stopped  by  police  and  cited  for  marijuana possession-civil  after  searching  officers  found  a  package  of  marijuana  in  Applicant’s vehicle.  The marijuana had been gifted to him by his sister to help relieve the stress he was experiencing from the sudden and unexpected loss of his aunt in a traffic accident.  Applicant assured he never opened the gifted bag containing the marijuana and was unaware of  the  bag’s contents when  he was stopped  and  searched  by police.  Appearing in court in November 2020 in a state district court in the state of his residence, Applicant was fined $25.   Applicant sees his sister monthly. . She is a 100 per cent disabled veteran and self-medicates with marijuana; although she never uses marijuana in Applicant’s presence.  Applicant denies using marijuana before or after his marijuana possession arrest and  is  corroborated  in  part  by  negative  drug  test  results  from  a  non-randomized  drug test he submitted to in December 2021.  The record does not contain any probative  evidence  of  any  prior  use  of  illegal  drugs    before  his marijuana possession citation in November 2020. Supporting Applicant’s assurances of future  abstinence  from  all  illegal  drug  use  is  a  statement  of  intent  he  signed  in December 2021.  In  his  statement  he  assured  under  oath  not  to  misuse  substances  in  the  future , at the risk of  an  automatic  revocation  of  his  security  clearance  in  the  event  of  a  violation  of  his oath.  Applicant’s assurances are credible and accepted. Applicant’s firearm pointing/brandishing arrest After being stopped by police in July 2020 and searched, Applicant was arrested for pointing and brandishing a firearm at an individual   who  had  pulled  up  beside  Applicant  and  reported  his  pointing  and brandishing his firearm at him.  Upon appearing in court 5 in November 2020 to face the firearm charges, Applicant was advised that the charges were  nolle  prossed  after  the  prosecution’s  principal  witness  failed  to  show  up  for  the trial.  At the time of his arrest, Applicant was licensed in his state of residence to carry a firearm.  He has never before or since been cited or arrested for a weapons violation.  Applicant’s  e-QIP  omission Asked  to  complete  an  e-QIP  in  February 2021,  Applicant  omitted  his  July 2020 marijuana possession arrest.  He attributed his omission to a good faith lapse in memory.    When  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management    several  months  later,  he  never  mentioned  the  marijuana possession incident either and was not confronted by the investigator.  Applicant has no record of marijuana involvement, either before  or after his July 2020  citation.  He  displayed  both  honesty  and  candor  throughout  the  hearing  process. His  memory  lapse  in  disclosing  his  marijuana  possession  incident  in  the  e-QIP  he completed in February 2021 can be attributable in part to his never opening the gifted bag  from  his  sister  containing  the  marijuana  and  his  being  unaware  of  the  bag’s contents. His explanations and lack of any prior marijuana use or involvement support a finding that  his omission  reflects  a  credible mistake  or inadvertence  on his part  and  is accepted.   Considering  all  of  the  circumstances  of  Applicant’s  2021  e-QIP  omission  of  his marijuana  possession  citation,  inferences  are  warranted  that  the  omission  does  not reflect any knowing and willful intent to falsify his e-QIP. Inferences that the allegations of falsification are unsubstantiated are warranted. Endorsements  and awards Applicant is well regarded by friends and colleagues who have worked with him.  Uniformly, they consider him to be honest and trustworthy. Awards and letters of appreciation for his Marine Corp service are considerable and include a Good Conduct Medal,  a  Navy  Achievement  Medal,  Letters  of  Appreciation,  a  Meritorious  Mast  in Recognition  of  Outstanding Service,  a  Presidential Service  Certificate, and  recognition as an Honor Graduate of the Marine Corps.  