In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 2.d, 2.e, 2.f, 2.g,  and 2.h. She partially admitted and partially denied SOR  ¶¶ 1.e,  2.a,  2.b, 2.c. 2.i, 2.j, and 2.k. She denied SOR ¶ 1.c. Her admissions and explanations are incorporated into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  30  years  old.  She  and  her  husband  married  in  May  2016.  They separated  in  September  2017  and  a  divorce  is  pending.  They  have  a  son,  age  nine, who lives  with Applicant and  her brother. Applicant and her husband have an informal custody-sharing arrangement, and he provides her financial support.  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  2010.  She  reported  on  her  application that she attended a year of  college  but did not earn a degree.  She has worked for a large defense contractor for the last three years, since February 2019.    She  works  full  time  as  a  tech  specialist  in  the  travel  office  and  is currently  teleworking.  She  earns  $20.79  an  hour  and  her  2021  W-2  shows  an  annual income  of  $37,779.  She  has  not  held  a  prior  clearance  or  eligibility  for  a  position  of public  trust.    Before  taking  her  current  job,  she  worked  at  a  restaurant  the previous seven years .  In March 2010, when she was in high school, Applicant was with friends at a mall and was caught by a security guard trying to shoplift a piece of costume jewelry from a department  store.  She  was  arrested  and  charged  with  shoplifting.  In  May  2010,  she received  a  40-day  suspended  jail  sentence,  and  was  placed  on  two  years  of 2 unsupervised  probation.  She  completed  her  probation  and  some  community  service.   In August or September 2010, Applicant and  a friend  were at the friend’s house in State 1, where she grew up. They took a check from the friend’s father’s checkbook, filled  it  out,  signed  his  name,  and  used  the  check  to  withdraw  money  from  his  bank account. She spent some of the money at a mall.  At the time, Applicant was preparing to go to college, in State 2. She acknowledged when she moved to State 2, she took a fraudulent check, or money cashed with one, to use there “to buy things.”  The  friend’s father filed  charges when  he  learned  his  check  had  been  stolen, though Applicant testified that he tried to get the charges dropped when he learned his daughter  and  Applicant  were  responsible.    In  fall  2010,  when  she  was  in college  in  State  2,  Applicant  and  her  college  roommates  were  questioned  by  campus police. Applicant was also questioned  about using other people’s credit cards, charges were  noted  on  her  FBI  record    but  she  denied  that  conduct.    In October  2010,  she  was  charged,  in  State  2,  with  felony  identity  theft.  ) Applicant’s  FBI  record  reflects  that  she  was  also  charged  with  multiple  misdemeanor counts  of  fraud  and  larceny  ,  as  well  as  misdemeanor unlawful use of a credit card .  In  January  2011,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  in  State  1  with  identity fraud and obtaining money by false pretenses, both felonies. In March 2011, Applicant pleaded guilty to reduced misdemeanor charges, and she was sentenced to 12 months of  jail time  and three years of unsupervised probation.  Her probation for the shoplifting charge above was revoked, and she was sentenced to time served .   The State 2 charges were nolle prossed, also in March 2011.  Applicant’s  public  trust  application  included  the  following  question:  “Have  you EVER been charged with any felony offense?”  Applicant’s answer of “NO” to that question is alleged as being deliberately false in both respects, since she did not report her felony charges in State 1 or State 2.  and d. None of the State 2 misdemeanor charges were alleged in the SOR. The State 2 felony charge was alleged not for the offense itself, but rather only as a falsification on her  application  for  a  position  of  public  trust.  )  Applicant  testified  that  she did  not  list  the  State  2  felony  charge  on  her  application  because  she  believed  it  had been expunged and was no longer on her record.  When  asked  why  she  did  not  list  her  State  1  felony  charges  on  her  application ),  Applicant  asserted  that  she  was  not  required  to  report  the  offense because she thought  it had occurred more than 10 years earlier. She also asserted that her boss and a contact at DOD, Ms. C, told her she did not have to report 3 it.  Applicant  was  given  the  opportunity  to  document  that  contact  after  the  hearing,  but did not do so.  By  February  2018,  Applicant  had  separated  from  her  husband  and  had  moved into an apartment. She testified that she went to an ATM machine to make a deposit so she could get a money order to pay her rent. Money was tight because she was working at a restaurant, with limited income. She said that the deposit jammed in the machine, so she could not withdraw any money. She contacted the credit union the next day.  She also provided  her apartment complex a letter from the credit union to show that “due to an ATM error, the funds were not credited to her account” on January 31,  2018  and  she  was  credited  $124  the  next  day,  February  1,  2018.  ) Applicant used that letter to avoid the $500 charge for paying rent late. According  to  the  Government’s  evidence,  the  apartment  complex  became suspicious  about  the  document  they  received  from  Applicant,  so  they  contacted  the bank, which, in turn, contacted the police. The Government’s evidence includes a letter that  the  bank  received  from  the  apartment  complex,  purportedly  on  credit  union stationery,  with  a  signature  from  the  bank  representative,  reflecting  that  Applicant’s account  had  been  credited  $824,  not  $124,  on  February  2,  2018.    The letters  show  what  the  report  calls  “obvious  differences,”  not  only  in  the  amounts,  but also the stationery letterhead, the typeface, the location of the bank branch address on the document, and the fact that one letter contains a signature and the other does not.  The matter was forwarded to the police for appropriate action. SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  Applicant  “substantially  altered  the  letter  and  submitted the  altered  document  to  her  apartment  complex;”  and  that  in  June  2018,  she  was charged  with  felony  perjury  –  falsely  swearing  an  oath,  and  felony  “other  forgery writing.”  In  December  2018,  the  charges  were  dismissed.    Applicant denied the allegation in her answer. Applicant  acknowledged  that  for  February  2018,  she  underpaid  her  rent  about half , but that she paid the full rent on February 2, along with the letter from the bank. She said this was the only time she was late paying rent.  In July 2018, Applicant’s apartment complex obtained a judgment against her for unlawful detainer .  Applicant stated that the eviction process  had  begun  but  she  was  allowed  to  break  her  lease,  and  she  did  not  have  to appear in court.  In answering questions on her public trust position application about her criminal record,  Applicant  explained  that  in  November  2018,  she  was  informed  by  a  prior employer  about  outstanding  criminal  charges.  She  contacted  county  authorities,  who told her there was an arrest warrant for her on a perjury charge. She turned herself in, was booked and released. She went to court soon after and the charges were dropped.  4 Applicant  asserted  in  her  testimony  that  she  had  never  seen  the  second  letter before, did  not put  the  bank  representative’s signature  on  it, and  did not  send  it  to  her apartment  complex.  She  denied  that  she  forged  the  letter  from  the  credit  union.  She acknowledged  that  without  the  letter,  she  would  have  had  to  pay a  $500  late fee.   She also denied committing perjury in court. She said she  was  not  arrested  or  served  a  warrant;  she  said  that  the  matter  came  up  in  her background check for a job interview with a bank.  Applicant’s FBI Record does not reflect criminal charges relating to these events, but they are referenced  in Applicant’s report of  investigation  as having been discussed in her background interview.  They are also documented by AE A, a court database record provided by Applicant. On  multiple  occasions  since  October  2017,  Applicant’s  driver’s  license  was suspended  after she failed  to  appear in  court for traffic violations or after she failed  to pay  the  related  fines  and  court  costs.  ,  ,  ,  and  ).  Applicant admitted the various suspensions, but documented that she has paid all fines and costs and  that her driver’s  license has been in  good  standing since April 2020.   Applicant said she was not proud of the things she did in her youth, and makes no  excuses,  but  has  grown.  It  was  a  dark  time  in  her  life.  She  denied  the  charge  in 2018.  She  is a hard-working,  law-abiding citizen  who  is raising her  son.  Applicant  has had no other arrests or criminal offenses.  The  financial  allegations  in  the  SOR  mostly  concern  delinquent  federal  student loans , but also some medical debts  and two other  debts  for a total of just over $17,000. Applicant disclosed various debts on her  application  and  discussed  them  in  her  background  interview.    The debts are also established by July 2019 and February 2020 credit reports.  SOR ¶¶ 1.a , 1.b , 1.c , 1.i , 1.j  and 1.k   are  Applicant’s  delinquent  federal  student  loans,  which  she  used  to  pay  for college. She has no private student loans. She dropped out of college when she gave birth  to  her  son.    The  loans  all  became  delinquent  in  2016,  when  she  was working at the restaurant.  In  February  2020,  Applicant  was  to  enter  into  a  repayment  program  to rehabilitate  her  defaulted  loans    by  making  payments  of $110 a month and then $5 a month on separate accounts.   It  is  not  clear  that  she  did  so,  as  AE  U,  a  February  2022  credit  report,  does  not reflect that she made such payments, nor are they otherwise documented in the record. In  spring  2020,  federal  student  loans  were  placed  in  forbearance  or  deferment status  by  the  federal government  due  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic.   That program  has  now  been  extended  by  the  Biden  Administration  until  the  end  of  August 5 2022.  .  Applicant  is  not making  student  loan  payments  now  but  plans  to  do  so  once  the  forbearance  period ends.  SOR ¶ 1.d  is a past-due power bill. Applicant admitted the debt but said her  husband  was  responsible  for  it  and  was  paying  it  off.  She  said  they  had  trouble changing the name on the account. She asserted that the account is now paid, because she  has  an  active  power  account  with  the  same  company.    She provided a supporting letter from her husband in which he said he was paying Applicant to  cover  the  bill.  )  However,  no  payments  to  the  power  company  are documented. SOR ¶ 1.e  is an insurance bill reported for collections. She admitted the debt in her answer, but at her hearing she asserted that her husband was responsible and  that  the  debt  had  been  taken  care  of.    No  payments  are  documented, however. SOR  ¶¶  1.f  ,  1.g    and  1.h    are  all  past-due  medical  debts  to unidentified creditors.  Applicant recognized the accounts, admitted the debts in her answer, and said they had been paid or that she was on a payment plan. She said the  debts  were  due  to  unplanned  surgery.  At  least  one  of  the  debts  has  been  paid.  She has medical insurance through her job.  Applicant  testified  that  her  finances  are  now  stable.  According  to  her  budget, Applicant reported monthly income of $3,722 and expenses of about $2,486.   She  pays  about  $1,470  a  month  in  rent  and  utilities.  Her  husband  helps  by paying $500 a month. She has a car payment of about $460. She said she pays $25 a month for a credit monitoring service.  She said she had about $1,200 in her checking account and about $3,000 in savings.  Her credit score is now 611.  Applicant’s  program  manager  said  in  a  letter  that  she  has  an  “amazing  work ethic” and is a highly productive part of the company’s workforce. She has initiative and enthusiasm.  He  recommends  that  she  receive  a  common  access  card  so  she  can assume her full duties.  Applicant’s  stepmother  attested  to  her  character  and  said  Applicant  has  turned her life around and has overcome the challenges of her youth. She is a devoted family member and hard worker, with excellent leadership qualities.  