In Applicant’s SOR response, he  denied the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.a.  He also  provided  mitigating  information.  His  admissions  are  accepted  as  findings  of  fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  former  DOD-contractor  employee  who  is  seeking employment  for  a  defense  contractor  in  the  area  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction response mitigation and proliferation analysis.  A defense contractor employed him from 1999 to March 2016.  After March 2016, he worked in retail.  He is exceptionally intelligent. There is no evidence of criminal offenses, drug abuse, or security violations. In 1993, Applicant graduated from high school.  In 1998, he received two bachelor’s degrees in environmental science and physics from a prestigious university.   He  has  several  highly  technical  engineering  and  statistics-related certifications.  He has not served in the military.  He has never married, and he does not have any children.  Alcohol Consumption and Criminal  Conduct SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  in  March  2020,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use disorder, moderate. Applicant agreed the diagnosis was accurate in March 2020.  Applicant  felt  stress  at  work  from  interactions  with  coworkers  and  due  to  extensive mission-related  travel.    He  left  defense-related  employment  in  March  2016 because his branch of the company was being sold.  He had been using alcohol to help him cope with the stresses of his employment.  He made extensive efforts to ensure his alcohol consumption did not adversely affect his employment.  He was unemployed from March 2016 to November 2017.  After November 2017, he 2 worked  part time  for several retail  entities for  about  12  to  25  hours a  week.   He  also  worked   at  several  other  part-time   endeavors  unrelated   to   his  previous defense  employment.   During  2020, he  worked  for a  defense  contractor for  six months  in  his specialty, and  then  he  was unable to  work because  the  security  levels for his employment were increased.  Applicant has a family history of excessive alcohol consumption and mental health disorders.  He acknowledged a personal predisposition to these issues.  Applicant  first  consumed  alcohol  at  age  11.    He  consumed  alcohol  in college, and drank more regularly after college.  He estimated that after college he  consumed  about  six  beers  a  week.    After  he  started  his  defense-related employment and was traveling, he drank four to six beers a day.  In the 2010 to 2011 period, the volume of Applicant’s alcohol consumption peaked.   Around  2010,  while  Applicant  was  on  mission-related  travel,  he  consumed sufficient alcohol for an alcohol blackout.  He did not remember how he went from  the bar  where  he was  drinking  to  his hotel room.  He believed  one of  his Marine Corps companions at the bar drove him to his hotel.  He missed the class he was supposed to attend the next day.  In 2011, Applicant was consuming alcohol when he erroneously believed a bottle in his freezer contained vodka. He consumed about six ounces of methanol that he was storing in his freezer to use to maintain his vehicle.  He called poison control and  an  ambulance  took  him  to  the  emergency  room.    He  was  hospitalized overnight.  In 2015, Applicant was consuming alcohol and he slipped off of the couch, and cut his toe on a knife that was on the floor.  He received care at an urgent care clinic.  The incidents in 2011 and 2015 were the only alcohol-related incidents after which he received medical care.  In 2016, Applicant consumed alcohol, and then he went to a park  He fell asleep in the park.  It was cold and there was snow on the ground.  His alarm went off; he awoke; and he walked back to his residence.  He did not suffer frostbite or other cold-related injury. After  he  left  his  defense-related  employment  in  2016,  he  increased  his  alcohol consumption.    During  a  five-month  period  in  2017,  he  occasionally  drank  500 milliliters of  alcohol   on  more  than one  day during a week.    The frequency of his alcohol consumption peaked in 2017, and later in 2017, he reduced his alcohol consumption.  In 2017, he hid bottles around his residence, and consumed  alcohol  in  the  middle  of  the  night.    Applicant  hid  his  alcohol consumption from his cohabitant by consuming alcohol outside of her presence, such as when she was at work.  He described himself as having “extreme competency in  being  a  functioning  drunk.”    His  alcohol  consumption  when  off  duty  did  not 3 adversely affect his performance at work. In 2017, he began therapy.  In March 2018, he broke up with his cohabitant.  Applicant  attended  individual  therapy  and  group  counseling  from  2018  to  2020.  He attended about 15 Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings.  His therapist met with him on a weekly basis for 50-minute sessions which focused on treatment of his anxiety and replacement of alcohol as a coping mechanism with more constructive means of coping with stress.  In late 2018, he began 105-minute weekly group therapy sessions, and he limited his alcohol consumption to three to four beers for each drinking session.  In  March 2020, he stopped meeting with  a  therapist  because  the COVID-19  pandemic  security  protocols  for  video  teleconferencing  were  not  adequate.  His therapist did not provide a written diagnosis or prognosis.  Applicant was never explicitly told that he should abstain from alcohol consumption; however, he acknowledged that during group sessions the message was that it was best to completely abstain from alcohol consumption.  Applicant’s current level of alcohol consumption  is “almost zero.”  He did not drink any alcohol for about eight months in 2021. Then, during one three-day weekend about one month before his hearing while visiting family, he drank nine beers.  This was the most alcohol he consumed in the previous year.  He acknowledge that after consuming one drink, inhibitions are somewhat relaxed, and the next drink is more of a possibility.  He is confident that he is able to control the amount of alcohol he consumes.  He lives in a drug and alcohol free community.  On March 5, 2020, a psychologist, Dr. B, evaluated Applicant, and she diagnosed alcohol use disorder .  Dr. B said: Given   [Applicant’s]  drinking   habits,  his  family   history   of   substance   abuse and  mental health  conditions,  as well  as  [Personality  Assessment Inventory ]  results pointing  to  significant alcohol-related  problems and  variable mood, there  is reason  for concern. These  factors, coupled  with  his history of   alcohol-related   incidents   and   lack  of   long   term   plans  to   abstain  from alcohol, raise questions about his judgment. *  *  * CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the risk of future alcohol-related incidents seems  moderate,  and  [Applicant’s] prognosis  appears guarded. Although [Applicant] reported that he had been consistent with individual and group therapy, and he has gained insight into himself and his drinking, a medical opinion  could  not  be  obtained  and  during  the  investigatory  process,  he consistently conveyed a lack of confidence in his ability to avoid relapse in the face of future stressors. As such, his diagnosis could pose a risk to his judgment,  reliability  or  trustworthiness  concerning  classified  information.   4 At the time of his March 2020 evaluation, Applicant had been sober for two months, and he was concerned about “reversion into the past behaviors and activities.”  After his March 2020 evaluation, he ended his  alcohol-related therapies; nevertheless, he is now comfortable with his current state of limited to almost zero alcohol use.  Applicant recognized that after receiving the March 2020 evaluation he would have a  better  change  of  approval  of  his  access  to  classified  information  if  he  stopped consuming alcohol.  However, he decided to continue his alcohol consumption because complete abstinence from alcohol as not his goal or intention.  He did not want to stop consuming alcohol because of his security clearance.  He rationalized that the reason for ending his alcohol consumption should be because of  his personal goals and not because of security concerns related to his alcohol consumption.  Applicant  never  drives  after  consuming  alcohol.    He  has  consumed sufficient alcohol over the last three years to be intoxicated three or four times.  The most alcohol he consumed in the previous three years was one mixed drink and five beers in November 2020, when his father passed away.  The DSM criteria for diagnosis of alcohol-use disorder for mild , moderate , and severe  are as follows: A.  A  problematic  pattern  of  alcohol  use  leading  to  clinically  significant impairment  or  distress  as  manifested  by  at  least  two  of  the  following, occurring within a 12-month period: 1. Alcohol is often taken in larger amounts or over a longer period than was intended. 2. There is a persistent desire or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control alcohol use. 3. A great deal of time is spent in activities necessary to obtain alcohol, use alcohol, or recover from its effects. 4. Craving, or a strong desire or urge to use alcohol. 5. Recurrent alcohol use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or home. 6.  Continued  alcohol  use  despite  having  persistent  or  recurrent  social  or interpersonal problems caused or exacerbated by the effects of alcohol. 7. Important social, occupational, or recreational activities are given up or reduced because of alcohol use. 8. Recurrent alcohol use in situations in which it is physically hazardous. 9.  Alcohol  use  is  continued  despite  knowledge  of  having  a  persistent  or recurrent  physical  or  psychological  problem  that  is  likely  to  have  been caused or exacerbated by alcohol. 10. Tolerance, as defined by either of the following: a.  A  need  for  markedly  increased  amounts  of  alcohol  to  achieve intoxication or desired effect. 5 b.  A  markedly  diminished  effect  with  continued  use  of  the  same amount of alcohol. 11. Withdrawal, as manifested by either of the following: a. The characteristic withdrawal syndrome for alcohol . b. Alcohol  is taken to relieve or avoid withdrawal symptoms DSM-5 at 490-491; GE 6. Applicant provided statements from four character witnesses.  The general sense of his character statements is that he is a model employee, who is mature, professional, empathetic, punctual, helpful, trustworthy, responsible, and reliable. Two statements also described an improvement in his weight, health, and general wellbeing in the last few years. 