In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 32-year-old manufacturing engineer.  In 2008, he graduated from  high  school,  and  in  2012,  he  was  awarded  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  mechanical engineering.  He has never served in the military.  In 2018, he married, and he has a four-month-old son.  He has worked for a defense contractor for five years.  He has not held a security clearance.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from August 2008, to about June 2020.  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that he used cocaine on various occasions from about December 2015 to April 2019.  Applicant’s  SCA  and   Office   of   Personnel  Management     personal  subject interview   were  consistent  in   their   descriptions  of   his  involvement   with   marijuana   and cocaine.  He began  using  marijuana  in  2008  when  he  was 19  years  old.   He averaged  marijuana  use  about  four times a  year until he  began  working  for his current  employer.    After  he   began   working   for  his  current   employer  in  October 2016, he  reduced  his marijuana  use  to  about twice a  year.   He took  a  drug  test when   he   began   working  for the   government   contractor,   and  the   company   has  a   policy against   illegal  drug   use.    He  was  unaware  of  his  employer’s  precise   rules concerning  illegal drug  use; however, he  knew  his employer prohibited  use  of marijuana and  cocaine.  He continues  to associate  with  the friends who  used marijuana with  him; however, they  do  not use  marijuana  in his presence.  His spouse does not use  marijuana.   He does not have  any  marijuana  in his house  or car.  2 Applicant used marijuana twice in 2019, and once in 2020, and  his most recent marijuana use was in June 2020.  When someone offers marijuana to him, for example at a party,  he declines the offer to  use marijuana.   He has family or friends who use marijuana. Applicant  used  cocaine  once  in  about  December  2015  and  once  in  about  April 2019.  He used the cocaine at a dance club and at a bachelor party.  Applicant said he stopped using illegal drugs because he has a son.  He has  never  had  any  drug-related  counseling  or  treatment.    He  has  never  been arrested for a drug-related offense, and he has not tested positive in any urinalysis for use of illegal drugs.  He does not intend to use illegal drugs in the future.  