In  his answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  each  allegation    each  with  brief  comments. His admissions are incorporated  into  the  findings of  fact. After a  thorough  and  careful review  of  the  pleadings and  exhibits  submitted, I  make  the following findings of  fact. Applicant is 36 years old. He graduated from high school in 2003 and from college in  2007.  He  earned  a  Ph.D.  in  2014.  He  then  spent  two  years  as  a  post-doctoral researcher.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  since  May 2016. He previously worked for the same company in 2007 and 2008. He and his wife have been married since 2015; they have no children.  On his SCA, Applicant disclosed that he had delinquent student loans, both federal and private. . Applicant discussed these and other debts in his January 2019 background interview.  In December 2020, he responded to interrogatories from DOHA about his finances. He provided a personal financial statement, an October 2020  paystub,  and  a  May  2020  agreement  with  the  U.S.  Department  of  Education  to rehabilitate  his  delinquent  federal  student  loans    by paying $1,025 per month.  The SOR debts are established by Applicant’s admissions and by the credit reports in the record, from September 2017, July 2019, April 2020, February 2021, and November 2021.  The SOR debts total $36,477 in federal student loans, $14,470 in debts to a bank, and a $936 tax lien. They are detailed as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a , 1.b , 1.d , and 1.f  are all federal student loans to the U.S. Department of Education. With his answer to the SOR, Applicant provided a copy of the same rehabilitation agreement he submitted with his Interrogatory Response.  According  to  that  agreement,  signed  in  May  2020,  Applicant  had  four delinquent federal student loans, on which he owed about $43,000. He was to pay $1,025 per month.  2 Applicant explained some of his debts in his January 2019 background interview. For some of his federal loans , he explained that he requested forbearance in 2008 but did not clarify to the lenders that he was in graduate school.  As  a  result,  he  began  receiving  payment  notices.  For  a  time,  he  was  on  a repayment plan, but stopped making payments after he consulted legal counsel. Instead, he fell behind.  Applicant’s federal student loans are likely in forbearance under the Coronavirus Air,  Relief,  and  Economic  Security    Act  of  2020.  President  Biden  recently extended this forbearance period through August 2022. It allows for a suspension of loan payments, a zero percent interest rate, and collections on student loans are halted. . He provided no documentation of  any  payments  made  on  his federal  student  loans,  either  before  he  entered  into  the rehabilitation plan, or since, and he does not set forth a plan to address his federal student loans when the CARES Act forbearance period ends. SOR ¶¶ 1.c  and 1.e  are debts to a bank. Applicant indicated in his background interview that he believes the accounts are private student loans that he may have co-signed for his wife, but he was unsure of any details.  His credit reports list the accounts as being deferred, in collection, and most recently, charged off.  In his Answer, Applicant admitted the debts and suggested, without corroborating evidence, that they were under the same rehabilitation agreement as the federal student loans. These debts are unresolved. SOR ¶ 1.g  is an unresolved state tax lien entered against Applicant in 2009.  It is not listed on subsequent credit reports. The tax lien was issued by State 1, where Applicant earned his Ph.D., between 2007 and 2014. . In his background interview, he indicates that he erroneously claimed State 1 as his residence one year and was therefore assessed tax on his income.  In his answer, he said that, while he admitted the debt, it is “in adjudication” and  that  his  “income”  was  actually  an  educational  stipend.    He  provides  no documentation  to  support  either  the  fact  of  the  dispute  or  the  validity  of  his  assertion. However, the tax lien appears to be an isolated circumstance. With  his interrogatory  response,  Applicant  provided  an  October 2020  pay  stub  from his employer. At that time, he  earned  $56.39  per hour and  worked  full  time.  With  a  40- hour  work   week,  he   would  earn  $2,255.60   per  week,  and   $117,291.20   per  year  .  It is presumed  that he  earns  a  similar income  now,  a  year and  a  half later,  working   for  the   same   employer,  his  clearance   sponsor,  though   this  is  not documented. With his answer, Applicant provided no documentation about any efforts to pay or resolve any of his debts, either through the debt relief program or otherwise. He provided no updated information about his current financial stability. He also did not respond to the FORM, so the only information about his financial situation is taken from prior information. 3 