In Applicant’s SOR response, he denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.  He also provided mitigating information. He made some partial admissions in his SOR response. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  industrial  engineer  who  has  worked  for  the  same defense contractor since 2013.  In 2006, he graduated from high school, and  in  2012,  he  received  a  bachelor’s  degree.    His  bachelor’s  degree  was  in industrial  and  systems  engineering.    The  trend  in  his  grades  has  been  towards improved grades.  His grades in graduate school have been excellent.  He is in the process of earning a master’s degree in engineering technical management.    He  has never served  in  the  military.    In  2019, he married,  and  he  does  not  have  any  children.    There  is  no  evidence  of  security violations, employee discipline, arrests, or alcohol abuse. Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from about 2010  to  at  least  June  2021.  His  marijuana  use  continued  after  he  received  access  to classified information in April 2020. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant used  LSD with varying frequency from about  2016 until at least February 2021. His LSD use continued after he received access to classified information in April 2020. 2 Applicant’s first and second marijuana use occurred when he was in college.   When  his  employer  hired  him  in  2013,  he  received  a  drug  screen,  which  he passed.  As part of in-processing at his employment, he probably received a briefing or written materials about not using illegal drugs.  He said the company requests  that  employees  not  use  illegal  drugs.    Over  one  six-year  period,  he received three random drug screens or tests, and he did not test positive on any of them.   During  a  subsequent  period,  he  used  marijuana  once  or  twice  a  month  on weekends and during off-duty hours.  Applicant’s employer’s policy specifically prohibits any use of marijuana regardless of state laws that authorize its use.  The drug policy also prohibits possession of any illegal or controlled substance.  Applicant denied that he intentionally violated his employer’s policy prohibiting use of illegal drugs.  He was only vaguely aware that his employer prohibited illegal drug use; however, he was aware that possession of marijuana  and  LSD  violated  federal  law.    There  is  currently  marijuana  in  his residence; however, he said it was his spouse’s marijuana.  Applicant did not disclose his possession and use of any illegal drugs on his April 7,  2020  SCA.    On  May  7,  2020,  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management   investigator interviewed Applicant, and he said that from 2010 to May 1, 2020, he used marijuana on average every two or three months.  He received the marijuana from friends, acquaintances, and his spouse.  From 2016 to present, he used LSD four times with his most recent LSD use occurring in mid-April 2020.  His spouse provided the LSD to him.  He explained that his failure to disclose his illegal drug use on his SCA  occurred  because  he  hurried  through  the  SCA  and  had  difficulty  completing  it because of computer problems.  Applicant said the most reliable information about the extent of his marijuana use was during his OPM interview.  His most recent marijuana use was “before June of 2021.”  He could not provide the specific date he most recently used marijuana.  Applicant first used LSD in 2016, and during his lifetime, he used LSD a total five times.  His most recent LSD use was on February 13, 2021.  On February 13, 2021, he used LSD that his spouse provided to him as a “bonding experience.”  He  did not  use  LSD  with  the  intention of  violating  his employer’s  rules  or federal law.  Applicant  has  never  purchased  marijuana.    His  spouse  occasionally purchases marijuana.  His spouse uses marijuana. He associates with her, and she is involved in use of illegal drugs.  He told his wife not to give him illegal drugs in  the  future.    He  does  not  intend  to  use  illegal  drugs  in  the  future  because possession of a security clearance and career opportunities are “far more important” than his desire to continue to use illegal drugs.  The Defense Information System for Security  indicates Applicant received an interim secret clearance on April 14, 2020.  In August 2020, Applicant signed a 3 non-disclosure agreement in connection with his access to classified information, and at that  time,  Applicant  learned  he  had  an  interim  security  clearance.   However, he  did not  actually  receive  access  to  any  classified  information  because  the information  he  needed  to  access  was  top  secret,  and  the  interim  clearance  was insufficient for him to have access to top secret information.  Applicant has not received any drug-related counseling or therapy.  Character Evidence Applicant’s  character  evidence  supports  approval  of  his  access  to  classified information.  He  received  positive  performance  evaluations,  which  indicate  he  is  an outstanding  employee  who  has  made  important  contributions  to  the  success  of  his employer.  He is an intelligent, talented, professional, and diligent high performer who is an innovative problem solver.  His credit report does not contain any negative financial information.  His credit score is 761.  From  2013  to  2017, he  paid about  $27,000 in  student  loans.   He  cares for his mother, who was injured in a fall in 2021.  The general sense of his letters of recommendation is that he is trustworthy, diligent, professional, responsible, reliable, and  intelligent.    He  has  outstanding  communication  skills, judgment, and leadership.  