Applicant  admitted  all  four  allegations  under  Guideline  G   without  comment.  He  did  not  answer  the  cross-allegation  under  Guideline  J  ,  but  since  it  is  a  cross-allegation  I  deem  it  admitted.  Applicant’s  SOR  admissions are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is 33 years old.  He graduated from high  school in 2006 and attended four years of apprentice school  and some community college.  He and his wife have been married since 2007. They have three sons, ages 12, 9, and 8.  Applicant has worked for a large defense contractor at a naval shipyard since 2006.  He has held a clearance for most of his career.  On  his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  a  May  2019  DWI  arrest  and  disclosed  that  he had  received  a  “one-year  suspension”  as  a  result.    He  discussed  the  offense and  the  resulting  requirements  in  a  July  2020  background  interview,  the  summary  of which he authenticated as accurate in a May 2021 interrogatory response.  Applicant  discussed  the  circumstances  of  his  DWI  arrest    in  his background interview.  In May 2019, he had been at a local bar and consumed four or five  mixed  drinks  over  a  three- or  four-hour  period.  He  was  pulled  over  while  driving home. The officer smelled alcohol on his breath and requested that Applicant submit to a breathalyzer, which he refused. Applicant was arrested and detained overnight.  Applicant  acknowledged  during  his  interview  that  he  had  been  intoxicated.  He went  to  court,  retained  counsel,  and  pleaded  guilty  to  DWI  in  September  2019.  His license  was  restricted  for  one  year,  he  was  placed  on  one  year  of  unsupervised probation,  and  he  was  required  to  participate  in  alcohol  safety  classes.  He  was  also fined. He was also required to have an ignition interlock device placed on his car and to 2 report  monthly  so  his  compliance  could  be  tested.    Applicant  was  also ordered to complete 10 weeks of alcohol education classes between October 2019 and December 2019.  Between December 2019 and October 2020, Applicant incurred four violations of his  ignition  interlock  device.  As  a  result,  he  was  considered  non-compliant  with  his alcohol  education  program  on  two  occasions,  in  July  2020  and  August  2020.  The ignition  interlock  program  was  extended  for  six  months  and  he  was  ordered  to  attend substance abuse treatment.   After  his  first  ignition  interlock  violation  in  December  2019,  Applicant  was required to participate in an alcohol assessment. . In February 2020, his assessor concluded that he did not meet criteria for alcohol treatment.  Following his additional ignition interlock violations, Applicant was re-assessed in December  2020.  He  indicated  to  the  assessor  that  “his  time  was  extended  for  an additional six months” , which I interpret  as an  extension  of  his probation to  March  2021  . When he was assessed, he met 3 of the 11 criteria for alcohol use disorder, mild .  Applicant was also re-enrolled in the alcohol safety program. He met the criteria for an additional ten weeks of treatment and alcohol awareness education.     He  completed  that  treatment  program  in  March  2021,  as  required, through an on-line meeting platform.  Applicant  discussed  his  alcohol  history  in  his  background  interview.  He  began drinking at about age 18, at least sporadically. From age 21 until May 2019, the time of his DWI, he consumed four to seven drinks of liquor or beer about three or four times a week. Since his DWI, his drinking had decreased to three or four  drinks about once or twice  a  week  at  the  time  of  his  interview  in  July  2020.    As  of  May  2021, Applicant reported that he no longer consumed alcoholic beverages and does not intend to do so in the future.  In his December 2021 FORM Response, Applicant added little new information. He noted that he understood DOD’s concerns. He asked that his 15-year career with his employer be considered, including with a clearance, and said the events of the last two years are not who he has been in the past or is today.  