Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer since about June 2018. He is applying for a security clearance for the first time. He is either a college graduate or just a few credits short of a degree. He is divorced with three children.  at 50, 72; GE 1) Applicant  has  a  history of  substance  abuse  and  criminal offenses  related  to  his substance abuse. He became addicted to prescription opioid painkillers after he injured his  back  sometime  between  about  2008  and  2011,  resulting  in  significant  pain.  The physician’s  assistant  who  prescribed for overprescribing “oxycodone, hydrocodone, and other controlled substances” to patients he  was  treating  for pain  management.  Applicant’s  addiction  led  to doctor shopping for prescriptions,  alcohol  abuse,  employment  issues,  marital  difficulties,  and  financial problems. In addition to the opioid painkillers, he would sometimes drink between a pint and  a  fifth  of  vodka  a  day  .   the  medication  was later  sanctioned Applicant was arrested in May 2013 and charged with two felony counts of falsely obtaining  a  prescription  in  December  2012  .  The  essence  of  the offense is that he obtained a prescription for a controlled substance from one provider without  informing  the  provider  that  he  also  received  the  controlled  substance  from another source. He pleaded guilty on June 11, 2013, to falsely obtaining a prescription. The second count was dismissed. He was sentenced to up to five years in prison, which was  suspended  upon  his  completion  of  probation  for  36  months,  and  included conditions  that  he  complete  substance  abuse  treatment,  and  not  possess  or  use controlled  substances  or  alcohol.  The  felony  was  reduced  by  the  court  to  a misdemeanor  in  December  2017.   Applicant  was  arrested  in  August  2013  and  charged  with  six  felony  counts  of falsely obtaining a prescription between April 1, 2013, and June 10, 2013 .  He  pleaded  guilty  in  October  2013  to  three  felony  counts  of  falsely  obtaining  a prescription.  The  three  remaining  counts  were  dismissed.  In  January  2014,  he  was sentenced  to  up  to  five  years  in  prison  and  $15,000  in  fines.  The  prison  term  and $14,397  of  the  fine  were  suspended  upon  his  completion  of  probation  for  36  months. Conditions  of  his  probation  included  a  drug  and  alcohol  evaluation  and  completion  of any  recommended  substance  abuse  treatment,  and  to  not  possess  or  use  controlled substances  or  alcohol.  The  felonies  were  reduced  by  the  court  to  misdemeanors  in February 2018.  Applicant  continued  to  abuse  opioid  painkillers  and  alcohol  notwithstanding  the two  convictions  and  probation.  He  completed  a  36-day  inpatient  substance  abuse treatment  program  from  about  February  2014  to  April  2014.  He  reported  that  he  was drinking between a pint and a fifth of vodka a day  with the opioids. He was diagnosed with  alcohol  dependence  and  opioid  dependence  .  He  was 2 advised  to  remain  abstinent  from  alcohol  and  recommended  upon  discharge  for aftercare  and  outpatient  treatment.   Applicant  did  not  follow  through  on  aftercare  or  outpatient  treatment,  and  he relapsed after leaving the treatment facility. He found that alcohol enhanced the effects of the opioids. He was driving under the influence of opioids and alcohol when he  was arrested in May 2014. His blood alcohol concentration  was about two and a half times  the  legal limit.  He  was  charged  with  driving under the  influence  of  alcohol/drugs . He pleaded guilty to the lesser offense of impaired driving in May 2014. He was sentenced to 90 days in jail, with the 90 days suspended, and a fine .  In  June  2014,  Applicant  was  found  in  violation  of  his  probation  for  the  2013 convictions,  and  his  probation  was  revoked  and  restarted.  He  was  sentenced  to  150 days  in  jail  for  the  June  2013  conviction,  with  all  but  three  weeks  served  at  a  work release facility . He was sentenced to 365 days in jail for the August 2013 conviction, with all but three weeks served at a work release facility .  After  he  completed  the  work-release  program,  Applicant  resumed  abusing alcohol  and  opioids,  including  oxycodone,  morphine,  and  fentanyl  . From about April 2015 to June 2015, he used heroin  during a period that he could not obtain  the prescription opioids.  Heroin was  also  cheaper than the prescription opioids. .  In  June  2015,  he  checked  into  the  same  substance  abuse  treatment facility for inpatient treatment for 45 days. He was diagnosed with alcohol dependence and  opioid  dependence  .  The  facility  certified  that  he  successfully completed the inpatient program in July 2015. He was then provided a 45-day aftercare program. He was advised to remain abstinent from alcohol and opioids. In August 2015, he successfully completed a workout-based life coaching program.  Applicant did not use heroin after his discharge from the facility, but he returned to  abusing  alcohol  and  opioids,  including  fentanyl  .  He  was  again  driving under the influence of opioids and alcohol when he was arrested in December 2015. His BAC  was  about  two  times  the  legal  limit.  He  was  charged  with  DUI  and  alcohol- restricted  driver.  In  March  2016,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI,  and  the  alcohol-restricted driver charge was dismissed. He was sentenced to four days in jail and a fine .  There  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant  has  used  any  illegal  controlled  substances after 2016. His  parents,  who  could  always  tell when  he  was  using,  have not observed any indication of use in years. He returned to the workout-based program in 2016. He enrolled  in  a  90-day  workout  and  addiction-recovery  program  in  March  2019.  The program  “requires  at  least  90  days  of  commitment  to  strenuous  activity,  dedication  to sobriety, and active involvement in [their] fitness, nutritional, spiritual, and life coaching curriculum.”  He  continues  to  be  actively  involved  in  the  program,  and  he  sees  a 3 therapist   unrelated   to   that  program.  He   has  learned   to   deal  with   his  back  pain   with ibuprofen   and   an   active   lifestyle.   He  is  motivated   by   his  children   and   his  faith   to   stay clean.  He  has   disassociated   himself   from   drug-using   associates  and   contacts,  and   he passed   numerous  drug   tests.   He  signed   a  statement  of  intent   to   abstain  from   all   drug involvement  and   substance   misuse,  acknowledging   that  any   future  involvement  or misuse  is grounds  for revocation  of national security  eligibility.   In  2020,  Applicant  was  prescribed  a  prescription  opioid  to  deal  with  pain  in  a tooth before a root canal . He did not enjoy the experience and did not use the  drugs  again  after  the  procedure  was  completed.  He  stated  that  he  has  not  had cravings for opioids in four or five years, and the short use of a prescription medication in 2020 did not change that.  Applicant stated that he does not believe that alcohol was ever his real problem, and  that  he  never  really  enjoyed  large  amounts  of  alcohol.  As  such,  he  does  not  feel that  he  has  to  completely  abstain.  He  describes  his  drinking  as  occasional  and responsible. He stated that his last drink was in November 2021 .  Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions    in August  2018.  He  reported  most  of  his  substance  abuse  and  criminal  history,  but  he intentionally  failed  to  report  his  heroin  use  .  He  admitted  that  he  felt,  and continues to feel, shame about his heroin use.  Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  June  2019.  He discussed  his  addiction  to  opioid  painkillers,  including  oxycodone,  but  he  did  not mention heroin use. He admitted heroin use in interrogatories in January 2020 after he was specifically asked about heroin use as documented in records obtained by the DOD from  the  substance  abuse  treatment  facility  where  Applicant  was  treated  in  2014  and 2015. He admitted at his hearing that if the DOD did not know about his heroin use, he would  be  conflicted  and  it  would  be  very  hard  to  discuss  it,  even  at  his  hearing.  He clarified that if he was directly asked about his heroin use, he would be honest.   Applicant  called  three  witnesses,  and  he  submitted  documents  and  letters attesting to his excellent job performance and strong moral character. He is praised for his dedication, reliability, competence, enthusiasm, attention to detail, leadership, work ethic,  trustworthiness,  and  integrity.   4 