Applicant is a 56-year-old married man with two adult children. After graduating from college in 1990, he joined the U.S. Air Force  where he served for 20 years until retiring honorably in 2011.  While in the USAF, he flew aircraft. After retiring, he worked as a pilot for two commercial aircraft companies. Since August 2019, he has been working for a defense contractor as an aircraft lab test director.  Applicant  has  a  drinking  problem.  Between  1983  and  2018,  he  consumed approximately 10 to 14 alcohol drinks daily.  Applicant’s alcohol consumption resulted in a 1985 arrest for driving under the influence. He later pled guilty to the lesser charge of driving while ability impaired.  Applicant’s alcohol abuse also led to family problems, as it caused his wife to temporarily separate from him in 2013.  Applicant frequently flew airplanes while intoxicated, both in his military and civilian career. He would sometimes drink up to a bottle of alcohol the night before flying.   He  was  fired  from  both  of  his  commercial  piloting  jobs  for  showing  up  to  work intoxicated.    On  the  second  instance,  a  Transportation  Security Administration  agent smelled alcohol on his breath as he was passing through the airplane checkpoint. The TSA agent then contacted the TSA supervisor, who called the police. Upon arriving, the police administered a field sobriety test.  The test revealed that Applicant’s blood alcohol content was three times the state limit for driving an automobile.  The police then escorted Applicant from the airplane. Consequently, the airline had to cancel the flight, deplane the passengers, and reschedule them for later flights.  This  episode  prompted  the  acting  administrator  of  the  Federal  Aviation Administration to issue an emergency order revoking Applicant’s airman certificates.  Subsequently, Applicant was fired.  In  November  2018,  after  Applicant’s  termination,  he  checked  into  an  inpatient alcohol  treatment  facility.    He  attended  inpatient  treatment  for  30  days, followed by outpatient treatment once a week for eight weeks.  In January 2019, he was diagnosed with severe alcohol dependence.  As part  of  his  treatment,  he  received  individual  and  group  therapy.    He satisfactorily completed the inpatient treatment program.  Applicant has been clean and sober since checking into the alcohol treatment facility in November 2018. He attends Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings regularly, as well as 2 therapy sessions.  He characterizes himself as “a better, more reliable, and more trustworthy person” since he stopped drinking alcohol.  