Applicant is a 31-year-old civilian of a defense contractor who seeks eligibility to hold  a  public  trust  position.  The  admitted allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as relevant and material findings. Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married  in May  2020  and  has two  children  from  this marriage.     He  earned   a   high   school  diploma   and   but   reported   attendance   of  college classes  between   August  2013   and   June   2014,   and   between   February   2015   and   May 2016.   He  reported  no  military service.   Since  2020,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer  as  an application  support  technician.    Previously,  he  worked  for  other employers in various types of  jobs.  He reported brief periods of  unemployment between 2009 and 2016.  2 Applicant’s finances Between  2010  and  2016,  Applicant  accumulated  a  number  of  delinquent  debts , exceeding $27,000.  He attributed the debt delinquencies to family deaths, recurrent unemployment, and employment transitions.  In  2018,  Applicant  entered  into  a  debt  consolidation  program  that  covered  the debts  alleged  to  be  delinquent  in  the  SOR.    For  several  months,  he  made regular  monthly  payments  totaling  less  than  $700.    By  2019, Applicant  was  struggling  with  his  finances  again  and  ceased  making  payments  under his debt consolidation plan.  Since  letting his debt consolidation plan lapse, he has  made  no  documented  payments  on  any  of  his SOR-listed  debts.   While several  of  the  alleged delinquent  debts  have  since  fallen  off  his  credit  reports,  he  has provided  no  documentation  of  his  making  any  payments  on  these  debts  before  their removal.  Applicant’s cited efforts to reach settlement agreements with creditors covered by SOR  ¶¶  1.a  ,  1.b  ,  1.e  ,  1.f  ,  and  1.i    were unsuccessful.    Each  of  these  creditors  wanted  more  money from Applicant than he could afford at the time.  Asked about the debts covered  by  SOR  ¶¶  1.g  and  1.i-1.t,  Applicant  could  either  not  recall  any  of  these reported debts or he could not verify them as unpaid debts.  However, each of these SOR-listed debts are revealed in his credit reports to be debts opened by him individually  and  subsequently  charged  off.    Based  on  the  advice given  him  by  his  credit  consolidation  firm,  he  never  paid  or  otherwise  resolved  these covered these debts.  Two  of  the  listed  debts  covered  by  the  SOR    involve  the same creditor and a single default on a reported rental apartment in March 2015.  are reported duplicates of the same rental apartment debt.  The landlord  creditor  reportedly  filed  for  monetary  relief  in  March  2015  and  obtained  a favorable judgment September 2016 in the amount of $1,190.  Applicant  characterized  the  two  debts as  duplicates  and  the  credit reports corroborate his claims of duplication of these two debts.  Only  one  of  the  listed  SOR  debts    has  Applicant  been  able  to  satisfy  with  a  documented  payoff.    Applicant resolved this medical debt with a series of monthly payments between November 2016 and March 2022.  Several  aged  and  small  debts    listed  in  the  SOR  could  either  not  be  recalled  by  Applicant  or  were believed to have been resolved and no longer listed in his latest credit report .    He  provided  no  documentary  proof  that  these  listed  debts  in  his credit reports were either paid or otherwise favorably resolved. Applicant  nets  approximately  $3,900  a  month  from  his  job.    Before taking  maternity  leave,  his  wife  earned  $2,030  a  month.    With  his  wife’s expected additional income when she returns to her job , Applicant expects to net over $6,000 a month.  He has a current  checking  account  balance  of  approximately  $1,300.    And,  he  has  a 401  retirement  account  funded  by  around  $100,  but  he  has  not  made  any contributions  to  the  account  in  more  than  two  years.    He  has  no  savings account and has not benefitted from any financial counseling services. Applicant  estimates  a  net  monthly  remainder  of  around  $500  after  meeting  his monthly  expenses.    Applicant’s  monthly  expenses  include  a  mortgage,  car payment,  utilities,  student  loan  payments,  and  payments  for  general  necessities.    After  allowing  for  all  of  his  monthly  expenses,  he  estimates  a  net  monthly remainder of around $500 on average.  