In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted most of the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d, and 2.a.  He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  information  system  security  officer    who  has worked for a DOD contractor for the previous eight years.  In 1999, he received a bachelor’s degree, and in 2003, he received a master’s degree in information systems management.    He  has  about  eight  security  or  information  technology certifications.  He served in the Air Force from 1987 to 2011, and he honorably retired as a master sergeant .  He has been married and divorced three times: from 1990 to 1991; from 1993 to 1994; and from 2009 to 2017.   He  has  one  12-year-old  child.    He  has  held  a  security  clearance continuously since he was age 18.  Alcohol Consumption and Psychological Conditions Department  Counsel  requested;  Applicant  did  not  object;  and  I  approved  an amendment to SOR ¶ 1.a, which now alleges: “You have consumed alcohol, at times in excess  and  to  the  point  of  intoxication  from  about  age  14  to  about  1998.  You  were 2 abstinent from about 1998 to 2018. You consumed alcohol from 2018 to June 30, 2021. On July 1, 2021, you resumed your sobriety.”  Applicant admitted he consumed alcohol at times excessively starting in about age 14  until  he  stopped  drinking  in  1998.    For  example,  when  he  was married the first time from 1990 to 1991, he “never took a sober breath.”  He drank at least one beer every other day, and he believed it takes 48 hours for a beer to get out of his system.  He attended some Alcoholics Anonymous   meetings during his first marriage and he stopped drinking during his first marriage; however, his first wife continued to consume alcohol.  During the years when Applicant was consuming alcohol, he continued to do so even  though  he attended  some  AA meetings.   Some  of  his  periods  of  sobriety were for a few days, sometimes he was sober for several weeks or for several months.  He told himself “I’m going to quit drinking and then [he] would like forget and [he] would  start  drinking  again.  [He]  would  forget  that  [he]  quit.”    He  would  resume drinking, and then go through the same process of quitting and restarting. He was “in and out through a revolving door” for several years.  Applicant  said  he  resumed alcohol consumption  after 20  years of  abstinence  in 2018,  because  he  stopped  attending  AA  meetings;  he  was  divorced;  and  he  was  in recovery from surgery for a deviated septum.  After his surgery, he received a pain  medication  which  reduced  his  inhibition  against  drinking  alcohol.    His mother passed away.  In 2018, he gradually increased the frequency of his alcohol consumption until he was drinking on a daily basis.  At his worst, he was drinking 10 drinks a day on weekends.  During a May 6, 2020 Office of Personnel Management  interview, Applicant disclosed he was drinking one to six drinks per day, five or six days a week.  He told the OPM investigator that he did not believe he had a drinking problem. Id. He drank to intoxication about once a week.  He did not drink during the work day; however, sometimes he worked into the evenings and drank alcohol during a break, and then  he  resumed  working.    It  did  not  occur  to  Applicant  that  his  alcohol consumption was a security issue.  He had some alcohol-related blackouts in the late 1980s and the 1990s.  On June 30, 2021, he was thinking about his security clearance on the eve of his psychological evaluation, and he “got really drunk.”  The next day, he concluded he definitely needed to abstain from alcohol consumption.  His most recent alcohol-related blackout was on June 30, 2021.  In July 2021, he resumed attendance at AA meetings.  He started working with a sponsor and the 12-step AA program.  At the time of his hearing, he attended one to three AA meetings a week.  Applicant does not see a medical or mental-health person to address his alcohol consumption.  He has been taking a prescription drug for depression for 15 years.  His  general practitioner renews  his prescription for depression.   He has been “totally sober” since July 1, 2021.  No medical person ever told him he 3 should remain sober; however, at AA meetings they recommend complete abstinence.  SOR  ¶   1.b   alleges   Applicant   sustained   an   alcohol-related  bruise  to   his foot   and sought medical attention. In  1994, Applicant blacked  out from  alcohol consumption, fell, and  injured  his foot.   He was diagnosed  as alcohol dependent; however, he  did  not believe  the  treating  physician  recommended  that he  not consume  alcohol.   Applicant  said  he  was treated  for an  injury  to  his foot,  and  released.   He  was not  hospitalized.     He  was  referred   to   and   successfully   completed   an   Air   Force alcohol-counseling  program.   He complied  with  the  order to  abstain  from alcohol consumption  while  he  was enrolled  in  the  Air  Force alcohol-counseling  program, and  then  he  resumed  his alcohol consumption  after he  completed  the  Air  Force  alcohol- counseling  program.  SOR ¶  1.c alleges in 1998  Applicant received  alcohol treatment.  In  1998, Applicant drank  a few  beers and a  couple  of martinis, and he  could  not function.   He asked some   teenagers  to   help  him   get  home.    They   refused.  He  was  stumbling   and falling.    A   good   Samaritan   drove   him   home.    He   could  not  lay   down because  the  room  was spinning.   He called  his supervisor’s supervisor, and  told him  he  had  a  drinking  problem  and  needed  help.   He received  outpatient alcohol counseling  after work and  on  weekends about three  days a  week for three  months.   He successfully completed  this alcohol-counseling program.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges a licensed psychologist diagnosed Applicant with Alcohol Use Disorder Severe. The psychologist indicated Applicant’s current condition will likely impair his  judgment,  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  his  ability  to  safeguard  classified information. On July 26, 2021, Andrea Graves, Psy.D., evaluated Applicant at the request of the DCSA CAF.  Applicant provided some corrections to the facts in Dr. Graves’ report,  and  I  find  his  corrections  to  the  facts  in  the  report  to  be  truthful  and  accurate; however,  his  corrections  about  the  timing  or  location  of  events  or  circumstances  are insufficient to impeach her diagnosis of Alcohol Use Disorder Severe.  For mental status, Dr. Graves concluded Applicant was average to above average in most respects.  There is no evidence of suicidal  or homicidal ideations, paranoid thinking, delusional thought processes, or psychosis.  Id. She criticized his decisions to stop taking medically necessary medications for cholesterol and blood pressure when he resumed drinking. Id. at 6. She characterized his decision to stop taking his medications as possibly being “passively suicidal,” but noted his insistence that he wanted to stay alive for his son. Id. at 6. At his hearing, Applicant assured he checked his blood pressure on a daily basis, and due to loss of weight, his health had improved to the extent that taking blood pressure and cholesterol medications are unnecessary. Dr. Graves indicated Applicant had been abstinent from alcohol consumption for about one month and attended two AA meetings a day. GE 3 at 5. Applicant disagreed with the psychologist’s conclusions that his history of alcohol consumption “likely impairs his judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to safeguard classified information.” 4 Id. at 6. He considered the impact of his alcohol consumption on his ability to safeguard classified  information  not  “to  be  a  big  deal  at  all.”    After  he  received  the psychologist’s  report,  he  acknowledged,  “This  looks  really  bad.”    He  described himself as stable and responsible.  Applicant promised  to  stop  drinking  alcohol while  holding  a  security  clearance.  He intends to  continue  attending  AA  meetings and  maintain his sobriety  even  if  his security  clearance  is revoked.   He  has never been  arrested  or  convicted  of any alcohol-related   offense.  There  is   no   evidence   of  security   violations  or  abuse   of  illegal drugs. SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges the same information in SOR ¶ 1.a under Guideline I. The DSM-5 criteria for diagnosis of alcohol-use disorder at the follow levels: mild ;  moderate  ;  and  severe  are as follows: A.  A  problematic  pattern  of  alcohol  use  leading  to  clinically  significant impairment  or  distress  as  manifested  by  at  least  two  of  the  following, occurring within a 12-month period: 1. Alcohol is often taken in larger amounts or over a longer period than was intended. 2. There is a persistent desire or unsuccessful efforts to cut down or control alcohol use. 3. A great deal of time is spent in activities necessary to obtain alcohol, use alcohol, or recover from its effects. 4. Craving, or a strong desire or urge to use alcohol. 5. Recurrent alcohol use resulting in a failure to fulfill major role obligations at work, school, or home. 6.  Continued  alcohol  use  despite  having  persistent  or  recurrent  social  or interpersonal problems caused or exacerbated by the effects of alcohol. 7. Important social, occupational, or recreational activities are given up or reduced because of alcohol use. 8. Recurrent alcohol use in situations in which it is physically hazardous. 9.  Alcohol  use  is  continued  despite  knowledge  of  having  a  persistent  or recurrent  physical  or  psychological  problem  that  is  likely  to  have  been caused or exacerbated by alcohol. 10. Tolerance, as defined by either of the following: a.  A  need  for  markedly  increased  amounts  of  alcohol  to  achieve intoxication or desired effect. b.  A  markedly  diminished  effect  with  continued  use  of  the  same amount of alcohol. 11. Withdrawal, as manifested by either of the following: a. The characteristic withdrawal syndrome for alcohol . 5 b. Alcohol  is taken to relieve or avoid withdrawal symptoms DSM-5 at 490-491; HE 5. 