Applicant is  38  years old and  has never married. He  has  two  children,  ages  11  and 12. He enlisted in the  U.S. Navy  in 2003  at age 20. He received an  Honorable discharge in August  2012.  After separating  from the  Navy, Applicant  took some  college  courses in 2013  and  was unemployed  until January  2014. Since  February  2014, he  has worked  for a   Government  contractor as  a   specialist.   He   was  granted   national security   eligibility   in 2002  and  2014.  He seeks to  retain  his  eligibility  and a  security  clearance  in  connection with  his  employment.   Paragraph 1   The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR lists  13  debts  that  are  charged-off  or  in  collection.  The  total  amount  of  the  debts  is approximately  $19,000.  The  existence  and  amount  of  these  debts  is  supported  by Applicant’s admissions in his Answer to all but two SOR allegations , and by credit reports in the record dated March 15, 2022; May 6, 2021; and February 14, 2020.  The  debts  are  also  confirmed  by  Applicant’s  answers  to  interrogatories  and comments  made  during  an  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  held on May 12, 2020.  Applicant  advised  that  his  financial  delinquencies  consisted  of  unpaid  student loans and some additional debts that arose due to his addiction to gambling. He wrote that the mother of his children demanded that he stop  gambling and he has complied. Before he stopped gambling, he was unable to pay all of his bills, including the consumer debts listed in the SOR.  2 The details of the 13 debts are as follows: 1.a. Retail store credit account charged off in the approximate amount of $4,515. Applicant has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  1.b. Student loan account in collection in the approximate amount of $4,135. In his Answer, Applicant wrote that he “forgot to get a forbearance for [this student loan].” He has made no attempt to repay this loan. This debt is not resolved.  1.c. Student loan account in collection in the approximate amount of $3,416. In his Answer, Applicant wrote that he “forgot to get a forbearance for [this  student loan].” He has made no attempt to repay this loan. This debt is not resolved.  1.d. Student loan account in collection in the approximate amount of $1,909. In his Answer, Applicant wrote that he “forgot to get a forbearance for [this student loan].” He has made no attempt to repay this loan. This debt is not resolved.  1.e. Student loan from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs in collection in the approximate amount of $644. He has made no attempt to repay this loan. This debt is not resolved.  1.f. Student loan account in collection in the approximate amount of $631. In his Answer, Applicant wrote that he “forgot to get a forbearance for [this student loan].” He has made no attempt to repay this loan. This debt is not resolved.  1.g. Cable TV/Internet account in collection in the approximate amount of $560. Applicant claimed in his Answer that he never had an account with this service provider. In his response to the Government’s interrogatories, he claimed he resolved this debt by returning the equipment, but the debt was never removed from his account. He is unable to provide any supporting documentation. This debt appears on Applicant’s credit report, dated February 14, 2020, as unpaid. This is not resolved.  1.h. Credit-card account charged off in the approximate amount of $537. Applicant opened this account in 2015 and defaulted in the same year. He has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  1.i. Account charged off in the approximate amount of $168. Applicant has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  3 1.j. Online retail account charged off in the approximate amount of $599. Applicant has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  1.k.  Fitness  club  account  in  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $664. Applicant has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  1.l. Utility account in collection in the approximate amount of $431. Applicant has made no attempt to pay this debt. This debt is not resolved.  1.m.  Gambling  loan  account  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $412. Applicant claims that this debt was involuntarily paid by the garnishment of his wages. He has submitted no evidence of payment. The account appears on the credit report dated February 14, 2020. This debt is not resolved.  Applicant  submitted  no  documentation  or  additional  information  concerning  his debts or current income. Also, he provided no information detailing his plans for resolving his past-due indebtedness or demonstrating other indicia of trustworthiness. 