In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b, 2.a  through  2.f, and  2.h  through  2.j.   He denied  the  SOR allegations in ¶¶  2.g  and 2.k.   He  did  not  admit  or  deny   the   allegation   in  SOR  ¶   1.c.   He  provided   a   handwritten statement with  extenuating  and mitigating  information.   His admissions are accepted as  findings of  fact.   Applicant is a 39-year-old  mail-room  worker employed by  a  DOD contractor  since 2018.   He  has not  served  in the  military.  In  2003, he  received  a bachelor’s degree  in  physical education, and  in 2006, he  received  a  bachelor’s degree  in kinesiology  with  a  minor in psychology.  He played  college-level basketball.   His daughter is nine years old, and he is unmarried.  He  frequently visits the mother  of  his  daughter;  and   they   live   in  separate   apartments  in   the   same   apartment complex.  Applicant is current on  his child-support responsibilities.   He  has not received  any  disciplinary  action  from  his employer.   There is no  evidence  of abuse of illegal drugs.   In 2007, a truck hit Applicant.  He was severely injured, and he has screws in his arms and legs.  He had a head injury too.  There was a lengthy rehabilitation period.  The accident may have affected his memory.  He is working for a company which rehabilitates and assisted  disabled people, and the company provides employees for a government contractor.  2 Criminal Conduct SOR  ¶  2.a  alleges  in  about  2003,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with Contempt of Court for Failure to Appear or Complete Jury Service. Applicant admitted the allegation.  His mother paid the fine.  SOR  ¶  2.b  alleges  in  about  January  2009,  Applicant  was  found  guilty  of Trespassing,  Disorderly  Conduct,  and  Contempt  of  Court.  He  admitted  the  SOR allegation.  At his hearing, he said he could not remember the trespassing and  contempt  of  court  charges.    He  was  unsure  about  the  disorderly  conduct charge; however, he  remembers asking an officer a question about moving his friend’s car.  He received a citation and paid a fine.  He did not appear in court for  the  charge.    The  court  record  reflects  a  guilty  finding  and  $200  fine  for trespassing and a guilty finding and $200 fine for disorderly conduct.  SOR ¶ 2.c alleges in about March 2009, Applicant was charged with Contempt of Court, and he received a fine. The court docket indicates he was found guilty and received a $107 fine.  SOR  ¶  2.d  alleges  in  about  July  2009,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Public Drunkenness, tried in abstentia, found guilty, and fined $50.  He forfeited his cash bond.  He admitted the SOR allegation.  SOR  ¶  2.e  alleges  in  about  October  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving Under the Influence of alcohol , tried, and found guilty. Applicant admitted the SOR allegation.  Applicant said he only had one or two drinks.  At a road block, a police officer told Applicant to pull over.  He received a field sobriety test, and “he did the eye thing.”  He believed the request for a breathalyzer test was unfair because he was the only one required to do a breathalyzer test, and he refused the  proffered  breathalyzer test.   Applicant  testified  in  court  that  he  was  not drunk; however, he was found guilty of DUI, and his driver’s license was suspended until he  completed  an  alcohol-awareness  class.    He  completed  the  alcohol- awareness class about two months later, and his driver’s license was reinstated.  He said he was advised that the DUI conviction would be removed from his record after five years.  SOR  ¶   2.f   alleges  in   about  August   2013,  Applicant   was  arrested   for  Ran   Stop Sign/Light,   Seatbelt   Violation,  Driver  License   Suspended   for  DUI  ,  and   Disorderly Conduct-Failure to  Comply. Applicant said the  only  charge  with  a  guilty  finding  was the Ran  Stop  Sign/Light  offense.    The  court docket indicates in September 2013, he  was found  guilty  with  testimony  in open  court of Disorderly  Conduct-Failure to  Comply, and  he received a  $500  fine and other charges of  $182.  SOR ¶  2.g  alleges in about September 2013, Applicant was arrested  for Driver’s License   Suspended   for  Other  Reasons   and   DUI    No  Test.   Applicant  said   his driver’s license  was not suspended.  He denied  that he  was drinking  any alcohol  that day.  He refused  the  breathalyzer because  “why  should I have  to 3 breathe  every  time  I get pulled  over because  I  had  a  DUI three,  four years ago.”  Applicant said  he  “beat the  case” in   court.   Applicant  said the  police  officer who  arrested  him  left the  police  force,  and  the  case  was dismissed  because  the  officer “quit lying  about his involvement of  giving  [him] the  DUI.”   The  police  officer quit or retired  from  the  force because  “he  wasn’t going  to  participate  or involve  [himself] in messing  with  people’s lives.”  After his hearing, Applicant provided  an abstract of  court record, which states his attorney  “entered  guilty  plea  30  days to  appeal or pay  5 days  jail  and   10   mandatory   days  comm   service   .”  The  abstract also indicates the  other two  charges were  dismissed.  SOR ¶  2.h  alleges on  or about  October 26,  2014,  Applicant was arrested  for and then   subsequently   pleaded   guilty   to   Driver’s  License   Suspended   for  DUI    and Speeding.  Applicant said  he  was unaware his driver’s license  was suspended   after his second  DUI arrest,  and  at  the  time  of the  driving  with  suspended  license  arrest the  case related  to  the  second  DUI arrest in  2013  was still  pending  a  trial.   He  pleaded guilty to the  speeding  offense.  SOR ¶ 2.i alleges on or about October 29, 2014, Applicant was arrested for and then subsequently pleaded guilty to Driving While License Suspended for Other Reasons. The police record indicates he pleaded guilty at trial.  However, he said the only time his driver’s license was suspended was after the first DUI until he received the certificate showing he completed the alcohol-awareness class.  SOR ¶ 2.j alleges in about September 2015, Applicant pleaded guilty to Disorderly Conduct-Failure  to  Comply.  Applicant  said he  had  an  argument  with  the  mother of  his child.  A police officer wanted Applicant to leave the apartment he was sharing with the mother of his child, and Applicant refused to leave.  The police officer took Applicant to jail.  The police record indicates he pleaded guilty at arraignment.  The court docket indicates he was found guilty of Disorderly Conduct–Failure to Comply, and the court imposed a $500 fine and $172 in costs.  SOR ¶  2.k alleges in  about August  2018,  Applicant  was charged  with  Failure to Appear  and   Contempt,   after  he   knowingly  violated   a   court-issued   protective   order. Applicant received  an  order from  the  court  directing  him  not  to  contact the  mother of  his child  for 30  days.  He was authorized  to  speak to  her through  a  third  party.  Applicant went to  a  police  station  to  obtain  help getting  his clothes from  the  mother of his  child.      The   mother   of  his  child   works  at   the   police   station.    He thought the  police  would help him; however, he  was arrested for violation  of  a protective order.   The  charge  was dismissed  because  Applicant  did  not  understand  how  he could  get  his  clothing   returned   from   the   mother  of  his  child.    The   judge found  Applicant  did not understand the  parameters of the  protective  order.  Applicant  currently  has  a  good  relationship  with  the  mother  of  his child,  and  he speaks to her about every day.  They have meals together, and he described his relationship with her as “wonderful.”  4 Applicant does not consume any alcohol to a large extent.  He drinks alcohol about once a week.  He limits himself to consumption of one or two drinks.  He has not received any alcohol counseling after the alcohol-awareness class he received shortly after the October 2009 DUI arrest.  Personal Conduct SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege Applicant failed to disclose in his October 2, 2018 SCA the criminal offenses in the criminal conduct section, supra. SOR ¶ 1.c cross alleged the allegations in the criminal conduct section, supra. Section 22, Police Record, asks in the last seven years:  whether Applicant was issued a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding; however, fines  less  than  $300  for  offenses  unrelated  to  alcohol  or  drugs  are  not  reportable;   whether he had been arrested by any law enforcement official; and  whether he has been, charged, or convicted of any crime in any court.  Section 22,  Police  Record,  also  asks  whether  he  had  “EVER  been  charged  with  an  offense involving  alcohol  or  drugs.”  )  Applicant incorrectly answered, no, to these questions.  Applicant  said  he  received  assistance  completing  his  SCA,  and  he  answered everything  to  the  best  of  his  ability.    He  may  have  misunderstood  the questions.  He focused on the seven-year time limit in several questions.  He did not disclose the 2011 DUI because of the seven-year time limit, and the second DUI charge “shouldn’t be on [his] record anymore. I beat the case.”  He said he believed he did not have to disclose the second DUI arrest because it was thrown out in court.  Applicant understands the difference between an arrest, a charge, and a dismissed charge.  As to the August 2018 offense, Applicant acknowledged the  police  arrested  him  for  violation  of  the  protection  order,  but  he  did  not  disclose  it because he believed there should not have been a record of the offense and the charge was dismissed.  Applicant said he did not tell the person assisting him with completion of his SCA about the DUI arrest in 2014.  He told her about the arrest in 2018, and that the charge was dismissed, and she said “to put no and keep going.”  He did not ask  her  for  a  statement  corroborating  her  advice  about  not  disclosing  the  information about dismissed charges on his SCA prior to his hearing.  I suggested that he ask her for  a  statement  after  his hearing.    On  July  12,  2022,  the  director of  the entity assisting the developmentally disabled wrote “Our staff did not guide or direct his responses to the information which he provided” on his SCA.  On  April  24,  2019,  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management    investigator interviewed Applicant.  Applicant did not remember the interview.  The summary of  interview indicates Applicant disclosed the details of  his August 2018 arrest for violation of the protective order to the OPM investigator.  The OPM investigator confronted Applicant about several of his other arrests.  5 Applicant’s  sister  believes  Applicant  made   an   honest  good   faith   mistake   on   his SCA because  he  was focused  on  the  dismissal of the  charges and  not on  the  arrests.   He believed  the  seven  years elapsed  and  his first DUI  was outside  that  time  limit.  He was following  the  advice of  the  person  who  assisted  him  with  the  completion  of his SCA.  He did not intend or attempt to be deceptive.  Character Evidence Applicant gets along well with his coworkers.  He wants to provide financial support to his family.  On March 11, 2022, the director of a company assisting the developmentally disabled said Applicant “has performed his work in our mail room very well. We have seen no personal or employment related issues and do consider him to be of good character.”  On July 12, 2022, the director wrote that Applicant “has been an  excellent  employee”  and  there  were  no  known  issues  of  concern  pertaining  to  his security clearance.  Applicant’s sister said he has been able to live on his own in an apartment since he was hired to work in the mail room.  He has a separate apartment from the mother of his child.  He is trustworthy, and he does a good job in the mail room.  He has matured tremendously in the last several years.  