In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  SOR ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d, and  1.f.   He  denied   SOR  ¶¶   1.e   and   1.g.  He  also  provided   mitigating   information.  His admissions are accepted as  findings of fact.  Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a   29-year-old  software  engineer,  who   has   worked   for  a   DOD contractor  since  early  2019.   He is not  married, and  he  does  not have any  children.   In  2011, he  graduated  from  high  school,  and  President and  Mrs. Obama  signed  a  letter  congratulating  Applicant for his  Eagle Boy  Scout  award.    In   2016,   he   received   a   bachelor’s  degree   in  aerospace   engineering   with   a minor   in  mathematics;   and   in   2022,  he   completed   seven   of  ten   courses   towards  a master’s degree  in  aerospace  systems engineering.    He is in an engineering  honor society  which is limited  to  the  top  20  percent of  the  engineering  class.    His  resume   provides  additional  details  about  his  employment  and accomplishments.  2 Psychological Conditions Applicant was hospitalized the first time from May 6, 2011, to May 18, 2011, after he demonstrated bizarre and aggressive behavior.  Applicant believed that his behavior was a reaction to stress during his senior year of high school, which included schoolwork, movement to a different house, completion of his Eagle Boy Scout project, and testing for college admission.  He was living with a friend  while  his  parents  were  in  the  process  of  moving  into  a  different  house.   The psychosis appeared for the first time in 2011 when he was 17 years old, and Applicant contended the psychosis may have been related to lack of sleep.  Applicant was living with a friend, and he was not returning his mother’s telephone calls.    The  guidance  counselor  at  Applicant’s  high  school  observed  Applicant, who  had  an  unusual  breathing  tic.    The  guidance  counselor  asked Applicant questions, and he responded with his odd breathing tic.  The guidance counselor called for an ambulance, and Applicant struggled to avoid being placed on a stretcher.  The hospital could not diagnose the problem,  but recommended that he remain in the hospital.  At Applicant’s request and with his parents’ support, the hospital sent Applicant home.  While Applicant  was at his home,  he  was having  suicidal ideations.   “He  said  he wanted  to  kill himself.”  He was standing  in the  front yard and  not saying  anything else.   He was depressed  about his health, not being  at school, and  worried  about his future.    His mother called  an  ambulance,  and  they  called the  police.  Applicant was returned  to  the  hospital for the  second  time  and  remained  an  inpatient from   May   19,   2011,   to   June   2,  2011.    He  was  diagnosed   with   a psychosis.  Id.  He was prescribed  Zyprexa .  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d  allege  Applicant  was  hospitalized  to  treat  his  Psychotic Disorder for the third time from February 23, 2012, to March 5, 2012, and for the fourth time  from  March  12,  2012,  to  March  30,  2012.  The  context  of  the hospitalization  was medication noncompliance. He was diagnosed with Schizophrenia, Disorganized Type. In 2012, Applicant was 18 years old and a freshman in college.  He was receiving mental-health treatment.  His grades for the first semester were As and Bs.  He decided on his own, without informing his parents or mental- health  provider,  to  stop  taking  his  medication.    He  told  his  mental-health provider that he was in fact taking his medications.  He rationalized that he did not like the stigma of having a mental-health disorder; he did not like the side effects of the medication; and he believed he would be fine without the medication.  He believed if he was fine without the medication, then this would prove he did not need it.  In 2012, his mother slapped him, and Applicant slapped her back.  She was not knocked down, and she did not seek hospitalization.  The police were not called.  His grades were poor, and he was withdrawn.  After his release from inpatient treatment on March 30, 2012, Applicant  said he complied with the treatment recommendations of his mental-health provider from 2012 to 2017.  3 SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant was hospitalized for the fifth time from July 9, 2017, to  July  27,  2017,  after  he  reduced  his  antipsychotic  medication  against  his  doctor’s recommendation.  He  began  displaying  symptoms  of  psychosis,  including  homicidal ideations. He was diagnosed with Schizophrenia, disorganized, chronic. After  Applicant  received  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  2016,  he  was  doing  well professionally, and he was stable.  He was living with his parents.   His primary side effects from his medication were some drowsiness and a little weight gain.  The main reason he wanted to stop taking the medication was because of the stigma  associated  with  his  mental-health  disorder.    His  treating  physician recommended no change in his medication; however, Applicant wanted to see whether the medication was necessary.  He gradually reduced his medication level until he had completely stopped taking his medication.  The previous time he stopped taking his medication abruptly, and he believed if he gradually tapered off his medication, he  might  not  have  any  problems.    He  started  the  tapering  process  with  the assistance of his doctor, and then he quit “cold turkey” without his doctor’s agreement.  In  July 2017,  Applicant  was unable to sleep  for five consecutive days.  He had  a  delusion  that his  cat  could  talk to  him.   He  asked  God  what he  should  do, and  “the  thought occurred  to  [him] - - for some  reason, to  shoot  up  a  mall.”  He realized “that didn’t make any sense at all.” He described his  thoughts as “weird” and   things  would  “blur   together.”     He   told  his  parents  about   his  thought   about shooting  up  a  mall.  Applicant does not  own  any  firearms,  and  he  did not take  any steps,  such  as purchase  of a  firearm,  to  effectuate  the  shooting.   He went to  the emergency  room, and  told the  doctor about his homicidal thought.  He was admitted  for mental-health  treatment on  July  9, 2017,  for  the  fifth  time.    He said  he  has  been taking  15  to  20  milligrams of  Zyprexa  daily  ever since  July  2017.  He might miss a  day  occasionally  because  he  wants to  ensure he  wakes up  on  time  and  is not drowsy.  He is  currently  taking  15  milligrams of  Zyprexa  at night.   He has not been hospitalized  for mental-health treatment since 2017.  Applicant’s  mother  characterized  his  thoughts  about  shooting  up  a  mall  as  a “passive  ideation”  because  he  lacked  a  firearm,  ammunition,  and  a  detailed  plan  to effectuate this objective.  He has not had any suicidal or homicidal ideations since July 2017.  Applicant has analyzed the benefits and risks or costs of not taking prescribed medications, and he has determined it is best for him to continue taking his medications.  His mental-health provider indicated it is not unusual for patients diagnosed with a mental-health disorder not to accept the diagnosis and to stop taking their  medications  until  they  are  convinced  it  is  in  their  best  interests  to  take  their medications.  SOR ¶ 1.f alleges and Applicant agreed that in April 2019, Doctor D diagnosed Applicant  with  Schizophrenia  .    In  April  2019,  Nurse Practitioner W diagnosed Applicant with Delusional Disorder. Id. 4 SOR  ¶  1.g alleges  in October  2019,  Dr.  B, a  psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant with Schizoaffective Disorder, Bipolar Type. Applicant’s prognosis was guarded because he had stopped taking his medications in the past and Dr. B was not confident that he was receiving proper treatment for Schizophrenic and Bipolar symptoms. The DCSA CAF asked Dr. B to provide a mental-health assessment of Applicant.  Dr. B is a licensed clinical psychologist and a board-certified neuropsychologist. Id.  at  4.  Dr.  B  reviewed  Applicant’s  mental-health  records,  conducted  a  Personality Assessment treating  nurse  practitioner,  and interviewed Applicant. Id. at 1. Dr. B concluded: interviewed  Applicant’s Inventory, Although   [Applicant]   was  pleasant  and   seemed   honest  in  his  report  of symptoms  , my interview  of his treating  provider suggests [that]  he  has  not fully  disclosed his history  to  her. She  has diagnosed  him  only  with  delusional  disorder, and was unaware of  a  history  of  hallucinations,  mania,  or homicidal  ideation. Of course,  I  am  not  certain if this  was an  intentional  effort to  hide  information or if  his provider did not  thoroughly  gather historical information. His treating provider  also indicated  that he  is medication  compliant and  symptom-free, but  his  presentation   suggests  he   still   has   some   slightly   cloudiness  of thought that is likely  a symptom. He stated  that he  is medication  compliant, but is prescribed  only  Zyprexa. I would classify  his prognosis as guarded  at this time  because  he has stopped  his medications in the past and  I am  not confident that he  is receiving  proper treatment  for schizophrenia and  bipolar symptoms  . Therefore, judgment,   reliability,  or I  do   have   some   concerns  regarding   his trustworthiness.  Dr. B believed Applicant had not fully disclosed his symptoms, including mania, hallucinations,  and  homicidal  ideation  to  his  current  mental-health  provider.   Applicant said he provided his 1500-page mental-health record to Nurse Practitioner W; however, Nurse Practitioner W said she did not read all of it.  She said she read enough  to  understand  Applicant’s  mental-health  needs.    Applicant  was  “pretty sure”  he told her about his mania, homicidal ideation, other symptoms, and treatment.  Applicant was seeing a mental-health provider, including Nurse Practitioner W, for several  years  before  April  2022.    Applicant  was  studying  late  at  night  for  his master’s degree, and his medication made him sleepy.  He overslept and missed three appointments without warning his Mental-health provider.  The mental- health provider terminated treatment because he missed three scheduled appointments.  He claimed that he “rescheduled the appointments, and [he] still got the treatment.”  He said he made up every one of his appointments as soon as an appointment  became  available.    He  has  been  taking  the  same  medication since 2017.  He has not considered tapering himself off of his medication without medical approval since 2017.  He schedules his appointments in the afternoon to ensure he goes to his appointments.  5 On April 21, 2022, Applicant began seeing a new mental-health provider, Nurse S, and she is a Board Certified Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner .  On April 22, 2022, Nurse S said: [Applicant]   presented   as  stable,   admits   to   psychiatric  hx   of  psychosis. History  also includes inpatient care due  to  acuity  of  symptoms. [Applicant] has  consistently   been   stable  while   taking   medication,  currently  taking zyprexa     15   mg   daily,  a   medication   also  indicated   for depression   and   a   common   choice  when   insomnia   or  poor  sleep   is  also observed.   Speech   was  normal,  displayed   appropriate   mood   and   affect, thought  process  were  logical,  relevant.   Thought  content  was  normal,  no psychotic  thoughts.   Displays  realistic  judgment  and   normal   insight  into condition.  Normal  recent  and   remote   memory,  normal  attention   span. Normal language ability. Fund of knowledge included normal awareness of past and present events. Initial impression:  Unspecified  psychosis not  due  to  a  substance  or known physical condition   To  meet criteria  for schizophrenia or a  mood  disorder, client was questioned regarding   history   of   negative   symptoms,  manic   episodes,   depressive episodes. Client was negative  for history  of  symptoms to  meet criteria  for schizophrenia or a  mood d/o, such  as bipolar disorder. Although   the   client  admits  to   history   of   delusional  behavior,  symptoms emerged   briefly   during   periods  of  elevated   anxiety   and   disturbed   sleep. Differential   diagnosis   includes   insomnia/anxiety   disorder,   disturbed   sleep leading   to  presentation   of   psychotic features.   [Applicant]  has  consistently taken  medication  since  2011  , zyprexa's mechanism  of  action causes sedation  and  attempt to  taper and  discontinue  medication  must be monitored  for  rebound  insomnia  and  other common  symptoms  of tapering medication. is  excellent,   based   on   clinical assessment and history.   [Applicant’s]   prognosis Applicant  was  unsure  whether  he   mentioned   his  homicidal  ideation   in  2017   to Nurse  S.  Mania  is a  symptom  of  Bipolar disorder. Applicant claimed  that Nurse S  was aware of  Applicant’s mania; however, she  did not mention  his disclosure of  mania.  Applicant provided  his mental-health  records to  Nurse  S.  Applicant  did not know  why  Nurse  S  said,  “[Applicant]  has consistently  taken  medication  since  2011 ,”  and   Applicant  acknowledged   that   Nurse   S   was  incorrect.    Applicant believed his most accurate diagnosis is “Psychosis, Not Otherwise Specified.”   He  did  not  believe   schizophrenia   was  correct  because   he   did  not  have catatonia.    He  believed  his psychosis  surfaced  when  he  was under  stress.    However,  he   did  not  have   symptoms  when   he   was  under  stress  and   taking   his prescribed  medication.  6 Applicant believes he has a good job, is doing well in his master’s degree program, and enjoys his social community.  In 2019 and 2020, his employer  lauded  his  performance  in  his  evaluations.    He  has  assisted multiple volunteer organizations in his community.  He plays several sports, and he attends church.  He is a gifted musician.  Applicant  realizes  now   that  there   is  much   less  of   a   stigma   associated   with   his mental-health  disorder now  as  opposed  to  his belief of  a  significant  stigma  in 2017.    If  he  has  a  mental-health  problem or a  side-effect issue  with  his  medication, he  will seek advice and  assistance  from  his mental-health  provider.   His support  system is to regularly telephone his parents,  and he has a large network of friends.  His closest  friends  are  aware of his  mental-health  history  of psychosis, but  not about the  homicidal ideation.  His mother believes that Applicant’s best friend  would call her if  Applicant had  a  mental-health  issue.   His employer and  facility  security officer are aware of  his mental-health  issue.  He  is not  currently  in a  relationship with  anyone.   His mother believes Applicant will comply with  medical advice,  and he   is   nonviolent,   is   a   good   person   and   diligent  employee.     She recommended approval of  his security clearance.  I requested  a  list of all  of  Applicant’s appointments  for the  previous  year.   In  a  post-hearing  submission, Applicant  provided  evidence  of his appointments  from 2019  to 2022.    In  2019, Applicant  went  to  four appointments on April 17,  April 29, July  23, and  October 21. Id. In  2020, he  went to  four appointments on  January  13,  April 6, June  26,  and  September  5.  Id. In  2021,  he  went to  five  appointments  on  January  11, March 1, April 5, July  20, and  October 11. Id. He missed  appointments on  October 15, 2019; January  10, 2022; and  January  25, 2022. Id. He did  not attend  any  appointments from   October  12,  2021,  until  receiving   an   evaluation   from   Nurse   S   in  April  2022.  His billings  for  appointments  do   not  support  his   claim   that  he   made   up   all   of   the   missed appointments with  later appointments.  Id. He continued  to  received  his prescriptions for Zyprexa     15   mg   daily   despite   not  going   to   appointments  with   his  mental- health provider.  