In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  in  part  and  denied  in  part  the  SOR allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  2.a,  2.b,  2.c,  and  2.d.    He  also  provided  mitigating information.    His  admissions  are  accepted  as  findings  of  fact.  Additional  findings follow. Applicant is a 40-year-old senior technical management lead over a team of three, soon to be five employees, and they perform laboratory work in the area of logistics data for a DOD contractor.  He has worked for his current employer since 2014.  In 2000, he graduated from high school.  In 2003, he married, and his three children are ages 11, 16, and 18 years old.  His spouse was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and depression, and she sees a counselor and takes mental-health medication.  In 2000, Applicant joined the Army National Guard , and in 2003, he was activated and sent to Iraq for almost 12 months.   His military occupational specialty    was  information  systems  analyst  operator.    In  2008, Applicant received an honorable discharge from the ARNG.  Shortly after leaving the ARNG, he joined the Army Reserve, where he honorably served until his discharge due to expiration of his term of service  in 2018.  Applicant’s  Army Reserve  unit  had a  large  number of  senior noncommissioned officers, and Applicant as a sergeant  was required to do work that he considered inappropriate  for  someone  of  his  rank  and  experience.    Applicant  had  a medical profile and was unable to pass a physical training test.  When he left the 2 Army, he had 17 years of service towards retirement, and he was a sergeant.  Psychological Conditions SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant received mental-health treatment from October 2015 to  May  2017.  He  was  diagnosed  with  Opioid  Abuse,  uncomplicated,  and  Major Depressive Disorder, recurrent, moderate.  He was prescribed Zoloft, Trazadone, and Wellbutrin.  His prognosis vacillated between guarded and good. He decided to end his treatment shortly after a change in his medications. Applicant admitted he received the treatment described in SOR ¶ 1.a.   In about  2014,  he  consumed  his  spouse’s  prescription  anxiety  medication  three  or  four times a week until 2016 because he was feeling anxious.  He did not have a prescription for his own anxiety medication.  About four years ago, he also used his  mother-in-law’s  prescription  migraine  pain  medication  because  he  had  pain  from doing pushups and physical training in the Army.  In  2015,  Applicant  was  having  difficulties  in  his  marriage,  and  he  said  he  had unrealistic expectations about the quality of the housework his spouse was supposed to perform.  At his initial mental-health appointment in October 2015, the provider noted  that  Applicant  described  chronic  pain  and  self-medication  using  his  spouse’s Klonopin  and  Loratabs.    “He  admitted  to  occasional  alcohol  abuse,  but denied  any  history  of  blackouts,  cravings  or  withdrawals.  He  reported  chronic  anxiety [with] weekly panic attack.”  He attributed his depression to issues in his marriage.  In 2015, he said he went to counseling once or twice a month.  Applicant’s medical records reflect that he  saw a mental-health practitioner from October  2015,  to  May  2017.    His  May  2017  progress  note  states  “Today’s symptoms  include  concentration  difficulty  or  mind  going  blank,  difficulty  handling uncertainty or indecisiveness, excessive worry, feelings of loss of control, restless/keyed up, sense of dread/fear, tense.”  The  Assessments  were Major depressive disorder, recurrent, moderate; Anxiety disorder, unspecified; Insomnia, unspecified; and very depressed and increase in anxiety.  The treatment recommendation was to continue  Wellbutrin  ,  start  Zyprexa  ,  start  Trintellix  , and  stop  Zoloft  .    The  prognosis was  good  and  continued  psychotherapy was recommended as needed.  At his hearing, Applicant said his marriage improved and is much better now than it  was  in  2015.    His  children  are  doing  well  in  school  and  enjoy extracurricular activities.  Applicant ended his opioid abuse after he received shoulder surgery in  2019.  His shoulder surgery ended his chronic pain and his need  for opioids.  In July 2019, Dr. L, a psychologist, evaluated Applicant at the request of the DCSA CAF.    Dr.  L  diagnosed  him  with  Unspecified  Anxiety  Disorder, 3 Unspecified Depressive Disorder, and Alcohol Use Disorder, moderate.  Dr. L said: [Applicant]  either lacked  insight  into  his  problematic alcohol  use  and  drug misuse, or was intentionally attempting to downplay his history. He has not received   proper  interventions  for  his  mental   health   conditions,  and   has opted   to   discontinue   treatment  on   his  own.   Given   his  minimization   of   his history, lack of sufficient treatment,  minimal  social support, and  continued relationship  with  the  individual that he  identifies as  the  culprit for his past inappropriate  behaviors, his prognosis is  guarded.  [Applicant’s]  judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness are likely to be impaired.  Applicant said his diagnosis and prognosis may have resulted from anxiety due to his arrest for driving under the influence of alcohol  and concern about losing his security clearance.  At the time of his evaluation in 2019, he was taking CBD oil.   He  asked  his  supervisor  about  using  CBD  oil,  and  based  on  his  supervisor’s response,  he  stopped  using  it.    His  use  of  CBD  oil  does  not  raise  a  security concern. Dr. L said Applicant “seemed to minimize his problematic history.”  He had physical signs of depression, hostility, and bitterness.  At his hearing, Applicant suggested he was probably feeling some agitation and hostility because of the length of time the process was taking, and he believed he was doing a good job at work.  Dr.  L  said  Applicant  had  “a  history  of  antisocial  behavior,”    and  Applicant believed Dr. L was referring to his lack of attendance at social activities and his orientation towards  his family.    Applicant disagreed  with  Dr.  L’s  statement that his friends and family were “unsupportive.”  His mother-in-law and father-in-law have been particularly supportive of him.   Dr. L said she was concerned about Applicant’s “continued relationship with the individual that he identifies as the culprit for his past inappropriate  behaviors.”  Applicant believed Dr. L was referring to his spouse.  Applicant took Zoloft until November 2016.  He is not currently taking any medication for his anxiety and depression.  He has not had any mental-health counseling or treatment since November 2016.  Alcohol Consumption SOR ¶ 2.a alleges Applicant consumed alcohol, at times to excess and the point of intoxication, from about 2016 to at least July 2019.  Applicant said his period of heaviest alcohol consumption was when he was having marital issues from 2014 through 2016.  SOR ¶ 2.b alleges Applicant was arrested in March 2016, and charged with DUI.  He drank two bottles of wine and six beers; he consumed his wife’s prescribed Klonopin, and he had a blackout or loss of memory.  He locked himself in his children’s bedroom, and his spouse called the police.  4 He went outside and sat in his vehicle, and the police arrested him for DUI.  His  blood  alcohol  content    was  .14.    He  did  not  receive  any  adverse  or disciplinary  action  from  the  Army.    His  supervisor  said  no  adverse  action  was necessary because he was not on duty.  When Applicant went to court, he pleaded guilty and received pretrial diversion.  He attended the required driving classes, paid the court-ordered fines and  fees  totaling  $1,250,  and  he  successfully  completed  two  years  of  unsupervised probation.  He  did not receive  a conviction, and his record was expunged.  SOR  ¶  2.c  alleges  Applicant  received  treatment  at  an  Army  Alcohol  and Substance  Abuse  Program    from  March  2016,  to  July  2016,  for  a  condition diagnosed, in part, as Alcohol Abuse Disorder, Mild.  He attended two classes or counseling sessions a week in ASAP during the four months of ASAP treatment.  He was advised that he should not drink alcohol in the future; however, he was unsure whether this recommendation was limited to his time in ASAP or forever.  SOR ¶ 2.d alleges Applicant continued to consume alcohol, notwithstanding his treatment for Alcohol User Disorder, Mild or Moderate, as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 2.c.   He  disagreed  with  the  diagnosis  of  Alcohol  Use  Disorder.    He  said  he rarely consumes alcohol, and when he does, it is usually to a moderate degree at social functions.  He may not consume any alcohol for four to six months.  He usually limits his alcohol consumption to two beers.  Applicant  attended   about  25   Alcoholics  Anonymous    meetings,  and   he received  a  chip.   He was unsure whether the  chip was for six  months or one  year of  sobriety.  He stopped  attending  AA  meetings in May  2017,  because  he  did not believe  he  was an  alcoholic.  He found  the  AA  meetings and  the  stories of others with  drinking  problems to  be  depressing.  He does not crave  alcohol.  His  support group  consists of his family,  coworkers, and  pastor.  If  he  has difficulties,  he can talk to his support group  and seek their assistance.  Character Evidence A program manager who has worked closely with Applicant for almost four years intelligent,  professional,  diligent,  responsible,  and described  him  as conscientious.    He  is  dedicated  to  his  family.    At  social  events, Applicant consumes alcohol at a responsible level.  friendly, A  deputy  director  of  a  business  unit,  program  manager,  and  senior  network engineer where Applicant is employed has known Applicant since Applicant was 17 years old.   When  the  deputy  director  was  in  the  Army,  he  assisted  in  Applicant’s transfer from the ARNG to the Army Reserve.  The deputy director worked for the DOD contractor after retiring from the Army, and he recruited Applicant to work for him.   Applicant  works  in  his  section  and  has  been  promoted  to  team  lead.   5 Applicant is competent, productive, and trustworthy.  He considers Applicant’s current level of alcohol consumption to be responsible.  Applicant received outstanding performance evaluations from the DOD contractor for 2020 and 2021.  He has excellent performance evaluations as an Army noncommissioned  officer,  except  some  of  the  performance  reports  note  that  he  was unable  to  pass  the  Army  physical  fitness  test.    His  character  evidence supports his continued access to classified information. 