Applicant is a 26-year-old mechanical technician with a defense contractor. She is single and has one child. She is a high school graduate. She is seeking to obtain national security eligibility in connection with her work with DoD.  Paragraph 1   The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  she  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  allegations  1.b,  1.c,  and  1.d without reservations. She admitted in part and denied in part allegations 1.a, 1.e, and 1.f, with explanations. 1.a. Applicant admitted using marijuana  from  about November 2012  to December 2020. She  used  marijuana  about  once  or  twice  a  month  during  that  period.   The allegation alleged that Applicant stopped using marijuana in May 2021. This date was based on a handwritten answer concerning her last date of use Applicant made in  DOHA  interrogatories  signed  by  her  on  October  13,  2021.    Applicant denied that part of the allegation in her Answer, stating, “I realized that is a date error on my  part.  My  last  use  was  Dec  20.”  When  responding  to  allegations  1.e  and  1.f  in  her Answer, which also refer to May 2021 as her last date of use, Applicant described her entry as, “a typo error.” Department Counsel argued in the FORM that this statement of Applicant concerning the wrong date lacked credibility. 1.b.  Applicant  admitted  that she  used  hallucinogenic mushrooms  on  one  occasion in 2018.   1.c.  Applicant  admitted  using  cocaine  on  one  occasion  in  2017  in  her Answer. In her e-QIP,  during  a  subject  interview  with  an  authorized  investigator for the  DoD,  and  in 2 her interrogatory answers, she admits to using cocaine two times in 2017. I find that she used cocaine twice in 2017.  1.d.   Applicant   admitted   using   methamphetamine   one   time   in  2017.    1.e.  Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana  in  December 2020  after beginning  to  work for  her  current  employer  in  a   sensitive   position   in  November  2020.  She   stated   in  her Answer, “I deny I used  in May 2021  as that was a typo  error.” 1.f.   Applicant   admitted   using   marijuana   after   filling   out  her  e-QIP   in   December 2020. She  stated  in her Answer, “I deny  I used  marijuana  in  May  of 2021  as this was a typo error.” With  regard  to  any  future  use  of  drugs  Applicant  stated  in  her  interrogatory response, “It is my intent to live a long healthy life, with no use of harmful substances. I have  occasionally  used  marijuana  as  a  means  of  leisure,  but  I  would  never  allow any substance to interfere with my career development and employment.”  Paragraph 2   The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because the conduct alleged in subparagraphs 1.a, 1.e, and 1.f  shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness or unreliability. Her conduct will be evaluated under this guideline as well. She did not admit or deny the single allegation under this paragraph, which I view as a denial. 