Applicant, age 72, is married with four adult children. He received his high school diploma in 1968 and an associate degree in 1984. He has been employed as an electronic technician by a defense contractor since 2007. This is his first application for a security clearance.  In  April 1989, Applicant  was  charged  with  engaging in  34 felony counts of  lewd acts upon a child. In August 1989, those charges were amended to 18 counts and then to 16 counts. In August 1989, Applicant, represented by counsel, pled guilty to 1 felony count  for which he was convicted. The other 15 counts were dismissed. The following is the count to which he pled guilty: COUNT – 15 LEWD ACT UPON A CHILD On  and  between  August  1,  1988  and  August  30,  1988  [Applicant]  did willfully, unlawfully, and lewdly commit a lewd and lascivious act upon and with  the  body  and  certain  parts  and  members  thereof  of  [Child],  a  child under the age of fourteen years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, and gratifying the lust, passions, and sexual desires of the said defendant and the said child , in violation of [state law]. In   support  of   his  guilty   plea,  Applicant  endorsed   the   following   handwritten   statement acknowledging  his crime: “On  or about 8/1/88  through  8/30/88, I touched  the  breasts of  a child  under the  age  of  fourteen  years with  the  intent of  gratifying  my  sexual desires.”   In November 1989, Applicant was sentenced to six years in prison and ordered to pay a $100 fine. The maximum penalty was eight years in prison and a $10,000 fine. For reasons  not  indicated  in  the  record,  Applicant  was  released  from  prison  in  about November 1992, at which time he was registered as a sexual offender with no expiration 2 date. In his Answer, Applicant admitted that he has been a registered sex offender since November 1992.  On  his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  that  he  pled  guilty,  in  about  August  1989,  to  a felony child sex offense involving a girl under the age of 14; and that he was incarcerated from  about  August  1989  through  September 1992.  In  connection  with  the  background investigation prompted by his SCA, he was interviewed three times: twice in November 2018 and once in August 2019. He  discussed matters relevant to the SOR allegations during the first interview in November 2018  and the August 2019 interview , including his version of the facts and circumstances underlying his arrest and conviction.  Initially during Interview 1, Applicant explained that the child sex offense for which he was arrested involved him showering with the daughter of his wife’s friend, who was then only 13 years old . He claimed that he did not do anything else with the minor child. When asked to provide further information about the incident, he refused to do so on the basis that all he did was shower and could not remember all of the details since it occurred so long ago.  Subsequently  during  Interview  1, Applicant provided  some  additional details. He maintained  that his wife’s friend  saw  him  showering  with  the  minor child  and  called  the police, which resulted  in  his arrest.  He  explained  that  his wife’s friend  and  the  minor child were living  with  him  at  the  time. He  believed  that  he  was rightfully  arrested  and  should not have  been  showering  with  someone  that young. He  asserted  that  he  was not thinking at the  time  and  afterwards realized  it was a  mistake. He did  not know  why  he  thought it was okay to  do  it at the  time. He  stated  that,  after pleading  guilty   to  the   one  child  sex offense, he  was sentenced  to  three  years in prison, which he  served  from  August  1989 to  September  1992.  He  confirmed that he  was registered as a  sex  offender, as required. He asserted  that it  was a  one-time  offense  and  that  he  had  not had  any  other  negative interactions with  law  enforcement or engaged  in  any  other  criminal  activity.   During Interview 3,  Applicant  claimed that  his  wife   asked him to allow her friend to live with him so that her friend could escape an abusive husband. He stated that he took his wife’s friend and her two children  in like family.  Court  records  reflect  that  the  results  of  the  prosecution’s  investigation  largely contradicted the Applicant’s version of events. The prosecution’s investigation found that Applicant engaged in substantially more unlawful sexual activity with the minor child than the one for which he was convicted, and that those acts occurred over an extended period of  time.  Among  the  court  records  was  a  pleading  containing  a  statement  of  facts, endorsed by Applicant’s counsel, that acknowledged that Applicant was the boyfriend of the  minor  child’s  mother,  and  that  the  minor  child  and  her  mother  referred  to  him  as “father.”  3 Another court record revealed that Applicant’s wife and four children  arrived in the United States in about July 1989. At that time, Applicant’s bail conditions were temporarily modified to prohibit him from residing in the same home as his wife and children, and to require that any visitation with his children be supervised by a court-approved agency. During Interview 1, Applicant confirmed that he did not get to see his children for a long period of time. The record did not otherwise indicate the specific duration for which his residence and visitation with his children were restricted. The record also did not indicate whether any restrictions or obligations followed his  release  from  prison,  including  any  period  of  probation  .  In  Applicant’s  Answer,  he  admitted  the  facts  alleged  under  Guidelines  H  and  J involving his arrest and conviction. In response to the Guideline E allegation  involving falsification of facts during Interview 1, he wrote “I admit.” However, I construed his  response  as  a  denial  because,  in  the  explanation  accompanying  his  response,  he denied any deliberate intent due, in part, to English being his second language. He also claimed that he did his best to answer all questions during his background investigation interviews, while also stating that he “did not give them the detail of that [sic].” 