After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I make the following findings of fact: Applicant  is  34  years  old,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He  is  a  college. graduate. According  to  Applicant’s  February 18,  2019  SCA,  since November 2017,  he has been employed continuously by a defense contractor.  According to his April 25,  2019  Personal  Subject  Interview  ,  however,  Applicant  had  two  surgeries  in March 2018. He was in recovery for several months and had difficulty returning to work. As a result, Applicant left his employment in June 2018.   Notwithstanding this discrepancy, as of September 26, 2022, he was sponsored by the most recent employer identified in his SCA. The SOR alleged nine delinquent debts, three student loans totaling $42,079 and six  medical  debts  totaling  $3,798.    All  three  student  loans  were  reported delinquent in February 2019.  Student Loans SOR ¶ 1.a. is a federal student loan for $23,328. Applicant admitted this allegation but said: “[It] is in good standing and up to date in payments.” He provided no documents in  support of his answer.   The  record  shows  this loan to be  in  collection and “PERMANENTLY  ASSIGNED  TO  GOVERNMENT.”    In  subsequent  credit reports, there are no federal student loans with an account number or a balance due that match this account. All federal student loans that are reported show zero amounts due.  SOR ¶ 1.b. is a federal student loan for $10,288. Applicant denied this debt and said: “I believe this was part of the [private lender] account that I paid off.” He provided no documents in support of his answer.  The record shows this loan to be in collection  and  “PERMANENTLY  ASSIGNED  TO  GOVERNMENT.”    The  next credit report shows the loan charged off for $8,463.  The last credit report shows this loan charged off for $8,463.  SOR ¶ 1.c. is a private student loan for $8,463. Applicant admitted this allegation and  said:  “[Was]  paid  off  with  a  settlement  with  a  balance  of  $0.00.”  He  provided  no 2 documents in support of his answer.   The record shows that this private loan was made by the same private lender noted in Applicant’s answer to SOR ¶ 1.b. In the March  2019  credit  report,  the  balance  was  $10,158,  and  the  loan  was  charged  off  for $8,463 in October 2016.   The next credit report  shows this loan charged off for $8,463.  The last credit report  shows the loan was charged off for $8,463.  There appears to be some relationship between SOR ¶ 1.b. and SOR ¶ 1.c.  On this record, however, it is not clear what that relationship is. Medical  Debts The SOR alleges six delinquent medical debts, SOR ¶¶ 1.d. through 1.i. totaling $3,798.  Applicant  admitted  these  debts,  with  varying  comments  such  as:  “[Is]  in  good standing  with  paying  this  off”;  “[Has]  been  paid  and  closed  out”;  “[In]  good  standing  in making  payments  and  is  paying  off.”    Applicant  provided  no  documents  in support  of  his  answers.  The  March  2019  credit  report  shows  all  of  these  debts  in collection.    The  January  2020  and  April  2022  credit  reports  do  not  report  on these debts. In her FORM Brief, Department Counsel notes two delinquent debts that are not alleged in the SOR, one an auto loan for $69 and one  a medical judgment for $1,115.  Only the medical judgment is material here. Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  he  did  not  address  those  unalleged allegations. They are, therefore, deemed to have been denied. The record supports the medical judgment.  Law and Policies It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard that  security determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 . indicates When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶ 2  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or 3 mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant  or proven  by  Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision. Guideline F, Financial Considerations The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out in AG ¶ 18: lack  of indicate   poor  self-control, Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial obligations  may judgment,   or unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other issues of personnel security  concern such  as  excessive  gambling, mental health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An individual  who   is  financially   overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to engage in illegal or otherwise questionable  acts to generate  funds. This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 . Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security concerns  under AG ¶  19. The following condition is applicable in this case:   inability to satisfy debts; and   a history of not meeting financial obligations. The  SOR debts are established  by  Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s credit reports. AG ¶¶  19  and 19 apply. Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising from financial difficulties. The following mitigating condition under AG ¶ 20 is potentially applicable:    the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely  to  recur  and  does not  cast doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,   or  good judgment. 4 Applicant’s three  student loans were reported  delinquent  in  February  2019. That  is not  that long  ago.  Nor were the  delinquencies  infrequent,  as  proven  by  the  record’s three credit reports. As the  record stands, Applicant’s  first student loan  is in  collection, and his second  and  third  loans  have  been  charged  off. Although  he  claims  that those  debts have been  resolved, Applicant has not provided  any  documents supporting  that assertion.  The Appeals Board   has  routinely   held   that   it  is   reasonable   to  expect  applicants   to   produce documentation   supporting   their   efforts to   resolve   debts.   See,  e.g.,  ISCR   Case   No.   20- 00615  at 2  . Applicant has not satisfied  that  requirement.  AG ¶  20  does not  mitigate  his student  loans.  No other mitigating  conditions appear to  be  applicable  on this record. Applicant’s  medical  debts  for  $4,913   stand on a different footing.  I have given little weight to the seven delinquent medical accounts that remain unresolved. Medical debt is unlike other types of debt. First, it is presumed that medical debt is incurred for necessary medical care and treatment, as opposed  to  frivolous  irresponsible  spending,  or  otherwise  living  beyond  one’s  means. Second,  medical  debt  is  usually  unplanned,  unexpected,  and  nondiscretionary.  Third,  it can  add  hundreds  if  not  thousands  of  dollars  in  debt  in  a  short  period,  which  can  be overwhelming for a debtor. Finally, the record shows that Applicant lost time from work due to two surgeries in March 2018. In my view, having less than $5,000 in unresolved medical accounts does not fatally undermine Applicant’s suitability. Accordingly, the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.d. through 1.i. are decided for Applicant. The Whole-Person Concept Under  AG  ¶  2,  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept.  AG ¶¶ 2 and - .  The unalleged medical judgment was considered in my whole-person analysis. See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 . In my analysis, I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the  facts  and  circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has  not provided sufficient evidence to mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations. Formal Findings Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Paragraph  1, Guideline F: AGAINST APPLICANT 5 Subparagraphs 1.a. –  c.: Against Applicant Subparagraphs 1.d. –  i.: For Applicant In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. _____________________________ Philip J. Katauskas Administrative Judge 6 