Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d - 1.f, and 1.i – 1.m. She denied SOR ¶¶ 1.c,  1.g,  1.h,  and  1.n.  For  each  allegation,  she  provided  a  brief  explanation.  Her admissions and explanations are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  the  record  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant is 53 years old. She grew up in a family of 10 children. She graduated from high school in 1986 and worked her way through college. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 1999, an associate’s degree in 2014, and a master’s degree in 2017. She was married from 1993-2006 and again from 2008-2010. Both marriages ended in divorce. She has three sons, ages 28, 21, and 8. Her youngest son lives with her.  Applicant served in the U.S. Army from 1992 to May 2015. She spent her first 10 years as an enlisted soldier, and was commissioned as an officer in 2002. She  retired as  a  Major  .  While  serving  in  Iraq,  Applicant  was  badly  wounded  and  she  was evacuated to Germany for treatment. Her combat-related injuries led to her placement on temporary disability in May 2013, and ultimately to her full retirement from the Army two  years  later  as  an  80%  disabled  veteran.  She  received  two  Meritorious  Service Medals,  six  Army  Commendation  Medals,  three  Army  Achievement  Medals,  and numerous  other  service  awards,  medals,  and  commendations  for  her  service  to  the country in uniform.  After retiring from the Army, Applicant worked for a defense contractor in another state  from  July  2017  to  June  2019,  earning  a  $105,000  annual  salary.  She  then changed  jobs  in  the  same  company,  with  a  salary  of  $118,000  annually.  Applicant worked  for  a  different  large  defense  contractor  from  September  2019  until  July  2021. She  has  worked  for  her  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor  in  the  defense 2 industry, in a similar job, since then. She has an annual salary of $125,000. As an 80% disabled  veteran,  she  receives  $3,600  per  month  in  retirement  and  disability  pay combined. She has held a clearance since 1992, largely without interruption.  The  14  SOR  allegations  concern  two  prior  Chapter  7  bankruptcies   and 12 delinquencies, totaling about $20,000. The debts are established by credit reports from February 2017, November 2019, and May 2022.  Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection in 2000 with her first husband. He  was  also  on  active  duty,  stationed  overseas.  They  had  money  problems  and  the bankruptcy resulted.   Applicant  filed for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  again  in  2014.  Both  bankruptcies  were discharged.   Applicant’s  2014  bankruptcy  resulted  after  her  pay  was  reduced  while  she  was on temporary disability. This led to a decline in income, and she fell behind on her bills.   She  also  did  not  receive  child  support  from  her  first  husband,  the father of her two older children, after 2014.  In  addition,  Applicant’s  income  declined  after  she  was  determined  to  be permanently disabled and then medically retired from the Army. She also had many bills and two houses, in two different states where she had served in the Army, and once the rental  homes  lost  their  renters,  she  could  not  afford  the  mortgages.    She testified  that  she  returned  the  rental  homes  to  the  bank  through  deeds  in  lieu  of foreclosure in about 2014.  On  her  2019  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  her 2014  bankruptcy  and  her  two  home foreclosures, and noted that her financial issues were due to post-Army unemployment and the loss of rental income.  Applicant admitted  some  SOR debts  and  denied  others, but largely  claimed  that many  of the  SOR debts were listed  in  the  2014  bankruptcy  and  that the  debts were  not hers. Applicant believes that the  creditors for  debts in  her  second  bankruptcy  then  sold the   accounts  to   other  creditors,  who   are  the   creditors  listed   in  the   SOR.  She   did   not believe   that  she   applied   for  new   credit   cards  or  credit  accounts  after  the   second bankruptcy   –   accounts   which  later  became   delinquent.   She   asserted   that  some   of  the delinquent  accounts  noted  in  the  SOR  and  on  her credit reports  might belong  to  a  twin brother,   who   has   a   similar  social  security   number   and   that   one   of  her  siblings  might have   taken   out  an   account   fraudulently,  but  she   provided   no   documents   to   support these  claims.  She  asserted  that none  of  the  accounts alleged  in the  SOR   are  her  accounts.  She   has   made   no   payments  towards  any   of   those   debts, because she believes they are not hers.  Referring to  her debts in  general,  Applicant said,  “in  my  heart of  hearts,  I  know and  believe  that’s  not  my  debt.  If  I  thought  that  was  my  debt,  I  would  have  paid  that debt, but that’s not my debt. I really do believe  that.”  She acknowledged 3 that  she  has  made  mistakes  but  she  is  proud  of  her  accomplishments,  and  of  her service to the country.  The debts alleged in the SOR all post-date Applicant’s second bankruptcy, as the subsequent credit reports list dates of origin that came after the discharge for all of the accounts. None of the SOR debts are listed on her February 2017 credit report.  All of  the SOR  debts are  listed on her November 2019  credit  report,  and most remain listed as delinquent as of May 2022.  SOR ¶ 1.c  is a debt placed for collection. Applicant did not recognize the debt and said she contacted the creditor.  SOR  ¶  1.d    is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  bank.  Applicant asserted  that  this  account  was  resolved  in  the  2014  bankruptcy  but  was  then  sold  to another creditor.  SOR ¶ 1.e   is an account that was charged off. Applicant believes it was listed in the second bankruptcy petition. She said she has a valid account with the same bank now. She believes the SOR account is fraudulent.  SOR  ¶  1.f    is  a  bank  debt  placed  for  collection.  Applicant  believes  it  is part of her bankruptcy and has done nothing else to resolve it. She said it was not her debt.  SOR ¶ 1.g  is a past-due medical debt with an unidentified creditor.  Applicant denies the debt. She has TRICARE as an Army retiree for herself and her two younger sons. She also has VA medical benefits.  SOR  ¶  1.h    is  a  debt  that  has  been  placed  for  collection.  Applicant denies the debt, and claims it was part of her bankruptcy. She said it was not her debt.  SOR  ¶  1.i    is  a  debt  that  has  been  placed  for  collection.  Applicant admitted  the  debt  in  her  answer  and  claimed  it  was  part  of  her  bankruptcy.  She  then asserted it was not her debt, and she believed it had been sold to another creditor.  SOR ¶ 1.j  is a debt placed for collection by a bank. Applicant admitted the debt in her answer and claimed it was part of her bankruptcy. She then asserted it was not her debt, and she believed it was part of her bankruptcy and had been sold to another creditor. SOR ¶ 1.k  is a debt placed for collection by a bank. She asserted that the  debt  was  resolved  in  bankruptcy  and  was  sold  to  another creditor.  She  believes  it may the same debt as SOR ¶ 1.d  4 SOR ¶ 1.l   is a  debt  placed  for  collection  by  the  same  creditor as  SOR  ¶ 1.k.   Applicant  asserted   that  the   debt   was  resolved   in  bankruptcy   and   was  sold   to another creditor.  SOR ¶ 1.m  is a debt placed for collection by a bank. Applicant says this is not her debt and believes it was sold to another creditor.  SOR  ¶   1.n      is  a   debt  placed   for  collection   by   a   phone   company. Applicant denies this debt  and  says she  has never had  service with  this  carrier.  Applicant said she “makes better choices now” and is more financially stable due to her income and her job.  She  pays for her son’s college, about $1,800  a month  room  and  board,  and  $1,200  every  two  months  for  his  tuition.    She formerly leased a $46,000 luxury auto, but has since sold it back to the dealer. She now leases  another  vehicle  for  $699  a  month,  with  a  purchase  price  of  about  $40,000   Applicant participated in credit counseling in Chapter 7 and with a prior employer. She  has  a  budget  that  she  tries  to  follow.  She  has  about  $28,000  in  her  checking accounts, and about $10,000 in her savings account. She says she is able to pay all of her bills through her retirement pay and VA benefits.  