In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.k, 2.a, 2.b and 2.c.  He also provided clarifying and mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a  59-year-old Principle  Specialist in Program  Management for a  direct support DOD  contractor who  has supported  the Army at an  arsenal  for 15 years.  His  current annual salary   is $120,000.    He   has   worked   as   an engineer  for  26   years.     In   1998,  he   was  divorced,  and   he   has  a   15-year-old daughter who  resides with  her mother.  He has a master’s degree  in engineering and  a  master’s degree   in business administration.    In  2004,   Applicant served  a 12-month  tour in  Afghanistan.   In  2003, when  he  was an  Army  major, he  received a  letter of  reprimand  for a  driving  under the  influence  of  alcohol  which caused  him to  believe  the  Army  would not promote  him.  He is a  major in the  Army  Retired Reserve.  He received  his 20-year Army  Reserve  retirement  eligibility  letter in 2005.   He served  in the  military  for 23  years, and  he  honorably  retired  in 2009.   His  resume   provides  additional  information   about  his  professional experiences and  training.  He  has held  a  security  clearance  since  1983.  There  is no evidence of security violations.  Applicant  received the  following  Army  awards:  Army Commendation Medal; Army Reserve Components Achievement Medal ; Global War on  Terrorism  Service Medal; Army  Service Ribbon;  National Defense  Service Medal  ; Afghanistan Campaign  Medal; and  Armed  Forces Reserve  Medal  w/1  “M” Device and  10  Year Device .  Applicant’s  2019  and  2020  performance  evaluations  for  his  work  as  a  DOD contractor  indicate  he  “Surpasses  Expectations.”    In  2021,  his  Deputy  Product Manager wrote: 2 [Applicant]   has  proven   himself  to   be   a   highly   effective   contributor  to   the organization’s mission.  His work has been  found  to  be  at all  times thorough, timely, and executed with an exceptional degree of precision and quality. Through  his professional conduct –  he  has  established  an  exceptional level of   credibility   within  the   organization   and   has  earned   the   respect  of   all members of the  [contractor’s] team. In  some  instances  –  [his]  solutions have been  held  up  as role  models of task accomplishment and  his solutions were documented   and   adopted   as  the   organization’s  preferred   approach   to accomplishing   similar   assignments.   He   continues   to   be   a   highly   valued member of the  [contractor’s] team. . . .  Other  coworkers  and  retired  field  grade  officers  lauded  his  diligence,  trustworthiness, professionalism, and dedication to work and to his daughter.  Alcohol Consumption  and Criminal Conduct The record contains evidence that from December 1999 to November 2016, the police  arrested  Applicant  for  seven  DUIs,  two  alcohol-related  non-driving  criminal offenses,  and  an  alcohol-related  probation  violation.  There  is  also  evidence  of  his attendance  at  alcohol-related  classes,  counseling,  therapy,  and  a  12-step  treatment program. SOR ¶ 1.a alleges in about December 1999, Applicant was arrested for DUI. He pleaded guilty to DUI, and the court ordered him to pay a fine and court costs.  Applicant’s October 5, 2018 SCA indicates the police arrested him for DUI in about August 2000.  He pleaded guilty to DUI, and the court ordered him to pay a fine and court costs.  This DUI was not alleged in the SOR and will not be considered for disqualification purposes. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges in about August 2003, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI and fleeing or evading the police. He pleaded guilty to DUI, and the court ordered him to pay a fine and court costs.  The court placed him on probation for 12 months.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in about November 2003, Applicant was arrested and charged with  DUI.  He  pleaded  guilty,  and  the  court  imposed  a  fine  and  ordered  probation  and alcohol counseling. He paid all fines and costs and satisfied the terms of his probation.  SOR ¶  1.d  alleges in about November 2003, Applicant was diagnosed  on  Axis I with  Alcohol Abuse. He  was enrolled  in the  Army  Substance  Abuse  Program  .  He  attended  ASAP  until he  deployed to Afghanistan in May 2004.  He did not continue  with  alcohol counseling  after he  returned  from  Afghanistan  in  May  2005.  He did not consume any alcohol from November 2003  until 2011.  3 SOR ¶ 1.e alleges in about September 2011, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI. He pleaded guilty to the lesser offense of failing to use due care when passing a  stationary  emergency  vehicle.   personal subject interview  at 3, GE 3) The court sentenced him to pay a fine and costs, to 12 months of probation, and to attend an Alcohol Highway Safety Program.  SOR ¶  1.f  alleges in about August  2012, Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with DUI.  He drank eight to  ten  beers while  boating.  He drove  away  from  the  boating  area, and  he  struck a  pole with  his vehicle.   This was the  only  occasion  where his  DUI involved  his vehicle  being damaged  in  an  accident.   He did not remember his  breathalyzer test result.  He pleaded  guilty  to  a  lesser offense  of  operating  a  vehicle  while  visibly  impaired  , and  the court sentenced him to  pay a  fine  and costs.  SOR ¶ 1.g alleges in about November 2013, Applicant was arrested and charged with  Breaking  and  Entering,  Illegal  Entry,  and  Larceny.  Alcohol  was  a  factor  in  this incident.  He went to his girlfriend’s house, and a window was open.  He entered her house when she was not home, and he took some gifts he made to her because he was upset that she was “cheating on him.”  He pleaded guilty to  Breaking  and  Entering  .  The court dismissed the larceny charge.  The court sentenced him to 24 months of probation, participation in a substance abuse program, 10 days of community service, a mental-health evaluation, and random alcohol testing.  SOR ¶ 1.h alleges about in February 2015, Applicant violated probation, and his probation violation was detected through substance abuse testing.  He served two days in jail for the probation violation.  SOR ¶ 1.i alleges in about November 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with Criminal Trespass. He and his girlfriend had an argument, and the hotel where they were staying told him to leave.  He refused to leave; the hotel called the police; and the police arrested him.  Alcohol was a factor in this incident. He pleaded guilty to criminal trespass.  The court  sentenced  him  to  pay  a  fine  and  to  90  days  of  probation.    The  charge  was dismissed after he completed probation.  SOR ¶ 1.j alleges in about November 2016, Applicant was arrested and charged with  DUI.  Applicant’s  only  listed  blood  alcohol  content    result  of  .17  was  from  a blood test for this DUI.  His highest blood-alcohol content in relation to his DUIs that he could remember was .17.  He pleaded guilty to misdemeanor OWI II.  The court sentenced him to pay a fine, to 24 months of  probation,  to  participation  in  a  substance  abuse  program,  and  to  random  alcohol testing.  SOR ¶ 1.k alleges in about October 2018, Applicant discontinued alcohol treatment against  advice.  Applicant  attended  a  behavioral  health  outpatient  alcohol  treatment 4 program  for nine months.  The SOR does not allege; however, that the February 13, 2018 intake assessment form for the BHOATP says, “Client reports long Hx  of  alcohol  dependence.  Reports  recent  alcohol  bender  over  the  weekend,  LDU 2/11/18.”  The BHOATP intake form indicates he “lacks insight into problem” and has low impulse control.  The BHOATP discharged him with a diagnosis of Axis I  Alcohol  Dependence.    He  made  “fair  progress”  while  in  the  BHOATP.    The clinical  recommendation  was  for  him  “to  consistently  attend  Outpatient  Treatment  for relapse prevention purposes and to continue to build a sober support system.”  Applicant believed he had received all of the value that he was going to receive from BHOATP.  He concluded his 12-step program was better than BHOATP at meeting his needs.  He said he attended the 12-step program twice a week from 2018 to present.  SOR  ¶  2.a  cross-alleges  the  information  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and 1.c  under  the criminal conduct guideline, and SOR ¶ 2.c cross alleges the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.e through 1.j under the criminal conduct guideline. SOR ¶ 2.b alleges in about November 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with Domestic Violence. Alcohol was not involved in the incident.  Applicant and his spouse had a verbal argument.  She wanted to call the police, and he would not let her use the phone.  He did not touch her or injure her.    He  pleaded  guilty,  and  the  court  ordered  him  to  attend  anger  management classes.  After completion of all sentencing requirements, the record was sealed and expunged.  To summarize, from 1999 to November 2003, Applicant was arrested for four DUIs. He consumed excessive amounts of alcohol for several years during this period because of the stress and shock related to the end of his nine-year marriage in 1998.  He did not have any problems with alcohol for eight years . He was always alone in his vehicle when the police stopped him for DUIs.  Applicant  relapsed   in   2011   when   his  father  passed   away   and   due   to   a   toxic romantic relationship.   From  2011  to  2016, he  had  five  alcohol-related  arrests and   an   alcohol-related   probation   violation.    After  his  most  recent  DUI   arrest  in 2016, he  attended  several outpatient alcohol counseling  and  treatment programs.   He   ended   the   toxic  relationship,   and   he   does  not   associate   with   the   people  who consumed  alcohol with  him  during  the  2011  to  2016  time  period.  The  police  have not  arrested   him   since   2016.    He  attends  faith-based   meetings  in  a   12-step program,   which  is  similar  to   the   12-step   program   in  the   Alcoholics  Anonymous   program.  He accepted  that he is an alcoholic.  He does not intend to   consume   alcohol  in   the   future.    He   denied   that  he   was  impaired   at  work  by alcohol consumption.  Applicant does not believe future incidents involving the police and courts will occur because he admitted his problem with alcohol, and he took action to address it.  In 2003, and June 2007, he completed the ASAP training courses.  In April 2018, he  successfully  completed  an  intensive  outpatient  treatment  program.    He 5 denied any alcohol consumption after November of 2016.  He has a healthier lifestyle.  He watches what he eats and exercises.  He promised not to operate a motor vehicle after consuming alcohol.  If he chooses to consume alcohol in the future, he promised to consume alcohol in a responsible manner.  He ended a stressful toxic romantic relationship, and he does not associate with others who abuse alcohol.  He has continued his sobriety, associates with others who share his goal of sobriety, and he frequently attends his 12-step program.  He did not provide a statement from his sponsor or other attendees of his 12-step program about his commitment to sobriety and his efforts to maintain his sobriety. 