In  Applicant’s SOR  response,  she admitted the  SOR allegation  in ¶  2.c.   She  denied  the  SOR  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.f,  2.a,  and  2.b.  She  also provided mitigating information. Her admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant is a 48-year-old employee of a DOD contractor.  She continuously worked for the DOD contractor, a large corporation, for 22 ½ years.  She worked for the DOD contractor as a laboratory technician, crane operator, uniform security officer, and industrial security officer.  She was an industrial security officer for 13 years from 2006 to 2019.  She held a security clearance for all of her employment with the DOD contractor, except for the last three years.  Applicant did not submit any performance  evaluations  or  character  letters  attesting  to  her  honesty,  trustworthiness, reliability, or attention to detail. In  1992,  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school.    In  1997,  she  earned  a bachelor’s  degree  in  park  and  land  management  and  criminal  justice.    She honorably served in the Army from 1997 to 1998, and she received an early discharge due to pregnancy.  After her discharge, she had a miscarriage.   She was married the first time from 1997 to 1998, and the second time from 2007 to present.  She does not have any children.  Handling Protected Information  and Personal Conduct SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  in  about  July  2019,  Applicant  failed  to  have  a  security professional  inspect  the  property she  was  moving  out  of  the  sensitive  compartmented information facility . 2 After the counseling in March 2019 for failing to double wrap classified or sensitive materials, Applicant asked to be transferred out of industrial security to a laboratory and then to a range to be a crane operator.  She wanted to be transferred because there was too much work and stress in industrial security.  She retained her desk in the SCIF because the job as a crane operator was potentially temporary, and she may have needed to return to her industrial security duties.  A coworker reported Applicant’s possession of two books which security officials believed might show a foreign influence connection to Russia.   Applicant’s desk in the SCIF had a book about a Russian espionage case from the World War II era that a former security manager gave her and a 1980s book about translations from Russian to English that she received from a coworker.  Security officials said a book  about  Russian  spies  and  how  to  encrypt  writing  was  found  on  Applicant’s  desk between March 2019 and April 2019.  Concerns about the Russian connection caused security to lock Applicant out of the SCIF.  Security officials alleged that she gained unauthorized access to the SCIF; she wiped her computer when she performed a manual backup; and she removed two boxes and a five-gallon bucket containing property from the SCIF without security inspecting the boxes or bucket.  She was  asked  to  bring  the  items  back,  and  she  brought  one  box  and  explained  the  other items were food storage.  Applicant said  a  person  working  in the  SCIF told her to  clear out her desk  in the SCIF because  she  had  moved  to  a  different  location.   On  July  24, 2019, she  collected  most of her personal items, such  as papers and  books,  put the  items in boxes, and  moved  them  out of  the  SCIF.  She  placed  the  items in her car.  She  said no  one  was in the  SCIF when  she  removed  her property.  She  believed  security  personnel  discovered  she  removed  her items  from  the  SCIF because  it was on  video.  When  Applicant was asked  about removing  her property from  the  SCIF,  she  admitted  it.   Eight  days after she  removed  the  property  from the  SCIF, she  said she  returned  the  property  for security’s inspection.  They  did not  find  any  prohibited  items  in  the  property  she  returned  for inspection.   Applicant was unaware of any regulation or rule requiring security to inspect items being removed from the SCIF; however, she admitted that two people were supposed to check  furniture  being  removed  from  the  SCIF  and  the  items  being  removed  when someone  retired  or  was  terminated.    She  denied  that  she “piggy-backed” or followed another employee into the SCIF.  She said she  used  her  badge  to  gain  access  to  the  SCIF.    Two  days  after  she retrieved  her  items  from  the  SCIF,  she  went  back  to  the  SCIF  to  retrieve  more  of  her personal property, and her badge would not open the door.  She was not told at that point that she did not have access to the SCIF.  She attempted to back up her desktop computer in the SCIF, and she was unable to do it.  She  said she called the help desk for assistance.  She denied that she knew how to wipe her computer.    She  said  there  are  cameras  throughout  the  SCIF,  and  it  would  be stupid  for  her  to  do  something  inside  the  SCIF  that  was  a  security  violation.   Applicant believes two coworkers conspired against her and made up the allegations in 3 SOR ¶ 1.a.  The file does not contain any statements from the two employees or from security officials with personal knowledge about: when she was locked out of the SCIF; when she was told that her access to the SCIF was terminated;  or whether she was alone in the SCIF when her computer was wiped and the property was removed from the SCIF. SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c allege in about January and March 2019, Applicant failed to follow  procedures  for  wrapping  and  mailing  classified  or  sensitive  program  material. Applicant’s  July  18,  2019  Office  of  Personnel  Management    personal  subject interview  states in late 2018 and March 2019, she failed to double wrap packages containing classified or sensitive program material.  Classified and sensitive papers are supposed to be placed inside one envelope, and that envelope is  then  placed  inside  another  envelope.    The  party  receiving  the  improperly wrapped packages  promptly reported  the  rule  violation.  Applicant admitted  she mailed both packages, and she believes she was verbally counseled about both packages on the same date.  She frequently sent documents through the mail, and she knew how to package classified and sensitive materials.  She acknowledged she made a  mistake  in  her  packaging  of  the  materials.    She  was  overworked,  and  she suggested she was distracted and overlooked the correct packaging of the materials.  There was no compromise of classified information.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about April 2013, Applicant failed to report her handling of materials for which she did not have access. Applicant’s July 18, 2019 OPM PSI states she “opened a package [she] was not cleared for”; however, the contractor’s record did not confirm this security violation.  In her SOR response, Applicant said she opened  a  package  that  did  not  have  any  markings,  and  she  discovered  she  was  not cleared for the material inside the package. She sealed the package; she placed it into the safe; and she informed her supervisor.  The package was returned to  the  sender.    She  received  a  correction  action  memo    for  the  incident; however, she  believes it  was  unfair because she had  no  way of  knowing she  was  not cleared for the material until she opened the package.  SOR ¶ 1.e alleges in September 2019, Applicant presented two classified program refresher briefings to an employee who did not have access. For classified briefings, they read the same information to the employee, except the name of the program is different for each program.  Applicant said the incident occurred in 2013. In 2013, Applicant was counseled either verbally or with a CAM for a security violation because she briefed someone  on  the  wrong  program.    There  was  no evidence that the improper briefing occurred in September 2019. SOR ¶  1.f  alleges in about  July  2019, Applicant was debriefed  from  all  access to the  building  containing  the  SCIF  because  of  the  security  violations in SOR ¶¶  1.a  through 1.e. Applicant said she  was told that she  was debriefed  because  her work  in the  SCIF was not needed  due  to  her transfer to  work at  a  range  in another location.  In February  2020, she  learned  she  was debriefed  at least  in part because  of the  allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c.  4 SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges the information in SOR ¶ 1 under the personal conduct guideline. SOR ¶ 2.b cross alleges the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. SOR ¶ 2.c alleges that Applicant received two corrective action memos from about September 2012 to about April 2013 for the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. 