Applicant is a 44-year old man with two adult children. He has been married since 1999. He is a veteran of both the U.S. Army and the U.S. Air Force, serving initially in the Army from 1997 to 2003, and then in the Air Force from 2003 to 2020.  He retired honorably at the rank of senior master sergeant.   He has held a security clearance since 1997.  Applicant has a high school diploma and has earned approximately three years of college credits. He is currently working on a bachelor’s degree in information technology.  He has been working for his current employer, an information technology company, since January 2021.  In June 2013, Applicant was involved in a car accident. When the police opened the glove compartment to retrieve his registration, they discovered a handgun.   Subsequently,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  transporting  a  handgun  on  a roadway. After a court placed him on probation before judgment for 18 months, the charge was dismissed.  Applicant was in the military when he was charged with the handgun violation. The gun was legally registered, and he had just been transferred from a state where it was legal to have a handgun in one’s automobile. He was unfamiliar with the gun laws of his new state of residence when the arrest occurred.  In  December  2015,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while intoxicated    and  failure  to  stop/elude  the  police.    The  failure  to stop/elude the police charge was nolle prossed.  He was found guilty of the DWI  charge,  given  a  30-day suspended  jail sentence,  and  placed  on  probation for 12 months. As part of probation, his license was suspended and he had to attend an alcohol safety program. Also, the court ordered the installation of an ignition lock on Applicant’s car for six months.  In January 2016, while on probation, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI. Subsequently, he was found guilty and given  a one-year suspended jail sentence, two years supervised probation,  fined $1,500, and ordered to attend six months of alcohol 2 counseling.  Applicant completed the requirements of probation.  Per the lead counselor of the alcohol program, Applicant “was an attentive and active participant, and contributed with good thoughts in group session,” and it appeared “that he ha[d] gained knowledge on the consequences of alcohol . . . in his life.”  Applicant  stopped  drinking  alcohol  after  this  most  recent  DUI  arrest,  and  continues  to remain  sober.    He  included  his  DUI  charges  on  his  2018  security  clearance application, as required.  In April 2017, Applicant was issued a citation for violating the terms of parole by attempting to drive on a suspended license.  Applicant denies this allegation, contending that his license was not suspended; rather, it was turned in to the motor vehicle administration when he moved to another state and applied for a new license.   Applicant did not provide any documentation in support of this contention. He was found guilty. In August 2019, Applicant was charged with displaying a registered plate issued for another vehicle. He was found guilty and fined $70.  Applicant  completed   a   security   clearance   application   in  February   2018.   He answered “no” to a question requiring  applicants  to  disclose  any  debts  that  were  more  than 120  days past due, as of  the  execution  date  of  the  security  clearance  application.    When  Applicant completed  the  application, he  was more than  120  days  delinquent on mortgage  payments for a  rental property  that he  owned.  Specifically, Applicant purchased  the  property  in 2000.   After he  left the  Army  and  joined  the  Air  Force in 2003, Applicant moved, but kept the  property  to  rent out.  In  approximately  2012, the  tenant moved  out,  at or about the  time  Applicant’s wife  lost  her job.  Unable to  find  another tenant and  unable to  pay  the  mortgage  without  receiving  rent  money to  offset it, the  mortgage  became  delinquent.  Applicant knew  that  he  and  his  wife  had  been struggling  to  make  mortgage  payments,  but “didn’t know  the  exact extent of  it,” as his wife was handling  the  payments and  the  property  was located  in another state.  At the  time  of  the  foreclosure, payments  had  been  delinquent  for  approximately  six  years.   By November 2019, the mortgage loan had been foreclosed upon, and the home was sold at auction.  Applicant owed no deficiency after the sale.  Applicant is indebted on an auto loan account that was charged off in the amount of $3,837.  He incurred this debt in 2018 when he took his car to an auto shop for repairs and could not afford the repair cost.  Applicant disputed the repair cost amount to the shop owner, and “they basically ended up selling the car at an auction.”  The auto lender received the proceeds of the sale.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  collection  agent  for  a  delinquent  phone  bill,  totaling $1,182. Applicant denies the debt.  He is working to remove it from his credit 3 report  with  the  help  of  a  credit  repair  company.    He  provided  no  evidence substantiating the basis of his denial. Applicant earns $85,000 annually.  He has $2,000 in savings. Applicant’s adult children and his grandchild live in his home. He helps his children pay their college tuition.  According to his wife, he is “a strong and stable, husband, father, friend, and  provider  who  has  always  worked  hard  to  make  sure  that  [his]  family  always  had everything  that  [they]  needed  and  many  of  the  things  that  [they]  wanted.”   Moreover,  he  has  “learned  from  his  mistakes  .  .  .,”  and  has  become  “an  even  better person,” over the years.  