In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f,  1.h,  2.a,  and  2.b.    He  denied  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.g  and  3.a.  He  also provided  mitigating  information.  His  admissions  are  accepted  as  findings  of  fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  senior  field  engineer  who  concentrates  on  test engineering  and  systems  integration.    He  has  worked  for  his  current employer since November of 2018.  His resume and performance overview for 2021 provide additional details about his background and professional experiences.  B, Ex. D) In 1999, he graduated from high school, and in 2008,  he  received  a  certification  in  aviation  maintenance  which  is  equivalent  to  an 2 associate’s degree.  He said he  needs to  complete one  course to  receive  a  bachelor’s degree  in  aeronautics.  His  resume  erroneously indicates  he has  a  bachelor’s degree;  however, he may  be  able  to get a  diploma  if some administrative  details are resolved  at his  university.  He has never married, and he does not have any children.  In 2003, Applicant joined the Marine Corps.  He completed five years of active duty service in the Marine Corps in April 2008, followed by one year in the inactive Reserve, and he was in the Marine Corps Active Reserve from April 2009 to April 2012.  He served in Iraq from March to November 2004, and from May to October 2005.  His active duty Marine Corps specialty was helicopter mechanic.  His Marine Corps Reserve specialty was intelligence imagery analyst.  His Marine Corps evaluations in 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011 indicated “One of the many highly qualified professionals who form the majority of this grade.”  He was a sergeant when he was discharged, and he received an honorable discharge.  Applicant  received  the  following  Marine  Corps  awards:  Military  Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal; Marine Corps Good Conduct Medal; Sea Service Deployment Ribbon  with  1  Bronze  Star;  Global  War  on  Terrorism  Service  Medal;  Global  War  on Terrorism  Expeditionary  Medal;  National  Defense  Service  Medal;  Certificate  of Commendation; Iraq Campaign Medal with 1 Bronze Star; three Certificates of Training; and Armed Forces Reserve Medal.  In November 2020, he received a certificate of achievement from his employer.  Alcohol Consumption,  Criminal Conduct, and Personal Conduct SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant consumed alcohol, at times to the point of intoxication, from  about  1998  to  at  least  September  2020.  In  his  SOR  response,  he  admitted  this allegation. His April 7, 2021, Office of Personnel Management  personal subject interview  indicates that during the period from 2008 to 2015, he consumed alcohol on a near daily basis, and he drank to intoxication three to four times a week.  When he drank to intoxication, he consumed four or more beers or a bottle and a half of wine.  In his SOR response, Applicant said he reduced his alcohol consumption in 2016. At his hearing, he said he did not consume alcohol during the week.  He generally limited  his  alcohol  consumption  to  a  drink  or  two  with  dinner.    He  has  not excessively  consumed  alcohol  since  December  15,  2021.    He consumed alcohol excessively as a coping mechanism.  SOR ¶ 1.b  alleges in about  March 2003, Applicant was arrested and charged  with driving  while  alcohol impaired   and  careless driving.  He admitted  this allegation.   He   said  his  blood   alcohol  content     was  close   to   .08;  however,  he   did  not remember the  specific BAC.  He pleaded  guilty  to  a  lesser charge than  the  DWI, and  the  careless driving  charge  was dismissed.  The  offense  in  the docket  is “unclassified  misdemeanor,” and  it  may  not be  an  alcohol-related  offense.   He was sentenced to 12 months of probation, 24 hours of community service, and a fine.  He was under the age of 21 at the time of this offense. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges in about September 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol . Applicant was sitting in his vehicle when he was arrested for DUI.  His girlfriend called the police and accused him of stalking her.  Prior to his arrest, he was drinking excessively in the aftermath of the break up with his girlfriend.  The BAC related to this arrest is unknown. In April 2015, he was convicted of DUI and sentenced to 36 months of probation, 48 hours in jail, to pay a fine, and to attend a 40-hour alcohol-awareness class.  He completed his sentence to jail and the alcohol-awareness class, and he paid his fine.  One of the conditions of his probation was to not commit any criminal offenses, and to not operate a motor vehicle with any intoxicant in his body.  In  November  2016,  the  court  was  informed  that  Applicant  violated  probation  by driving with alcohol in his system as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.e, infra.  In November 2016, he was arraigned on the probation violation, and he received a fine of $1,666.   In  January  2017,  Applicant  was  tried  for  a  probation  violation,  and  he  was sentenced  to  six  days  in  jail.    In  April  2018,  his  probation  expired  by operation of law, and the court noted all fines and fees were paid.  It is unclear from the record whether probation violations are considered separate convictions under state law. SOR ¶ 1.d alleges in about February 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with  public  intoxication.    Applicant  admitted this allegation.   He was walking from a bar back to his hotel, and he said he slipped on some ice and fell.  There was no breathalyzer test.  He was unsure about whether his conviction was for an alcohol-related offense.  He received a small fine from the court. . SOR ¶ 1.e alleges and Applicant admitted that in about July 2016, he was arrested and charged with DUI.  He refused a breathalyzer and  blood-alcohol  test.    He  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI,  and  he  received  a  deferred sentence.  SOR ¶  1.f  alleges that  in  about January  2017,  Applicant was arrested  and  charged with  three  counts of  DUI.  He denied  that he  was charged  with  three  counts of  DUI.   He admitted  that  he  violated  the  terms of  his three-year probation, which was based on  his SOR ¶  1.c September 2014  DUI offense, and  his probation  was revoked.  He served six  days in jail, and  he paid his fine.  His probation “expired” on April 21, 2018.  His probation violation is resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.g alleges Applicant admitted that he drove under the influence of alcohol about  30  times.  He  denied  this  allegation.    Applicant’s  April  7,  2021  OPM  PSI indicates  “From  2008  until 2015,  subject  speculated  that  he  drove  under the  influence about 30 times.”  Applicant said he told the OPM investigator that he drank a 4 beer and then drove on multiple occasions; however, he did not believe he was under the influence of alcohol when he was driving.  SOR ¶ 1.h alleges that in 2015, Applicant consumed alcohol to the point of having a blackout. Applicant admitted the allegation.  Applicant’s April 7, 2021  OPM  PSI  indicates  “he  has  blacked  out  on  a  few  occasions;  he  was  not  more specific. Subject last consumed alcohol to the point of having a blackout . . . in 2016.”  At his hearing, he said he had not had a blackout.  Applicant has never been hospitalized for alcohol consumption.  He has not attended any Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings.  He denied that he had been  ordered  to  seek alcohol-related  counseling.   He did  not  receive  any recommendations for additional alcohol treatment after he completed the court-ordered alcohol awareness class.  He promised not to drive after consuming any alcohol.  He promised not to excessively consume alcohol.  In  sum,  Applicant  has  five  alcohol-related  arrests  or  charges  and  about  three alcohol-related  convictions.    His  2003  DUI  arrest  resulted  in  an  unspecified misdemeanor conviction, and his February 2015, public intoxication arrest may not have resulted in an alcohol-related conviction. His 2017 alcohol-related charge was a probation violation for his 2016 DUI arrest. Applicant believes he has been responsibly consuming alcohol for several years. His current alcohol consumption is an occasional glass of wine with dinner.  He most recently drank three or four beers during a single day about six days before his hearing.  SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges that the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.e under the criminal conduct guideline. SOR ¶ 2.b alleges in June 2016, a protective order was filed against  Applicant, and in December 2019, three counts of violation of the protection order were filed against Applicant. Applicant’s live-in girlfriend filed a protective order; however, after she filed it, she and her daughter sent Applicant messages over the Internet.  Applicant responded to their messages in violation of the protection order.  In his December 16, 2020 SCA, Applicant said that he was aware of two warrants issued in 2016 and 2017.  He said the warrants were for emails he sent in violation of the protection order. In the SCA, he described his plans for resolution of the warrant as follows: I’ve  recently  found  out  that [she]  had  previously  complained  that I violated the  protective   order and   there   are  court   proceedings  regarding   this issue . . . I  have  an  attorney  and  plan  to  fight  the  allegations. We  are  waiting  for the  window  of  opportunity  to  address these  issues. COVID-19  has been  a major inhibitor in being  able to  address these  issues faster. I  plan  on  visiting [the city where the court is located] after Christmas and New Year break to address the issue.  5 At  his  hearing,  Applicant  said  he  learned  about  the  arrest  warrant  during  the security clearance process.  The three counts are unresolved; however, Applicant has a counsel who is helping him get the charges resolved.  The bond is $8,000, and Applicant is saving money for the bond.  There is a possibility the bond might be waived or reduced.  He intends to travel to the court where he has an open warrant for violations of a protection order “as soon as possible.”   On September 19, 2022, he promised to report to the court to address the charges in the next calendar year.  SOR ¶ 3.a cross alleges the information in SOR ¶¶ 1 and 2 under the personal conduct guideline. Applicant is actively involved in his community.  He does charity bike rides and teaches yoga classes.  He loves his work and his coworkers.  Financial Considerations-Federal Income  Tax Returns In Applicant’s December 16, 2020 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he had not filed his tax returns for TYs 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019.  He did not owe any taxes.   He  made  arrangements  to  file  these  tax  returns,  and  he  was  “honestly  not aware that not filing was adverse information  as [he] had been letting the Government keep some of [his] money.”  In 2021, Applicant filed his federal and state income tax returns for TYs 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, and 2020.  His TY 2016 federal income tax return is  dated  April  6,  2021.    Most  of  the  other tax  documents  he  provided  are undated and unsigned.  He filed the overdue tax returns before he received  the  SOR  in  November  2021.    He  was  traveling  frequently  for  his employment, and he said his failure to timely file his tax returns was “neglectful.”  He did not owe any taxes.  Credibility Issues Applicant’s  resume  submitted  as  Exhibit  D  to  his  SOR  response  indicates  he received a “BS” in aeronautical science in July 2014. In his December 16, 2020 SCA, he indicated he attended a university from May 2011 to October 2014 ; however, he did not receive a degree in aeronautical science.  At his hearing, he said he does not have a bachelor of science degree.  In Applicant’s December 2016 SCA,  Applicant said he had only two DUIs, which were  in  September  2014    and  July  2016  .    At  his hearing,  he  said  he  failed  to  disclose  his  2003  DUI  on  his  December  16,  2020  SCA because it was disclosed on previous SCAs.  He said he unintentionally failed to disclose his February 2015 public intoxication arrest.  6 