Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.~1.e.,  and  1.i.  and  1.j.  He denied  SOR  allegation  ¶  1.f.~1.h.,  1.k.  and  2.a.  and  2.b.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 69-year-old Chief Executive Officer  of a defense contractor. He has been CEO since November of 2015. He does not have a security clearance. He is divorced, and has three adult children.  Applicant is a dual-national with Finland.  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  his  sister  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Finland.  She  is retired  from  working  with  an  “oil  company.”  He  communicates  with  her  through  social media  on a  weekly basis, and  physically speaks to  her “maybe four times a  year.”  1.b.  Applicant  admits that his one  brother is a  citizen  and  resident  of  Finland.  “He is employed  . . . [by] a  Swedish industrial manufacturer.”   His communications with  this brother are  similar to that with his sister, noted above.  1.c. Applicant admits that his other brother is a citizen of Finland, but is a resident of France. He “runs a business with a business partner.” This second brother’s business is  “in  industrial  equipment  used  by  the  pharmaceutical  industry.”  Applicant  has  little contact with this brother, “maybe once in two years.”  1.d.  and   1.i.  Applicant   admits  that  he   has  a   very   close   female  friend   who   is  a citizen  of  Finland,  but  who  resides with  Applicant  much  of the  time  in the  United  States. 2 “She’s a  correspondent  for a  Finnish  newspaper.”  They  are  romantically  involved,  and they also co-own an apartment in Finland valued at about $357,000.  1.e. Applicant has been an Honorary Counsel for Finland from about January of 2019 to the present. “It’s completely pro bono. . . . no budget, no money, no payment.” He  dedicates  “two  or  three  hours  per  month,”  to  this  honorary  service  to  the  Finnish government.  1.f.  Applicant  denies  that  he   maintains  a   Finnish  bank  account  with   a   value   of over $800,000. He avers that it’s value varies between $10,000~$50,000.   1.g.  Applicant  denies  that   he   maintains  bank  accounts  and   business  interests, with  his three  children,  in Finland  valued  at nearly  $2,000,000.  He avers that the  bank accounts are  about  $30,000,  and  the  business investment  about  $700,000.   1.h.   and   1.k.  Applicant  denies  that   he   maintains   joint   bank   accounts   with   an individual and  with  two  businesses  in  Finland,  in the  Netherlands, and  in  England. He  is, in  fact,   CEO  and   co-owner  of  a   U.S.   business   worth   between   $6,000,000   and $20,000,000.  1.j.  Applicant   admits   that   he   co-owns  investments   in  Finland   valued   at   about $2,750.  This amount is diminutive in light of Applicant’s other foreign assets. Guideline C - Foreign Preference 2.a.   As   a   dual-national,  Applicant  voted   in   the   Finnish   Presidential  election   in about January of  2018.  2.b.  Applicant  will receive  a  monthly  pension  of  about $2,283  from  Finland   upon his retirement.  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  about  Finland:  The  United States  established  diplomatic  relations  with  Finland  in  1919,  following  its  1917 declaration  of  independence from  the  Russian  Empire.  The  United  States and  Finland have  enjoyed  decades  of  close  and  cordial  relations.  Finland  and  the  United  States belong to a number of the same international organizations. Finland has most recently applied for admission into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization . 3 