Applicant is a 53-year-old married woman. She has been legally separated from her husband  since  2017.    A  previous  marriage  ended  in  divorce.  She  earned  a bachelor’s degree in business accounting in 2001, and she earned a master’s degree in information systems management in 2005.  Since earning her master’s degree, she  has  worked  for  various  contractors  as an  information  technology  security  subject- matter expert. . She has been with her current employer for the last three years. Applicant is a veteran of the U.S. Army National Guard, where she served from 1989 to 2001. She was discharged honorably.  Applicant is highly respected in the community and on the job. One friend described her as a person with a steadfast character and resolute demeanor.  Other friends characterize  her  as  hard  working  ,  responsible,  and  honest.    Per  her supervisor, she “is one of the most dedicated, hardworking, and innovative people with whom [he has] had the pleasure to work.”  Applicant has a history of financial problems. They began in the mid-2010s when her marriage began to deteriorate. By the time the government initiated the background investigation in January 2021, she had incurred approximately $35,000 of delinquent debt, as alleged in the SOR.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.a, totaling approximately $15,800, was initially owed  to  a  credit  card  lender.  It  was  subsequently  transferred  to  a  collection  agent. Applicant clarified her SOR answer, testifying that she agreed that the debt was delinquent, but  contested  the  amount  overdue .   Applicant contacted the creditor, but was unable to settle the account because they requested a lump-sum which she was unable to afford.  After the issuance of the SOR, she retained an attorney to help her settle this account, as well as her other debts.   She provided no evidence of any progress made thus far. The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.b, totaling approximately $7,400, is another credit card balance. She contacted the credit card company, and was told the debt had been transferred to another lender.  When she contacted the new debt holder, they proposed a payment plan that she could not afford.  2 The  credit  card  debt  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.c,  totals  approximately  $6,750. Applicant contends that she contacted this creditor and settled the account for $3,000.  She provided no substantiating evidence. The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.d is a credit card with a balance of $5,443. Applicant  last  made  a  payment  on  this  account  in  mid-2019.    She  recently contacted the creditor to arrange a payment plan.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.e, totaling $96, is owed to a cable television company,  allegedly  for  the  balance  on  an  account  that  had  been  closed.   Applicant  contends  that  she  “must  have  provided  them  with  something”  because  they closed the account after their conversation.  Applicant has no documentation that the account was closed.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.f, totaling $277 is a gas station credit card. Applicant contends that she satisfied this debt through an electronic payment.  It is listed as settled on a credit bureau report of February 2021.  Applicant  contends  that  she  satisfied  multiple  other  delinquent  debts,  as  her financial situation gradually stabilized after her legal separation.  She did not elaborate, nor provide any documentation. Also, she contends that the amounts owed to the  creditors  alleged  in  the  SOR  are  lower  the  Government  alleged.  In  addition,  she contends that she lost many of her financial records when she relocated from the home she shared with her husband. In August 2019, Applicant went on a two-week vacation to Europe, visiting three countries.  The trip cost approximately $2,400.  In 2021, Applicant’s mother passed away.  Applicant exhausted her savings, totaling approximately $9,000, on burial expenses.  She contends that the money she had to spend on her mother’s interment impeded her ability to make better progress resolving her delinquent debts.  Applicant  earns  $182,000  annually.    She  has  been  earning  more  than $100,000 per year since 2016.   Applicant maintains a budget.  She has $1,000 of discretionary income remaining at the end of each month.  She testified that she is using her discretionary income to make extra payments on her bills.  She provided no evidence supporting this contention. 