Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d.  He admitted in part and denied in part the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.e, and 1.f. He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and Applicant admitted that from August 2014 to at least June 2019, he had suicidal ideations. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges and Applicant admitted that from May 2015 to at least December 2015, Applicant mutilated himself by cutting his body. SOR ¶ 2 1.c alleges and  Applicant admitted  that  from  December 2015  to  at  least January  2017,  he experienced  audio or visual hallucinations. SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  and  Applicant  admitted  from  April  2015  to  March  2016, Applicant  received  treatment  at  a  military  medical  center,  including  hospitalization  in December 2015. SOR ¶ 1.e alleges and Applicant admitted from May 2016 to January 2017, he received treatment at a civilian medical care provider.  He said he was unaware that he was diagnosed with major depressive disorder, social anxiety disorder, schizotypal personal disorder, and avoidant personality disorder.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  and  Applicant  admitted  in  December  2020,  a  licensed psychologist evaluated him.  He said he was unaware of the psychologist’s diagnosis  of  major  depressive  disorder,  unspecified  anxiety  disorder,  and  schizotypal personality  disorder.    The  psychologist  concluded  his  condition  may  impair  his judgment, stability, reliability, and trustworthiness.  Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  software  engineer  who  worked  for  a  DOD  contractor initially in 2019 as an intern.  He worked full time for the DOD contractor since August 2020.  He has never married, and he does not have children.  Applicant described his own personality as “highly introverted.”  When  Applicant  was  a  teenager,  he  participated  in  4H.  He  achieved  a  second- degree black belt in Tae Kwon Do .  In 2008, he was awarded a bachelor’s degree in business administration.  While he was in college, he put cigarettes out on his hand three or four times to show how tough he was.  After graduating from college with a 4.0 grade point average, he was unemployed from May of 2008 to September 2010.  From 2010 to 2012, a store employed him as a security guard for about 30 months.  Applicant described two physical  altercations  he  had  with  a  female  employee.  In  the  first  one,  he  was  injured; however, he did not report her for shoving him. In the second altercation, she pushed him first, and he pushed her back.  His employer fired him for engaging in a physical altercation with her.  On his February 12, 2019 SCA, he said he was fired for a “verbal dispute” with a coworker.  The woman in the altercation was taller and heavier than Applicant.  He was unemployed from May 2012 to July 2014.  Applicant has numerous relatives who were veterans of the U.S. military.  In 2014, he joined the Army when he was 30 years old.  In basic training, he had  suicidal  thoughts,  felt  depressed,  and  had  panic  attacks.    In  basic training, he was awarded the expert marksman badge, and he was promoted to specialist  because he had a bachelor’s degree.  At his personal appearance, he denied that he cut himself or did anything to hurt himself while he was in basic training.  However, his medical records reflect that he began cutting himself while he was in basic training.  Applicant said the person who made the comment in his  medical  records  about  him  cutting  himself  may  have  misinterpreted  something  he said.  3 After basic training, Applicant went to Officers Candidate School .  OCS  was  stressful for him, and he had suicidal ideations, panic attacks, and probably depression.  He disclosed the suicidal ideations to student leadership; they took him to the duty officer; and then he went to the hospital.  He was under observation at the hospital for an hour or two, and then he was sent back to OCS.  The next morning, he was terminated from OCS.  He remained in a holding  company  after  being  discharged  from  the  OCS  course.    He  initially refused antidepressants because he was worried that they would increase his suicidal ideations.    Later  he  tried  several  medications  to  treat  anxiety.    One medication was changed because he had nightmares.  Applicant was transferred from his OCS installation to an installation in the United States  for  advanced  individual  training  ,  where  he  was  trained  to  be  a  chaplain’s assistant.  While in AIT, he finished his anxiety medication, and he did not seek a refill of his anxiety medication.  In AIT, he had suicidal ideations, anxiety, and depression.    As  for  his  method  of  committing  suicide,  he  considered  using  a Gerber knife to cut his femoral or brachial arteries.  In January or February 2015, Applicant went to his first non-training assignment, which  was  at  an  installation  in  the  United  States.    Early  in  2015,  he  sought mental-health treatment for suicidal ideations, anxiety, and depression.  He had difficulties with stress caused by being on an Army installation.  He felt anxiety when  he  was  responsible  for  making  arrangements  for  events  such  as  meetings  and prayer luncheons.  He felt anxiety most days, and sometimes he experienced spikes of anxiety throughout the day.  The anxiety spikes would last from a few minutes to more than an hour, and he felt squeezing in his chest and brain, an increased heart rate, jitteriness, and occasionally he bit the inside of his cheek.  He was prescribed Paxil, Buspar, Abilify, and propranolol.  He took all of these medications every day.  In 2015, Applicant was superficially cutting his chest and his back with his Gerber knife,  and  he  had  audio  and  visual  hallucinations  .    In September 2015, a noncommissioned officer observed the cuts on his back, and he took Applicant to the emergency room.   The emergency room examined the cuts and released him.  He did not receive stiches.  He was unsure why  he  cut  himself;  however,  he  suggested  the  cuttings  could  be  a  side  effect  from medications  or  possibly  situational.    It  could  also  have  been  because cutting himself was something he could control, or perhaps he was replacing emotional pain with physical pain.  Applicant’s visual hallucinations were of the pony character from a cartoon called My Little Pony, and the pony’s name was Rainbow Dash.  He told his providers that the Rainbow Dash image was soothing.  Sometimes Rainbow Dash would talk to him.  In July 2015, he had a “distressing” vision of the face of the Joker from  Batman  coming  at  him.    Applicant’s  medical  records  indicate  on September 11, 2015, Applicant forgot to take his Paxil and Buspar, and he had “paranoid delusions  about  bombs  being  planted  in  trailers.”    At  his 4 hearing,  Applicant   denied   having   a   memory   about   bombs   in   a   trailer.     He remembered  a  vision  of a  lion  biting  his head,  and  he  heard a  voice from  the  Spiderman 2  movie,  which said “they  hate  you, you  should die,  they  will be  better off  without you.”   Applicant   found   this  voice  to   be   “disconcerting,”  and   he   felt  an   urge   to   kill himself.   He took his Buspar, and  he  was able to  calm  down  and  sleep  that night despite  the  AVH.  On December 22, 2015, Applicant saw a man with a woman he liked.  He felt  suicidal,  and  he  had  a  friend  take  him  to  the  emergency  room.    In  his Department  of  Veterans  Affairs    medical  records,  he  said,  “‘I  was  seeing  rainbow dash and heard voice at that time, had plan to use a knife to cut wrist or brachial arteries.’” The  records  note  a  “[diagnosis  including]  schizotypal  personality  disorder  and  social anxiety.”  Applicant was an inpatient for a week in a military mental health facility following his visit to the emergency room.  On  December  29,  2015,  the  Army’s  primary  diagnoses  were  Anxiety  Disorder unspecified, Schizoid Personality Disorder, Avoidant Personality Disorder.  The December 29, 2015 note states: SM  endorses  AVH 2-3  times a  week. SM  elaborates  that  he  often  sees a character  from   a   popular  children’s  animated   TV   show,  and   says  the character is benign  and  gives him  encouragement and  positive  feedback. SM   acknowledges  this  character  is  not  real,   and   adds  that  it  sometimes worries  him   that  he   is  seeing   and   hearing   it.  SM   denies   command encouraging   him   to   self-harm,  but  recounts  an   instance   when   he   did  not take  his medication  and  experienced  AVH which  were “scary, and  told me to  do  bad  stuff”. . . SM  endorses self-harm  behavior, and  elaborates he  cuts himself  superficially  on  the  chest back about once  a  week using  a  Gerber tool.  SM  says his cutting  gives him  a  sense  of  release  and  that he  began cutting during basic training.  On January 26, 2016, Applicant completed a checklist and indicated he had special powers.  At his hearing, he said he could not remember anything about the special powers.  In April 2016, he was administratively discharged from the Army.  He could not remember the specific reason for the administrative discharge; however, it could have been for a personality disorder.  When he left the Army, he was taking Paxil, Buspar, Abilify, and propranolol.  He continued to take these four medication for several months after being discharged from the Army.  He did not receive a medical discharge or medical retirement from the Army, and he is not receiving VA disability pay.  After he left the Army, the AVH ended.  After leaving the Army, Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in computer science with a 3.9 grade point average, which he received in May 2020.  He received mental-health counseling from the VA.  The VA gradually reduced his medications,  and  he  said  the  hallucinations  decreased.    In  2017,  the  AVH stopped.  5 At his hearing, Applicant denied that he ever cut his wrist.  On May 9, 2016, Applicant told a VA psychiatrist that he showed a suicidal ideation and cut his wrist in July 2015.  The VA psychiatrist’s note  quotes Applicant as stating “Because  of  too  much  stress  from  training  and  loneliness,  I  cried,  was  feeling  kind  of helpless, did a superficial wrist cut, then received a mental health assessment. The doctor thought I was making it up. He didn’t give me medication.”  On May 9, 2016, Applicant had a VA appointment, and he said he was taking Paxil, Buspar, Abilify, and propranolol.  Applicant said he was stable and did not have AVH.  At that time, his VA diagnosis was: Major Depressive Disorder, Recurrent, unspecified; Anxiety Disorder, unspecified; rule out personality disorder.  Applicant’s last visit with a VA psychiatrist was on January 31, 2017, and at that time, he had NOT taken his medications for more than two months.   He  told  the  VA  doctor  that  he  had  not  had  problems  in  the  last  two  months; however, he said he was having visual hallucinations of Rainbow Dash a few times each week.  The VA treatment plan was for him to return to the clinic in the event that his symptoms worsen.  A January 31, 2017 VA treatment note indicates, “coping with symptoms, risk of relapse off medications.”  The diagnosis was “Social anxiety disorder.”  In June of 2018, Applicant did not get a good grade on an examination while he was  in  college.  He  waited  for  about  month,  and  he  slashed  two  tires  on  a  neighbor’s vehicle. Applicant described the incident as follows: Well,  there  was  a  neighbor  across  the  street,  they  had  an  SUV  with  an overly  sensitive  alarm.  Sometimes  they  go  off  for  no  reason.  And  well, during that class, I had an exam, and it went off three times in one hour the night before the exam, and in that exam, I got a D. The first time I've ever got a grade even close to that low in higher education. So that night, you know, it was going off again, I was upset, drunk, and I made the horribly regrettable decision to go across the street and slash two of their tires.  Applicant said he felt guilty about what he had done, and he paid for the repairs for the vehicle plus a couple hundred dollars.  His neighbor did not report the incident to the  police.    During  his  June  18,  2019  Office  of  Personnel  Management  interview, he said he was still having brief suicidal thoughts.  On January 11, 2021, Dr. B, who is a licensed clinical psychologist, issued a report relating to Applicant’s mental health at the request of the DOD CAF.  Applicant told Dr. B that he was discharged from the Army for “requiring a prescription for a non- deployable  medication.”    He  was  not  currently  prescribed  mental-health medications.  He had not had mental-health treatment or counseling since leaving VA treatment, and he did not believe he needed treatment.  He most recently had thoughts of suicide after receiving a B in a course in 2018.  As for the AVH, Applicant told Dr. B: 6 During 2015, [Applicant] had some psychotic symptoms. He would see a My Little Pony character, Rainbow Dash, most of the time. He reported that he enjoyed watching My Little Ponies because he found it calming. When stressed, he would see this pony out of the corner of his eye, and the pony would tell him calming/reassuring things and then disappear. There were, however, a couple [of] incidents where he heard voices telling him to hurt himself and once he saw something biting his head.  Dr. B’s  diagnoses were  as follows: “Major depressive  disorder, recurrent,  severe with   psychotic  features  in full   remission;  Unspecified   anxiety   disorder; and   Schizotypal personality  disorder.”   She  explained  the  schizotypal personality  disorder as follows: This  included  unusual  thinking,  perceptions,  and  beliefs;  lack  of  close friends  outside  of  his  family  of  origin;  unusual  emotional  responses;  and excessive  social  discomfort.  While  some  of  his  personality  traits  are unusual, they would not preclude his ability to maintain security of sensitive information  appropriately.  He  does  appear  quite  anxious,  and  could  be persuaded to share information through manipulation. His depression is in remission,  and  might  remain  so,  given  that  it  occurred  only  during  his military experience; however, it is plausible that it would recur during other times of stress. [Applicant’s]  prognosis   is  guarded   overall.  He  is  doing   well   compared   to prior  times  of  great  emotional   distress.   Still,  he   does  have   conditions  of anxiety   and   depression   that  have   been   quite   severe  at   times  and   might recur. Therefore,  if  not  in treatment,  I would have  concerns regarding  his judgment,  stability, and  trustworthiness. . . . [Applicant]  would benefit from regular treatment for his emotional distress and  personality  disorder. This would mitigate  my  concerns that his conditions could  impede  his  functioning with regard to possessing protected information.  Dr. D was a  witness on  Applicant’s behalf  at  his hearing. Dr. D  is a clinical and forensic psychologist who is board certified in clinical psychology.  He served on active duty in the Navy for five years, and he has been in private practice since 2008.   He  has  done  thousands  of  security-related  evaluations  for  federal  entities, including DOD and the Navy, states, municipalities, and private companies.  He spent at least three hours interviewing Applicant, and he examined medical records, Dr. B’s report, and the results of psychological tests.  Dr. D informed Applicant before the interview that there was no confidentiality, and if Applicant said anything negative, he would have to report the information.  Dr. D noted that Applicant had, “A distinct tendency toward avoiding self disclosure [which] is evident in this patient's response style.”  Nevertheless, Dr. D believed that Applicant’s  self-report  to  him  of  the  current  absence  of  hallucinations  was  accurate because usually hallucinations are accompanied by body language such as scanning the room  with  eyes  due  to  paranoia,  and  Applicant  did  not  show  behavior  consistent  with 7 paranoia.  A person with hallucinations usually believes hallucinations are real; however, when Applicant previously had hallucinations, he was aware they were not real.   Dr.  D  did  not  explain  why  Applicant  would  be  paranoid  if  he  believed  the hallucinations about Rainbow Dash were not real and were soothing. Dr. D said the  psychological tests showed  Applicant was minimally  depressed  and he  had  low  anxiety.  There was no  evidence  of  alcohol use  or abuse  of  illegal drugs.    The   Millon   Clinical  Multiaxial  Inventory-IV     test  showed “somewhat of  a  defensive  profile;” however, the  test was still  valid.  The  MCMI- IV  test did  not indicate  a  personality  disorder.  He had  some  peaks  during  the test; however, he  considered  Applicant to  be  in the  normal,  healthy  range.   His Personality Assessment Inventory  showed a  “very  defensive”  profile; however, this profile  was not significant enough  to  invalidate  the  test.   He was “two  standard  deviations above  the  mean  for  defensiveness.”  Dr. D  concluded Applicant’s high  level of compulsiveness enabled  Dr. D  to  validate  Applicant’s  PAI.  The  PAI showed no  psychopathology  and  the  results were within normal  limits.   However, the  defensiveness indicated  a  reluctance  to  disclose  information, and  the PAI administered  for Dr. B’s evaluation  did  not report this defensiveness.  He  readily   disclosed   information   to   the   Army   about  his dreams  and   hallucinations  that most people would not freely disclose.  Dr. D reviewed Dr. B’s report, and he disagreed with her findings and conclusions.  Dr. D believed Dr. B was influenced by “diagnostic momentum phenomenon” in which she “basically rubber stamped” the diagnosis in Applicant’s medical records.  Dr. D concluded that there was a “strong possibility” that Applicant experienced  “serotonin  syndrome,”  which  was  caused  by  the  interaction  of  three psychotropic medications, and serotonin syndrome contributed to or caused Applicant’s mood changes and hallucinations.  The other causes could be due  to  his  medications  or  suicidal  thoughts.    Serotonin  could  accentuate  the negative effects of other medications such as Paxil and Buspar.  He believed Applicant’s perceptual disturbances started due to taking serotonin.  Dr. D did not diagnose Applicant with serotonin syndrome because he is not Applicant’s prescribing psychologist or psychiatrist.  Applicant told Dr. D that “since leaving the Army, he has not seen Rainbow Dash again. Applicant said once he left the Army things rapidly improved for him.”  However,  the  VA  medical  records  indicate  Applicant  continued  to  see  Rainbow  Dash throughout his VA treatment. In a subsequent visit with Dr. D, Applicant said that he had the visual hallucinations for a couple of weeks after he stopped taking the medications; however, later in the interview, he told Dr. D “that all hallucinations he had were isolated to his military experience.”  After Applicant stopped taking serotonin the disturbances decreased, and a month or so later, the disturbances ended.  His hallucinations were brief and episodic and  “only  occurred  while  he  was  on  the  medication.”    Applicant  told  Dr.  D  in October 2021 that he was still having brief suicidal thoughts when he was feeling stress.  Dr. D said that serotonin continues to affect a person for one or two weeks 8 after the person stops taking it.  Serotonin syndrome can also occur from taking a combination of other medications.  Dr. D did not observe  that Applicant’s hallucinations were worse when  he  forgot to take  his medications.   Dr. D did not indicate  in his report that Applicant slashed his  neighbor’s  tires.      Dr.   D  decided   the   tire-slashing   incident  was  an   outlier because there were no other alcohol-related incidents.  He does not believe Applicant needs mental-health treatment.  Dr.  D  described   Applicant  as  having   “a  rigid,   compulsive,  socially-anxious personality.”    He  had   a   significant  adjustment  disorder  and   an unspecified  anxiety  disorder when  he  was in the  Army.  Dr. D did not believe Applicant had  a  schizotypal diagnosis because  he  did not  have  magical  thinking.  Dr. D did not agree  with  the  diagnosis of  depression  because  Applicant did  not exhibit depression  in a  recurring  fashion, that is, it did not occur pre-Army  service or after his discharge.    Dr.  D  was  unable  to   diagnose   Applicant  with   a   mental-health   or personality  disorder.  He  found  Applicant  to  be  psychologically  fit to  have access to classified information.  Dr. D concluded: Moreover, I found no evidence of him having a major depressive disorder, a  psychotic  disorder,  or  a  schizotypal  personality  disorder,  and  to  in  fact present  very  similarly  to  those  in  the  computer  science  field  working  as software  engineers.  These  individuals  are  often  introverted  and  less interpersonally  skilled.  To  be  clear,  I  found  no  evidence  to  suggest  any concerns about his reliability, judgment, stability, or trustworthiness. I find him  psychologically  suitable  to  handle,  manage,  and  maintain  classified information.  Applicant lives alone.  He does not have family living in the state where he lives.  He plans to move to the state where his family lives.  He does not have a significant other in his life, and he has not had an intimate relationship with a significant other for about 10 years.  Applicant said in about  2019, the  suicidal ideations stopped.  He   said   he  had   zero  suicidal thoughts  in   2022.     He   has   not   had   serious anxiety  since  May  of 2020.   He  does not  experience  problems  sleeping.  He  has not  cut  himself for several years.  He  has not had  any  homicidal ideations.     He  has  not   received   mental-health   treatment  since   January   31, 2017.   He does not  believe  his  current employment  is  stressful.  He has good relationships with his coworkers.  Character Evidence Applicant’s performance evaluation working for his current employer is excellent.  His first and second level supervisors, four coworkers, his mother, and his brother provided statements supporting Applicant’s access to classified information.  The general sense of their statements is that Applicant is reliable, responsible, diligent, and 9 professional.  His second level supervisor said Applicant is a “reliable and trustworthy employee that is accountable,” and he said: [Applicant] is dedicated to the team’s mission and can be counted on to get the job done no matter the task. Over the past few months, I have been able to observe [him] grow professionally and work through the learning curve of transitioning  from  being  a  software  developer  to  a  software  quality assurance  engineer.  I  have  no  doubt  that  [he]  will  continue  to  grow  and progress as he further develops and hones his skillset moving forward.  