In Applicant’s SOR response, he denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c.  Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  level-four  project  manager  employed  by  a  DOD contractor for five and a half years.  He has been married 26 years, and his two  children  are ages 23  and  25.  In  1988, he  received  a  bachelor’s degree  in electrical engineering.  He  has a  project  management  professional certification and another specialty professional certification.  Personal Conduct In  the  1980s while  in college, Applicant used  marijuana,  but not cocaine.   Around   late   1995   to   early   1996,  he   was   using   cocaine   about  every   two   weeks  on paydays.  He may have been addicted to cocaine in 1996.  In 1996, Applicant purchased some crack cocaine.  When he was on his way back to his vehicle, the police arrested him.  He dropped the cocaine onto the ground, and when the police searched him, they did not find any cocaine.  The police accused him of delivering cocaine to the cocaine dealers.  He was charged with felony-level possession of cocaine with intent to distribute.  The charge was reduced to misdemeanor-level cocaine possession.  Applicant was prosecuted in  state  court  and  not  in  federal  court.  He  was  not  prosecuted  under  the  Controlled Substance Act, which is a federal statute. Applicant received probation before judgment.  He did not remember the length of the probation; however, he believed it was for less than one year.  He successfully completed the probation period, and the cocaine possession charge was dismissed.   On May 22, 2000, a state court  ordered  expungement  of  Applicant’s  arrest  for  cocaine  possession  and  cocaine 2 possession  with  intent  to  distribute  from  local,  state,  and federal  law enforcement  and court records.  A federal court did not order expungement of his state court charge. This is Applicant’s sole criminal arrest or charge.  He did not use illegal drugs after August 1996, and he never sold illegal drugs.   He has never had problems at work or in school due to fraudulent or dishonest behavior.  He has never been accused of a security violation.  All of his character witnesses are aware of his cocaine offense.  He apologized for the errors on his SCAs.  He described himself as an honest and trustworthy person.  Applicant’s  attorney  verbally  advised  him  when  he  was  in  court  on  the  cocaine charge  that  after  the  expungement,  if  he  was  asked  on  a  job  application  about  being charged, he “could truthfully answer no, that it never happened.”  His attorney never  advised  Applicant  on  the  information  to  provide  to  complete  his  SCA.   Applicant believed that after the expungement he could deny that he was charged on his SCA.  He claimed he was not embarrassed by his conduct in 2004, and he is not embarrassed by it now.  He has moved on from the offense.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant deliberately omitted material facts on his March 25, 2004 SCA when he answered “No” in response to questions 21 and 24, which state as follows: 21. Your Police Record –  Felony Offenses Have  you  ever  been  charged  with  or  convicted  of  any  felony  offense?   24. Your Police Record –  Alcohol/Drug Offenses Have you ever been charged with or convicted of any offense related to alcohol or drugs?  Questions 21 and 24 included the following exception to disclosure: For this item,  report information   regardless  of   whether the   record  in   your case  has been  “sealed” or otherwise stricken  from  the  record. The   single exception   to   this requirement  is for certain  convictions  under the   Federal Controlled   Substances  Act  for  the   court  issued   an   expungement  order under the authority of  21 U.S.C. 844 or 18 U.S.C. 3607.   Applicant answered “No” to these questions on his 2004 SCA.  He said he did not remember his state of mind when he completed these two questions on his 2004 SCA.  He remembered that there was a time constraint for completion of the 2004 SCA.  He acknowledged it was his responsibility to ensure the 2004 SCA included accurate information.  He believed he would have answered “No” because of the advice he received from his attorney about not needing to disclose the charge due to its expungement.  He believed his answer was truthful because of the advice from his attorney.  He did not believe his cocaine charge would have 3 affected his security clearance.  He did not receive a copy of his 2004 SCA, and he did not review it after completing it.  SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant falsified material facts in Section 22 of his July 30, 2014 SCA. Section 22-Police Records states: For this section  report information  regardless of  whether record  in your case has been sealed, expunged, or otherwise stricken  from  the court record, or the   charge   was  dismissed.  You   need   not   report   convictions  under  the Federal  Controlled   Substances  Act  for  which  the   court  ordered   an expungement order  under the  authority  of 21  U.S.C. 844  or 18  U.S.C. 3607. Police  Record   Other than  those  offenses already  listed, have  you EVER had  the  following  happen  to  you?  Have  you  EVER been  convicted  in any  court of  the  United  States of  a  crime, sentenced  to  imprisonment for a term  exceeding  1  year  for that crime, and  incarcerated  as a  result  of  that sentence for not  less  than  1  year? Have  you EVER been  charged  with  any felony   offense?   Have   you   EVER  been   charged   with   an   offense   involving alcohol or drugs?   Appellant  answered  “No” to  these  last  two  questions,  and  he  did not disclose  his 1996  felony  charge  of  possession  of  cocaine  with  intent to  distribute.   He  said he probably  did not thoroughly  read  the  instruction  about  disclosing  expunged  information when   he   completed   his  2014   SCA.     He  was  probably   thinking   about  his attorney’s advice that he  need  not disclose  the  drug  offense  in  1996.   He relied  on his attorney’s advice  that he  could answer “No” because  the  charge  was expunged.  SOR ¶  1.b  alleges Applicant falsified  material facts in Section  23  of  his July  30, 2014  SCA, which states  “Section  23  - Illegal use  of  Drugs or Drug  Activity  –  Voluntary Treatment Have  you  EVER voluntarily  sought  counseling  or treatment as a  result of  your use  of a  drug  or  controlled  substance?”  Applicant  answered  “No.”  He  did not disclose his drug treatment from February 1997 to about May 1997. In   1997,   Applicant  attended   a   12   to   16   week  intensive   outpatient  treatment program,  which  entailed   attendance   three   days  a   week  for  90   to   120   minutes   of  daily group  counseling.  The  treatment was voluntary and  not court ordered.   He   successfully   completed   the   treatment   program.     He  also  attended Narcotics Anonymous meetings.  He answered  “No” on  his 2014  SCA  probably because   he   was  rushing   and   did   not  thoroughly   read   the   question.   His  facility security   officer  told  him   to   hurry   up   and   complete   the   form.    He estimated   that   he   took  about   two   days  to   complete   his  2014   SCA;   however,  he   only worked  on  it at work and  there were other work requirements.   He simply missed  the  question  and  the  erroneous answer was an  unintentional mistake.  His attorney  did not  tell  him  that he  could deny  that he  received  drug  treatment.   He agreed that he should have answered “Yes” to this question.  4 Applicant did not review  his 2014  SCA until he  was preparing  to  complete  his 2016 SCA.    When  Applicant  completed  his September 28, 2016  SCA, he  disclosed his arrest  for  possession  of cocaine  with  intent  to  distribute,  reduction  of the  charge  to cocaine   possession,   probation   before the   charge,  and expungement.    He  also  disclosed  his drug  treatment  in  the  1996  to  1997 timeframe.  He said he  disclosed  the  charge  and  drug  treatment because  he  read an  article about clearances, which indicated  expunged  charges such  as his 1996  cocaine offense  needed  to  be disclosed, and he  had more time  to  complete the  SCA.    The  article he  read  was similar to  the  article Applicant provided  at his hearing.   The  article indicates  it is a  common  error to  believe  a  non-federal expungement applies to limit the  disclosure requirement in SCAs. judgment,   dismissal  of Applicant did not remember the follow-up Office of Personnel Management  personal subject interviews  after he completed his 2004 and 2014 SCAs, and those PSIs were not exhibits in this case.  In 2017, he told the OPM investigator that he did  not  list  his  cocaine  charges  on  his  previous  SCAs  because  his  attorney  told  him expungement was “like the incidents did not happen and there was no need to list it on his case papers.”  His 2017 OPM PSI states that in 2014, he researched the issue of expunged information and learned it was better to disclose the information especially since  the  investigation  might  find  the  expunged  information.    His  emails  to another government agency corroborate his statement about the timing of his research about expungement occurring after he completed his 2014 SCA.  He denied that  he  told  the  OPM  investigator  that  the  reason  he  disclosed  the  charge  of  cocaine possession  with  intent  to  distribute  was  because  he  was  worried  about  investigators finding  the  expunged  information.    Applicant’s  statement  to  the  OPM investigator in 2017 was consistent with his hearing statement. Character Evidence Applicant provided  his  resume, nine  character letter references, awards,  and  his performance  appraisals from  2018  to  2020.  His employer,  customers, coworkers,  and trustworthiness, friends   praised   his   performance,   diligence, professionalism, and  contributions to  mission  accomplishment.    He   frequently   received   bonuses  and   pay   raises.      He   volunteered   in   his church and  community.   The  general  sense  of  the  character evidence  is that Applicant is an outstanding employee  and citizen. 