In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the debts alleged in the SOR , noting that all but one of his debts were in a debt relief program. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 35 years old. His first marriage, from 2015 to 2018, ended in divorce. He remarried in 2019. He did not disclose any children on his SCA. After earning his high school diploma in 2006, Applicant served briefly in the Air Force in 2007, before being medically discharged. Since then, he has been employed in the defense industry, with a clearance. He worked for a large defense contractor from 2014 to 2020, and has worked for a different employer and clearance sponsor since March 2020.  When Applicant submitted his most recent SCA, in January 2020, he disclosed a delinquent auto debt, noting that it was attributable to his divorce. He later discussed his financial issues in a background interview.  The  SOR  details  seven  delinquent  debts,  totaling  about  $37,000.  They  are established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  and  by  the  credit  reports  in  the  record,  from February 2020, October 2021, and January 2022.  Applicant states that SOR ¶ 1.g , a debt placed for collection by a power company, has been paid. This is supported by Government’s Item 5, which shows a zero balance. This account is resolved. The   remaining   accounts,   however, are  not   resolved.  SOR   ¶¶   1.a   ,   1.c , and  1.f  are debts  that have  been  charged  off  by  a  credit union. SOR ¶ 1.b  is a debt that has been charged  off by a bank. SOR ¶  1.d  is a debt that has been  charged  off  by  a  bank. SOR ¶ 1.e   is a  debt that has been placed 2 for  collection  by  a  phone  company.  Applicant  stated  in  his  SOR  Response  and  in  his FORM Response that he has entered these accounts into a debt relief service. Applicant documents that as of February 2022, he was in good standing with the debt resolution company.  However, with his October 2022 FORM Response, he provided no documentation of any payments, or any details about any arrangements or agreements to pay his debts, either through the debt relief company, or to the individual creditors. Applicant notes not  only  his February  2018  divorce but also  a  car accident around that  time  that  “totaled” his vehicle  . He notes that no  new  debts have  been  added  to  his credit since  the  2020  credit report. He notes that his debts are not resolved  but states that he  is working  with  the  debt relief   service.   He  references  a   stable  career   that  provides  regular  work,  even   after  he moved to a  new state.  Applicant  provided no documentation to  support his assertions that  his financial stability has improved. The record did not indicate that he participated in credit counseling through  the  debt  relief  company,  or  otherwise.  He  also  provided  no  details  about  his current assets, employment situation, or income stream, to determine the reasonableness of his efforts to resolve his debts. 