In her Answer to the SOR Applicant admitted the factual allegations in Paragraph 1  of  the  SOR,  and  denied  the  factual  allegations  in  Paragraph  2  of  the  SOR,  with explanations.  She  also  provided  additional  information  to  support  her  request  for eligibility for a security clearance. Applicant  is  30  years  old,  unmarried,  and  has  no  children.  She  works  for  a defense  contractor.   Applicant was born and raised in State A until about May of 2016, when she moved to State B, where she presently resides.  Guideline H –  Drug Involvement 1.a. and 1.b.  Applicant admits she used marijuana, with varying frequency from about 2008 until her last usage in March of 2021, more than a year prior to the issuance of the SOR. Applicant used it recreationally, but also to treat menstrual pains. Applicant admits  that  she  used  marijuana  after  being  granted  a  security  clearance  in  August  of 2018.  She has submitted a Statement of Intent against future illegal drug usage, and has submitted three negative drug tests: June 2022, and two in September 2022.  Guideline E  - Personal Conduct 2.a. Applicant answered,  “No,”  to  “Section 23  –  Illegal Use of Drugs  . . . in the last  seven  years”  on  her March 2021  e-QIP.  Applicant  avers, in part, that she  did not know the  use  of marijuana  was illegal.     I   find   this  to   be   a   willful   falsification   as   the   use   of  marijuana   is  illegal  under Federal law. Applicant  argues  that she  thought  that its use  is legal in State  B;  but this argument   holds  little  weight,   as  it  was   not   legal  in  State   A   where   she   resided   prior  to May 2016. 2.b.  Applicant  answered,   “No,”   to   “Section   23   –   Illegal  Use  of  Drugs   .  .  .   While Possessing   a   Security  Clearance”  on   her  March  2021   e-QIP.   Applicant  avers, in part,  that she  did not  know the  use  of  marijuana  was illegal.    I   find   this  to   be  a   willful   falsification  as the   use  of marijuana is illegal under Federal law. 2 2.c.   Applicant  also   previously  answered,   “No,”   to   “Section   23   –   Illegal  Use   of Drugs  . . . in the  last   seven  years”  on  her  February 2017  e-QIP.   Applicant  avers, in part,  that she  did not  know the  use  of  marijuana  was illegal.     I  find   this  to   be   a   willful   falsification   as  the   use   of  marijuana   is illegal under Federal   law.  Applicant’s   use   of   marijuana   was  not   legal  in   State   A   where she resided  prior to May 2016. 