Applicant admitted to all the allegations in the SOR. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He  has  been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  August  20,  2020.   Applicant is married, but separated from his current spouse, and has two children.  He served in the Marine Corps as an enlisted member, and was honorably discharged.  Guideline   M   -  Use   of  Information  Technology,   Guideline   D   -  Sexual  Behavior   & Guideline E  - Personal Conduct 1.a.,  2.a.  and  3.a.  Applicant  admits  that  beginning  in  at  least  January  2018,  he used  his  Government-Issued  computer  to  store  and  view  images  containing  sexually explicit,  sexually  orientated,  and/or  inappropriate  content.   As a  result  of  this,  on  June  3,  2019,  Applicant was  suspended  from duty and pay for 14 days, for Misuse of a Government Computer.   He was further advised that any further misconduct may result in a more severe disciplinary action.  1.b., 2.a. and 3.a. Applicant admits that from July 2019 to at least April 2020, he again  used  his  Government  computer  to  store  and  view  images  containing  sexually explicit,  sexually  orientated,  and/or  inappropriate  content.    As  a  result  of  this  misconduct,  on  June  16,  2020,  Applicant  was terminated  from  his  place  of  employment,  and  thereby  removed  from  Federal  service.  Most  recently,  in  September  of  2022,  a  Doctor  of  Psychology  determined Applicant  to  be  suffering  from  “compulsive  behavior,”  but  not  from  a  “compulsive disorder.”  She also averred, in part, the following: “I feel his lapse in judgment was the product of severe and atypical psychosocial stressors the specific nature of which he is unlikely  to  again  experience.”  The  Doctor  further  averred:  “the  preponderance  of  the evidence in this case suggests that . . . [Applicant] is a reliable, ethical, and trustworthy employee.”  