Applicant is a 43-year-old civilian for a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and material findings. Additional findings follow. 2 Background Applicant married in May 2019 and has two children from this marriage ,  in  addition  to  an  adult  daughter  from  a  prior  relationship    and  a stepson    from  this  marriage.    He  earned  a  high  school diploma in May 1997 and an associate’s degree in August 2008.   Applicant  attended  college  classes  between  August  2008  and  May  2009 without earning a degree or diploma.  He reported no military service. Since  March  2021,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense contractor  as  a  product  test  specialist.    He  earns  $60,000  from  this employment.  Between March 2015 and February 2021, he was employed as a crew leader for a landscape company.  Previously, he worked as an inside customer  representative  for  a  non-DoD  employer.    Applicant  has  never  held  a security clearance. Applicant’s  drug history Applicant was introduced  to  marijuana  in high  school  in 1996.   In  the  ensuing  years, he  increased  his use  of the  drug  to  regular use.  Between   2007   and   September  2019,   Applicant   used   and   purchased   marijuana   with varying  frequency  before giving  up  marijuana  altogether.   Applicant attributed   his  marijuana   use   and   purchases  to   being   young   and   immature.   Between   2006   and   2012,  Applicant  was   arrested   and   charged   with   marijuana- related   offenses  on   three   occasions:  in  January  2006,  in  June   2009,  and   in  October 2012.   Records document Applicant’s being  arrested  and  charged  in January 2006  with  marijuana-possession  for sale    of  a  weighted  amount  of  between  ¼ and ½  of  a  pound  of marijuana  and  a  drug  paraphernalia  violation  . The  felony charges were  reduced to  a misdemeanor, and Applicant was found guilty of a marijuana violation    in June  2006. In  turn, he  was sentenced  to  18  months  of un- supervised probation.  Following his completion of his probation conditions in 2007, Applicant resumed his usage of marijuana.  Returning from college in May 2009, he reinstituted his purchasing and selling of marijuana to earn money to pay his bills .  In June 2009, Applicant was  stopped and searched by police while driving his wife’s car. During their search of his wife’s car, police found ¼ of a pound of marijuana in the trunk.  After  searching  Applicant’s  wife’s  vehicle,  the  police  arrested  Applicant  and charged  him  with  narcotic  drug-possess  or  sale  ,  and  marijuana  possess/use .    Appearing  in  court  November  2009  to  answer  charges, Applicant  was  found  guilty  of  marijuana  violation  and  sentenced  to  three  years  of probation.    Applicant’s  felony  conviction  was  later  reduced  to  a 3 misdemeanor,  and  his  probation  conditions  were  reduced  to  30  months  of  probation.  Applicant was able to obtain an expungement of his marijuana violation and restoration of his voting rights in 2016.  Between   2009   and   2012,   Applicant   resumed   his   use   of   marijuana   but  did  not engage  in any selling  of the  substance.  In  October 2012, he  was arrested  and charged   with   marijuana-possess/use,  failure  to   appear  ,   and   drug paraphernalia   violation.    After  he   was  stopped   and searched   in  his  car,  police  found   a   bag   of  marijuana     and   drug paraphernalia.  Appearing in court to answer his 2012 drug charges, Applicant pled guilty to the drug paraphernalia violation charge in October 2012 and was fined $300 and ordered to perform  20  hours  of  community  service.    After  paying  the  fine  and completing  the  court-ordered  20  hours  of  community  service,  Applicant  was  able  to obtain an expungement  of these charges as well.  In   October  2014,   Applicant  was   involved   in   an   altercation   in   a   gambling   casino and  was detained  by police  for disorderly conduct.   Applicant had smoked  marijuana  earlier in the  day but was certain of his not being  under the  influence of  marijuana   when   he   was  detained   by  police.     Applicant  self-reported   the incident to  his facility security office   and  was  referred  for a  randomized urinalysis. , After failing  his administered  drug  test, he  was terminated  for cause.   Applicant has never been cited for any other failed urinalysis. Since  September  2019,  Applicant  has  sustained  his  abstinence  from  marijuana use and has avoided old acquaintances and others who use marijuana and who may be involved  in  marijuana  activities.    He  signed  and  submitted  a  statement  of intent  never  to  use  marijuana  or  other  illegal  drugs  again  at  the  risk  of  having  his security clearance suspended or revoked should any illegal drug be found in his system. He submitted this statement with the understanding that marijuana is banned by federal law  and  DoD  policy.    Asked  whether  his  statement  of  intent should be interpreted to include a waiver of his due process rights, he responded in the affirmative.  Endorsements  and work  recognitions Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  manager,  supervisor,  coworkers,  and  friends who have known Applicant for many years. ; Tr. 21-23) They credit Applicant with  overall  honesty,  integrity,  strong  work  ethic,  and  trustworthiness.   of Applicant’s support from his coworkers for his expedited handling of company work orders.  credited  Applicant  with factory  manager “shout outs” Whether  Applicant’s  character  references  were  aware  of  Applicant’s  past marijuana use and activities when they endorsed him is unclear. None of his references acknowledged  awareness  of  his  past  misuse  of  marijuana  or  any  other  illegal  drugs. 4 Nonetheless,  his  references  provided  strong  backing  of  his  overall  reliability  and trustworthiness and their letters are entitled to considerable weight. 