Applicant  is  a   57-year-old  married   man   with   two   adult  children   from   a   previous marriage.  He  earned   a   bachelor’s  degree  in 2008, and  in 2010, he  earned  a  master’s degree  in the  field  of  conflict management.   Applicant is a  veteran  of the  U.S.  Army. He served  on  active  duty  from  1984  to  1989. After leaving  activity  duty, he  affiliated with the  Army  Reserve  where he  served  from  1989  to  2019. He retired  honorably.  Applicant is a logistics management specialist. He has been working for his current employer  since  January  2020.    He  worked  with  his  previous  employer,  a military command, performing similar work from 2015 to 2019.  In   January   2016,  Applicant  went  on   temporary   travel  duty      with   a   female military  officer who  was superior to  him  on  the  unit’s organization  chart.  It  was not uncommon  for coworkers to  eat  dinner together while  on TDY. One  night,  while  at dinner with  the  officer, Applicant told her that if  she  was not married, “[he] would be  all  over [her],” and  that “what happens [on  TDY],  stays [on  TDY].”  She  rebuffed  his advances   and   did  not  immediately   report it  until some   time   later,   when   her supervisor asked   her  to   accompany   Applicant  to   another  TDY   assignment.      The coworker’s supervisor then  reported  the  allegation  to  the  unit commander that same  day.  Subsequently, the  unit commander appointed  an  investigator to  conduct a preliminary   inquiry   into   the   allegations.  During   the   investigation,  two   additional  female coworkers alleged  that  Applicant  had made  unwelcome  sexual  advances  toward  them.   One  of  the  sexual advances occurred  between  2016  and  2017  via the  following  e- mail exchange: Applicant:  So  how many do  you  have  in  your stables?  LOL Very curious about you. Coworker: NUNYA [None of your business] Applicant: So no room for anyone? Let me know when you have some free space. ) Two  of  the  women  noted  that Applicant’s relationship with  them  became  tense, confrontational, and intimidating after they rejected his advances. For example, one of the women stated that on one occasion, he intentionally bumped into her while walking by her in the hallway.  2 The investigator concluded that the allegations were substantiated, but did not rise to  the  level  of  sexual  harassment.  Moreover,  he  recommended  that  Applicant  attend trainings on sexual harassment, conflict and anger management skills, and professionalism in the workplace and on travel.  The woman that Applicant propositioned while on TDY stated that her relationship with him continued to deteriorate after the investigator released his report.  Her continued complaints prompted their supervisor, in July 2018, to initiate a hostile work environment  inquiry  into  Applicant’s  behavior.   The investigator took sworn statements from Applicant, the coworker that Applicant propositioned on TDY, three other employees, and a contractor. All of the people interviewed stated that Applicant’s behavior created a tense work environment. In addition, the contractor accused Applicant of flirting with her and rubbing himself against the back of her chair while she was seated in it. As with the other woman who had reported such behavior earlier, he became hostile when she rebuffed his advances, at one point yelling at  her to  “get her ass”  up from her chair to perform a task for him.  While  the  investigation  was  ongoing,  a  coworker,  who  was  not  involved  in  the ongoing in-house harassment investigation, filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission  against Applicant, alleging sexual harassment.  In the complaint, the employee stated that Applicant remarked on her looks, rubbed her shoulders on one occasion, and frequently asked her out.  The EEO complaint prompted the unit commander, in November 2018, to expand the investigation.  Per the expanded investigation, the investigator asked all of the command’s employees and  contractors if  they had  seen  or experienced  workplace sexual harassment from Applicant.  In response, several more women came forward to complain of sexual advances or inappropriate comments, including a woman who was the command’s special victim counsel on sexual harassment, and several women in subordinate positions  All of them prepared sworn statements. In addition  to  the  women  who  alleged  sexual harassment,  a coworker who witnessed an episode of inappropriate conduct provided a statement.  On  November  14,  2018,  Applicant  issued  a  sworn  statement,  as  part  of  the expanded  investigation.    During  the  ISCR  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  was unaware that he had been under investigation for sexual harassment until he received a notice of termination in June 2019.  During the  November 2018  investigation,  Applicant  denied  all of  the allegations except the allegation based on the email exchange, as set forth above. He characterized the email conversation as a continuation of harmless “banter” that the coworker initiated.  He stated that his superiors never wanted him in his position from the day he started  because  he  “wouldn’t  conform  to  what they  wanted  [him] to  do,”  and that their allegations against him were part of a conspiracy to replace him with someone whom they 3 desired.  As for the women in subordinate grade levels, he contended that they resented him because he was a stern, sometimes abrasive taskmaster who was holding them accountable.  In December 2018, the investigator issued a memorandum entitled “Supplemental Findings and Recommendations.”   He found  that Applicant’s denial of  the allegations  was  “dramatically”  outweighed  by  the  cumulative,  contrary  testimony,  and “entirely unconvincing.”  The investigator concluded that Applicant’s conduct created a hostile work environment, and recommended that he be suspended for seven days.  In  January  2019,  the  unit  commander  issued  a  memorandum  regarding  the investigator’s conclusion.  He approved the findings, but concluded that they merited termination, rather than suspension.  In reaching this conclusion, he noted that Applicant’s “failure to accept even the smallest responsibility for  [his] actions was troubling,” that rehabilitation “does not appear viable,” and that Applicant “[could] not be  trusted  to  be  alone  with  subordinate  personnel.”    Consequently,  the commander  issued  a  notice  of  decision  of  proposed  removal.    Applicant presented an oral reply to the proposal, together with several character reference letters.  In October 2019, the command executive officer sustained the proposed removal.  In  doing  so,  he  found  that  Applicant’s  “misconduct  eroded  the  chain  of command’s trust and  confidence,”  and  that his “lack of  ownership  over his actions . . . combined  with  the  pervasiveness  of  the  misbehavior  are  clear  indicators  of  a  lack  of rehabilitation potential.”  Moreover, he concluded that Applicant’s credibility was degraded by numerous inconsistencies in his reply.  In October 2019, the commander issued a decision letter officially removing Applicant from the job. Applicant appealed the decision to the Merit Systems Protection Board  After considering  Applicant’s  testimony and  the  sworn statements of  his accusers,  the MSPB, in July 2020, affirmed the decision. In doing so, the judge noted four times in the decision that Applicant was not credible.  At  the  MSPB  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  his conduct,  at  worst,  was  merely flirtatious,  and  that  flirting  was  human  nature.    Between  2016  and  2019, Applicant completed multiple trainings on sexual harassment in the workplace.  At  the  ISCR  hearing,  Applicant  reiterated  the  positions  he  took  during the  work investigation and the MSPB hearing. Also, he testified that he was a good, well-respected employee at the job from which he was terminated in 2019, and provided records, including multiple character references and good annual evaluations.  The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  emphasizing 