Applicant  is  52  years  old,  married,  and  has  four  adult  children.  He  has  been employed  as  an  architect  by  a  DoD  contractor  since  December  2017.  The  record evidence  contains  no  information  about  Applicant’s  education.  Applicant  has  held  a security clearance since 1993. On February 10, 2021, the DoD Continuous Evaluation Program  reported    that  a  January  7,  2021  credit  report  indicated  that Applicant had two delinquent accounts totaling about $20,000. Shortly thereafter the CAF issued  the  SOR.  Applicant  seeks  to  retain  his  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in connection with his employment.  Guideline F, Financial Considerations The Government alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he is financially overextended and therefore potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR lists  12  debts  that  are  charged-off  or  in  collection.  The  total  amount  of  the  debts  is approximately $71,000. The CE Report did not capture the full extent of Applicant’s debts. The existence and amounts of these debts is supported by Applicant’s admissions in his Answer and by credit reports in the record dated January 7, 2021; March 25, 2019; and May 23, 2018. The debts are also confirmed by statements reportedly made by Applicant 2 during  a  security  interview  conducted  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  on August 22, 2018.  In Applicant’s Answer, he advised that his financial delinquencies arose due to his son’s  addiction  to  opioids  and  related  multiple  rehabilitation  treatments  and  travel expenses. He also wrote that his wife and daughter have had significant medical issues that  caused him to  incur  unexpected medical expenses.  His medical insurance  covers much, but not all, of those expenses. In addition, he explained that that the COVID-19 pandemic  prevented  his  wife  from  working  because  she  has  a  compromised  immune system due to the medications she takes for her medical condition. This has resulted in a reduced family income available to pay their expenses.  In the e-QIP and during his security interview, Applicant provided additional details of unexpected expenses he has incurred in recent years and other mitigating conditions. His son with the addiction caused Applicant to pay restitution for money stolen by his son. The son also had a DUI arrest, which caused Applicant to incur legal fees and court costs. Applicant also noted that he had unforeseen auto repairs and higher interest rates and late fees due to late payments on his bills.  Applicant also noted that he was laid off in December  2017  and,  even  though  he  immediately  obtained  a  new  position  with  his current employer and clearance sponsor, he took a pay cut to remain employed.  Applicant provided no information or documentation regarding steps he has taken to resolve any of the 12 SOR debts. The details of the 12 SOR debts are as follows: 1.a. Credit account charged off in the approximate amount of $1,370. This debt is not resolved.  1.b.   Auto  loan  account  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $31,121. Applicant opened this account in 2015 to purchase a vehicle. This debt is not resolved.  1.c. Home mortgage loan account past due in the approximate amount of $1,423. Applicant  paid  his  past-due  mortgage  debt  and  his  mortgage  is  current.  This  debt  is resolved.  1.d. Consumer account in collection in the approximate amount of $18,743. This debt is not resolved.  1.e. Credit-card account charged off in the approximate amount of $2,252. This debt is not resolved.  1.f. Retail store account charged off in the approximate amount of $777. This debt is not resolved.  3 1.g.  Medical account in collection in the approximate amount of $401. This is not resolved.  1.h. Retail-store account charged off in the approximate amount of $1,114. This debt is not resolved.  1.i.  Credit-card account in collection in the approximate amount of $434. This debt is not resolved.  1.j. Online retail account charged off in the approximate amount of $1,164. This debt is not resolved.  1.k.  Credit-card account  charged off  in the approximate amount of $3,867.  This debt is not resolved.  1.l.  Credit-card  account  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $8,184.  This debt is not resolved.  Applicant  submitted  no  documentation  or  additional  information  concerning  his debts,  current  income,  retirement  savings,  or  his  family  budget.  Also,  he  provided  no information detailing his plans for resolving his past-due indebtedness or demonstrating other indicia of trustworthiness. According to the available record information, Applicant purchased his residence in January 2008 and, as of the date of the e-QIP, April 16, 2018, he continued to reside in that home. He provided no information regarding his equity in the home or any plans to use that equity to resolve his debts.  In his security interview, he made vague statements about working to resolve his delinquent  debts.  He  offered  no  specific  steps  he  is  taking  to  reduce  his  expenses  or otherwise enable him to repay his debts. He expressed no intention to work at a second, parttime job to repay his debts, or to seek a court-ordered, five-year repayment plan for all or part of his debts under a Chapter 13 bankruptcy reorganization plan.  