In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admits the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.j – 1.m, 1.w, and 1.x. She denies the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a –  1.i, and 1.n –  1.v with some explanations. Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  employee  of  a  DOD  contractor  who  seeks  a  security clearance. She has held a security clearance for over 22 years both on active duty and as a contractor. She served on active duty in the United States Army from May 1999 to November  2008.  She  served  two  overseas  tours  in  Korea  and  Iraq.  After  separating from  the  Army  in  2008  with  an  honorable  discharge,  she  served  in  the  reserve  until 2014.  She  also  consistently  worked  for  various  defense  contractors  since  2009.  She was employed by her current sponsor in 2021. At the hearing, she disclosed that since February 2022, she has worked as a contractor for a state agency. During the hearing, Department  Counsel  confirmed  Applicant  was  still  being  sponsored  for  a  security clearance. She is a high school graduate and has some college credit. She is divorced but  is  engaged  to  be  married  and  currently  resides  with  her  fiancé,  his  18-year-old daughter, and her 11-year-old nephew.   Financial Considerations The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial  irresponsibility.  The SOR alleged 22 delinquent accounts, with an approximate total balance of $50,950. The SOR  also  alleged  Appellant  filed  for  bankruptcy  on  two  occasions.  The  first  was  a Chapter 7 bankruptcy filed in January 2002. The debts were discharged  in April 2002.   The  second  bankruptcy was  a  Chapter 13  bankruptcy  which  was filed in May 2010. The Chapter 13 bankruptcy was dismissed in January 2012 for failure to make payments.  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in  2002  when  she  was  on  active  duty. She purchased a car for her mother. Applicant purchased the car in her name, but her mother agreed to make the payments. Her mother did not make the car payments and the  car  was  repossessed.  Applicant’s  wages  were  ultimately  garnished.  The garnishment  took  most  of  her  paycheck.  She  was  only  19  at  the  time.  Her  Sergeant Major suggested that she file for bankruptcy.  In May 2010, Applicant filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy. She made the payments on  the  plan  until  she  encountered  medical  problems  which  caused  her  to  leave  work. 2 Applicant’s mother moved  into  her  home. The  Chapter 13  was dismissed  in  2012.    Applicant occasionally  cared  for her  nephews which  caused  additional  expenses.   In 2014, her 15-year-old nephew  was murdered. A  misunderstanding  caused her to   be   let   go   from   her  employment,  but  she   was  able  to   find   another  job.   Applicant continued   to   care   for  her  mother   and   her   younger  nephew.   Her  mother  passed   away unexpectedly  in  2017,  which  caused  additional expenses. Applicant  testified  she  had  a choice to  pay  the  rent or the credit card bills. She  chose to  pay  the  rent.  Her priority was to  make sure she and  her nephew had a roof over their heads.  The status of the debts alleged in the SOR are as follows: SOR  ¶   1.a:  $11,325  delinquent  account  placed  for  collection.  Applicant  claims she was the second signer on this car loan. The car was repossessed. The debt is not paid. She is trying to settle this account. The debt remains unresolved.  SOR  ¶   1.b:  $10,172  balance  due  as  a  result  of  a  car  repossession.  Applicant testified that this was a voluntary car repossession. She claims the car was a lemon and she turned it in after repeatedly having to have the car repaired. She believes that she does not owe anything, but did not provide documentation to verify that the account is resolved. The debt remains unresolved.  SOR  ¶   1.c:  $9,818  balance  due  as  a  result  of  a  car  repossession.  Applicant testified that this was a voluntary car repossession. She claims the car was a lemon and she turned it in after repeatedly having to have the car repaired at the dealership. She believes  that  she  does  not  owe  anything,  but  did  not  provide  documentation  to  verify that this account is resolved. The debt remains unresolved.  SOR  ¶   1.d:  $3,582  delinquent  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection. Applicant testified that this debt was no longer on her credit report. The debt is listed on a  credit  report,  dated  April  21,  2021.  It  was  not  resolved  at  the  time,  but  it  noted Applicant disputed the debt. It does not appear to be on Applicant’s most recent credit reports dated in early January 2023.  SOR  ¶   1.e:  $3,176  charged-off  furniture  store  account.  Applicant  rented  this furniture as rent to own. She notified the company that she was moving and they could pick up the furniture. The furniture store never picked up the furniture. The debt remains unresolved.   SOR ¶  1.f:  $2,287 student loan account placed for collection. Applicant provided proof that her debt  resolution company was able to  successfully  dispute  this debt with the  credit  reporting  agencies.  It  was  removed  from  her  credit  report.  It  is  not  clear whether Applicant paid this loan.  SOR ¶  1.g:  $1,626 student loan account placed for collection. Applicant provided proof that her debt  resolution company was able to  successfully  dispute  this debt with 3 the  credit  reporting  agencies.  It  was  removed  from  her  credit  report.  It  is  not  clear whether Applicant paid this loan.  SOR  ¶   1.h:  $1,319  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection.  Status unknown.  SOR ¶  1.i: $996 medical account that was placed for collection. Status unknown.  SOR ¶  1.j: $703 charged off utility account. Applicant intends to pay this debt but did  not  submit  proof  of  payment  or  resolution.  The  debt  remained  unresolved  at  the close of the record.  SOR ¶  1.k: $460 charged off debt owed to a bank. Applicant provided proof that her  debt  resolution  company  successfully  disputed  this  account  to  the  credit  reporting agencies. It was removed from her credit report.  SOR ¶  1.l: $431 delinquent account owed to a bank placed for collection. Status of this account is unknown.  SOR ¶  1.m:  $316 charged off. Status of the debt is unknown.   SOR  ¶   1.n:  $170  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection.  Status unknown.  SOR   ¶  1.o:  $166  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection.  Status unknown.  SOR  ¶   1.p:   $123  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection.  Status unknown.  SOR  ¶   1.q:  $102  medical  account  that  was  placed  for  collection.  Status unknown.  SOR  ¶ 1.r: $69 medical account that was placed for collection. Status unknown.  SOR ¶  1.s:  $63 medical account that was placed for collection. Status unknown.  SOR ¶  1.t: $50 medical account that was placed for collection. Status unknown.  SOR  ¶   1.u:  $1,250  delinquent  furniture  store  account  that  was  charged  off. Applicant claims she purchased furniture for her mother. Her mother passed away and 4 her sister took the  furniture. She  hopes to  settle this  account. Status  of the  account is unknown at the close of the  record.   SOR ¶  1.v:   $2,746 delinquent cell phone account placed for collection. Applicant disputes  this  account.  She  transferred  to  another  cell  phone  company  and  does  not believe  the  debt  should  be  so  large.  Applicant’s  debt  resolution  company  successfully disputed this account with the credit reporting agencies. It was removed from her credit report.  During the hearing, Applicant indicated that she owes state income taxes for tax years  2012  and  2017.  She  is  in  process  of  resolving  her  delinquent  state  income  tax debts.  She  claims  both  state  income  tax  debts  are  almost  paid  off.   She has not filed her federal income tax returns for tax year 2021. She hired a person she knows to prepare and file her federal income taxes for 2020 and 2021. She never heard from her friend about  the  status of the  tax filings.  She had to  track her down  to retrieve her federal income tax documents. She filed her federal income tax returns for 2020,  but  not  2021.  She  intends  to  file  her  2021  federal  income  tax  returns  with  her 2022  federal  income  tax  returns.  She  believes  she  might  owe  the  Internal  Revenue Service  money, but she is unsure of the amount.  Applicant’s state and federal  income  tax  issues  are  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  I  cannot  consider  them  under matters  of  disqualification,  but  will  consider her  income  tax  problems  under matters  of extenuation and mitigation. In  ISCR  Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  ,  the  Appeal  Board listed  five  circumstances  in  which  conduct  not  alleged  in  an  SOR  may  be  considered stating:   to   assess  an   applicant’s  credibility;    to   evaluate   an   applicant’s evidence   of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or   changed   circumstances;      to consider  whether an  applicant  has demonstrated  successful  rehabilitation;  to  decide  whether a  particular  provision  of the  Adjudicative  Guidelines is  applicable;   or    to   provide   evidence   for whole   person   analysis  under Directive Section 6.3. Id. ;  ISCR  Case  No.  00- 0633  at 3  ). See  also  ISCR  Case  No. 12-09719  at 3    ).  The   non-SOR  allegations   will  not   be   considered except for the five purposes listed above. During the hearing, Applicant estimated that her monthly income is $12,760. Her monthly  expenses  total  $8,400  and  she  has  $4,000  left  over  each  month  after expenses. She puts the remainder in a savings account that she uses for emergencies. She  will  also  use  the  money  to  settle  delinquent  accounts.    Applicant testified her current employer does not provide health insurance. She recently received a medical diagnosis and has to pay for her prescription drugs out of pocket.  Applicant  wants  to  get  her  finances  in  order.  She  hired  a  debt  resolution company  to  help  with  disputing  the  debts.    She  and  her  fiancé  hope  to 5 purchase  a  home  after  they  are married.  She  is not  focused  on  her  older  debts.  She was advised by the debt resolution company to focus on her more recent debts because the  older  debts  should  have  dropped  off  her  credit  report  based  on  the  statute  of limitations.  She  is  focused  on  her  current  bills  so  she  can  support  herself  and  her nephew.  