In  her  handwritten  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  Guideline  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.h,  1.o, and  1.p.  She  denied  her  student  loans    noting  that  they  were  now current. She admitted both Guideline J allegations . As noted, the first answer did not address the Guideline E allegations. In  her  second,  typed  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  Guideline  F allegations  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.p,  with  a  general  explanation.  She  admitted  the  Guideline  J allegations at SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b, with explanations. Under Guideline E. she “admitted” SOR  ¶¶ 3.a-3.c, three  falsification  allegations,  but  with explanations  that  I  construe as denials. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. 2 This case resulted from Applicant’s May 2019 credit report, pulled via the DOD’s Continuous  Evaluation  Program  .  It  showed  over  $76,000  in  delinquent  debts. . Applicant submitted her SCA in August 2019.  Applicant is 40 years old. She is not married. She has two adult children   and  a  10-year-old  child,  for  whom  she  receives  child  support.  Her  eldest  and youngest children live with her. Applicant graduated high school in 2000 and has some college  education.  She  is  currently  taking  college  courses  .  Applicant worked sporadically during 2009, and then worked for a contractor for about a year, from 2010 to 2011. She was wrongfully terminated from that job after she became  pregnant.  She  did  not  work  for  about  the  next  year,  while  home  with  her daughter.  From  2012  to  2015,  Applicant  worked  a  variety  of  jobs  with  various contractors.  Since  2018,  she  has  worked  for  a  DOD  contractor  as  a  travel  manager. She began her career as an administrative assistant and has worked her way up from there.  She  has  an  annual  salary  of  about  $100,000.  She  has  had  a  clearance  since about 2009.  The  financial  allegations  in  the  SOR    relate  to  delinquent  federal student  loans  ,  plus  about  $19,000  in  consumer  debts  and  other delinquencies. The debts are established by credit reports from December 2019 , and  October  2020  ,  and  by  Applicant’s  admissions.  Many  of  the  debts  are  also listed on earlier credit reports, from May 2019 , July 2019 , pulled during the CEP, and by the November 2019 credit report  as well. Applicant  blamed  her  financial  troubles  on  “just  not  being  smart  with  money, [and] not being responsible” in paying her bills on time. She stated that she makes more money now and is able to address her debts and be more responsible.  Applicant enrolled  many of  her debts  in  a  debt consolidation  program.  She  claimed  she  started  the  program  in  either 2019   or  in  late  2021,   but  she   admitted  she   was   “guessing”   about  the   date.      She   said  the company  takes $350  twice  a  month.  She  later documented  a  list of creditors  enrolled  in the  program,  with  balances due.    AE  T includes 2022  account statements   from   company  GH.  Applicant  enrolled   in  the   company  in   March  2021,   and AE   T   appears  to   show  payments  to   creditors,  so   it   may   be   a   statement   from   the   debt relief company though  this is not clear.  SOR ¶ 1.a  is  the account for a repossessed motorcycle. The amount alleged is what was charged off after the motorcycle was sold at auction.  Applicant purchased the bike in 2014. She stopped making payments on the bike, in about 2016, because she did not want it anymore.  The bike was later repossessed.  3 The   creditor  agreed   to   settle   the   account   for  about  $3,621,  with   monthly payments   between  April  2022 and  March  2023.  The account  is enrolled  in the  debt  relief program.   The amount  owed  is now $11,971  .  This  account is not resolved. SOR ¶ 1.b  is a charged-off credit-card account with a department store. It became  delinquent  in  about  2015.    Applicant  enrolled  the account in the debt relief program.  Applicant received a settlement offer in 2021.  A recent credit report shows the account  was legally paid for less than the full balance and has been closed.  SOR ¶¶  1.c   and  1.d   are  past-due  debts  to  unidentified  medical creditors.    Applicant  said  she  was  unaware  of  these  debts  because  she  had medical  insurance.  She  contacted  the  hospital’s  collection  office  but  was  not  able  to resolve the debts. She stated that she intends to pay them.  The debt at ¶ 1.d is enrolled in the debt relief program but no settlement has been reached.  Applicant  was  in  a  car accident  in  February  2020  and  required medical  treatment  and physical  therapy.  Applicant  provided  documentation  about  resolution  of  some  of  her other medical accounts, with payments made in November 2022.  SOR ¶ 1.e  is a credit-card account placed for collection by a retailer.  Applicant believes the account is covered by the debt relief program.  A recent credit report shows that the account was charged off but closed with a zero balance.  SOR  ¶   1.f     is  an   account   placed   for  collection   by  a   bank.   Applicant became  aware in 2017  that this  account  was delinquent.   She  had a settlement  in  place  in April 2021  for  $288  and  is paying  on  the  debt.  She  indicated  post-hearing  that  she  will  pay  $50  a  month  until the  debt  is  resolved.   A  recent  credit report shows that the  balance  as of November 2022  was $361.    This account  is being resolved. SOR ¶ 1.g  is an account placed for collection by a retailer, concerning musical equipment.  The account became delinquent in 2019. The debt is being resolved through the debt relief company but no settlement amount is noted.  SOR ¶ 1.h  is an account placed for collection by a power company.  This account is a utility bill at an old apartment, Applicant asserts that this debt was paid several years ago but provided no documentation.  SOR ¶¶  1.i , 1.j , 1.k , 1.l , 1.m  , and 1.n    are federal  student  loans with  the  U.S. Department of  Education  , all  placed  for collection.   Applicant  acknowledged  missing  payments. She thought  they were  the  same  student  loans  as  with  creditor N,  but  now knows  differently. 4  She took out loans for more than she needed for tuition to cover other costs.  She said she has made no federal student loan payments on these accounts since at least 2015.  She has received no communication or correspondence from the USDOE about her loans,  A recent credit report lists all of these accounts, all with USDOE, as past due, in the amounts alleged, totaling over $59,500. These accounts are unresolved. At the time of the hearing, repayment of federal student loans had been on hold due  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic  under  multiple  Presidential  Executive  Orders  since March 2020. Federal student loan payments remain paused until at least June 30, 2023. See https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19;  As of May 2021, Applicant owed about $27,000 to private student loan creditor N, with nothing past due.  As of November 2022, she has an arrangement in place with  creditor  N  to  resume  $400  monthly  payments  in  January  2023  on  her  private student loans. The balance due is $28,789. No past-due amount is listed.  SOR ¶  1.o   is an account  placed  for collection  by a  phone  company.    Applicant   asserted   that   her  current   home   is  serviced   by   the   same   phone   company and she  is in good standing  but provided  no  documentation.  SOR  ¶  1.p    is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  insurance  company  P.  Applicant had insurance with company P at the time of her accident but changed companies  soon  thereafter.  She  settled  the  account  for  $300  and  is  disputing  the remainder.  Applicant does not owe past-due taxes or other delinquent debts. She keeps an informal  budget,  but  has  not  taken  any  formal  budget  or  financial  counseling  classes.   She  acknowledged  about  $17,000  in  credit  card  debt,  not alleged.    Many  of  the  delinquent  debts  in  the  SOR  are  also  listed  on  credit reports from 2021 and 2022 provided by Applicant.  In June 2013, Applicant was at work when she received a call that police were at her house. When she arrived, the police told her that they had found marijuana. It was found  in  a  baggie  in  her  young  son’s  closet.  He  was  in  junior  high  school  at  the  time. Applicant  was  cited  for  possession  of  marijuana  since  it  was  her  house.  She  was  not handcuffed  or  placed  in  jail;  she  received  a  citation  to  go  to  court.   Applicant  pleaded  no  contest,  received  deferred  adjudication,  and  the  case  was dismissed in November 2014.   Applicant denied guilt but pled no contest so her son would not get in further trouble with the law. She said she had no idea her son was involved  with marijuana. Applicant did not have to attend counseling or treatment. She took and passed a urinalysis test.  Applicant has had no other arrests.  5 Applicant  was  not  involved  in  the  illegal  purchase,  manufacture,  cultivation, trafficking,  production,  transfer,  shipping,  receiving,  handling  or  sale  of  a  drug  or controlled  substance.  Applicant  knew  she  was  subject  to  drug  testing  and  held  a clearance at the time of the citation. She did not report the citation to her employer. As a contractor at a large DOD facility, she claimed that she did not know who to report the issue to. About a week after she appeared in court, she was called in to security at the DOD  facility  where  she  worked;  she  had  been  “flagged”  because  of  the  marijuana citation.  She  told  them  what  had  happened  and  she  was  allowed  to  go  back  to  work.  SOR  ¶  2.a,  alleged  under  Guideline  J  for  criminal  conduct,  mostly  concerns several  traffic  citations  that  Applicant  allegedly  incurred  between  “August  2011  and October 2019.”  They include: 1) expired inspection or failure to have vehicle inspected ; 2) driving without a license or driving on  a  suspended  license  ;  3)  a  commuter parking violation ; 4) violations of the high-occupancy vehicle  lane ; and 5) speeding  in a 65 mph zone . All of these citations are traffic infractions but for driving without a license  or  driving  with  a  suspended  license,  which  are  misdemeanor  offenses.   The most recent citation was issued in October 2017, not October 2019. Applicant admitted the violations. She said she sometimes drove too fast on her motorcycle,  and  most  of  her  traffic  tickets  came  during  that  period.  She  returned  the motorcycle    after  a  close  friend  died  in  a  motorcycle accident.    As  part  of  her  deferred  adjudication  for  the  marijuana  citation, Applicant’s  driver’s  license  was  restricted  . This restriction ran from February 2014 to May 2014.  As to the expired inspections, Applicant stated she knew that at the time she was driving  a  car  that  would  not  pass  inspection.  She  acknowledged  knowing  that  she should  not  have  done  this.    Due  to  her  traffic  tickets,  her  license  was suspended  in  2014  for  a  few  months.    Since  about  August  of  last  year, Applicant leases a used luxury truck. She pays $605 per month. Her driver’s license is current.  Applicant did not disclose her marijuana possession citation or any of her debts on  her  August  2019  SCA.  She  denied  any  intent  to  withhold  information.   SOR ¶ 3.a alleges that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose her 2013 citation for marijuana possession  in answer to  two questions  under Section  22:  Police Record on her August 2019 SCA: Have   any  of   the   following   happened?:  In   the   last  seven     years,  have you   been   issued   a   summons,   citation,   or   ticket  to   appear   in   court  in  a 6 criminal  proceeding   against   you?   [and] Have  you EVER been charged  with  an  offense involving alcohol or drugs? SOR ¶ 3.b alleges that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose her 2013 citation for  marijuana  possession  in  answer  to  two  questions  under  Section  23:  Illegal  Use  of Drugs or Drug Activity on her August 2019 SCA: In  the  last  seven   years, have  you  been  involved  in the  illegal purchase, manufacture,  cultivation, transfer,  shipping, receiving, handling, or sale of any drug  or controlled substance? trafficking,  production, [and] Have   you   EVER  illegally  used   or otherwise  been   illegally involved   with   a drug  or controlled  substance  while possessing  a  security clearance  other than  previously listed? Applicant did not report the 2013 marijuana citation on her 2019  SCA. She had two  opportunities  to  do  so:  1)  in  answer  to  the  first  “seven-year”  question  detailed  in SOR ¶ 3.a ;  and  2)  in  answer  to  the  second  “have  you  EVER”  question detailed  in  SOR  ¶  2.b.   She was not engaged in the sale, distribution, cultivation, etc., of marijuana, as called for in the other question under SOR ¶ 2.b. Applicant asserted that she did not report the offense because it was outside the seven-year scope of the question. ; She also asserted that she did not report  the  offense  because  it  had  been  dismissed.    She acknowledged that the investigator knew about the arrest during her interview.  She also acknowledged that she did not want to lose her job. She now understands that she should have listed the citation, since it was six years before her August 2019 SCA, and was also a drug offense.  Applicant did not  disclose her debts on her SCA. She said she did not  disclose them  because  she  was  paying  on  them  and  therefore  did  not  believe  they  were delinquent.    She  first  acknowledged  that  some  of  her  debts  were  delinquent when  she  filled  out  her  SCA,    but  later  said  she  did  not  believe  they  were delinquent because “they were in the program to be paid.”  Applicant asserted that  the  motorcycle  debt  was  not  delinquent  when  she  prepared  her  SCA  because  it 7 was being paid through the debt relief program, which she said she started in 2019. She acknowledged that the account was past due before then.  In Applicant’s background interview summary, she discusses her debts at length, but not before she was confronted about many of them. She also discussed many of the traffic  infractions  in  SOR  ¶  2.a.  The  marijuana  citation  is  not  discussed,  either  by Applicant or the interviewer.  Applicant provided a reference letter from a co-worker. Applicant is regarded as a hard worker, and she is polite and respectful. She carries herself with “levelheadedness and  grace.”  She  possesses  the  character  and  judgment  of  someone  working  for  the betterment of the community.  