In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f and 1.h. She denied SOR ¶ 1.g. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is a  46-year-old  VTC  engineer.    She has worked  for her sponsor since January 2019.  She served honorably from  1997  through 2001 in the Navy.  She earned a bachelor's degree in 2005.  She divorced in 2000, and she has a 23-year-old daughter who currently resides with her. She  has  three  siblings.    She  previously  held  a  Secret clearance in approximately 2001.  Applicant cites various life events in her Answer, including caring for her mother after her father's passing; her mother’s move into assisted living; the hospitalization of her mother and daughter as well as herself; and the expenses incurred when the “family dog fell ill and passed away.” . Her eight delinquent debts total $30,158. The debts are  established  by  her  SCA,  multiple  credit  reports  and  her  answer  to  interrogatories.  The specific debts in the SOR are as follows: SOR ¶  1.a: past-due account charged-off for $9,178. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.b: past-due account charged-off for $3,709. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.c: past-due account charged-off for $3,667. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.d: past-due account charged-off for $3,385. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her 2 April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.e: past-due account charged-off for $3,254. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.f:  past-due account placed for collection for $3,222. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her  April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.g: past-due account placed for collection for $2,400. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status but show that she disputed the debt.  In her April 8, 2022 interrogatories she acknowledged the debt was not paid; payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  SOR ¶  1.h: past-due account charged-off for $1,343. FORM Items 4 and 5 show no change in the balance of the debt or its status.  In her April  8,  2022  interrogatories  she  acknowledged  the  debt  was  not  paid;  payment arrangements had not been made; and that she was not making payments.  Applicant  addressed  three  other  debts  in  her  response  to  interrogatories.  A charged-off department store credit card in the amount of $343.  She provided  evidence  she  had  paid  off  the  debt.    A  delinquent  medical account placed in collection in the amount of $67. She provided evidence the debt was paid in full.  She provided an October 2018 payment agreement for another account  with  an  existing  balance  of  $2,425,  and  an  agreed  upon  payment  amount  of $1,335, with a monthly payment of $34.  This appears to be the disputed debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g. Applicant  completed  a Personal Financial  Statement  as  part of  her  response  to interrogatories.  It  showed  a  net  remainder  of  $1,690  available  to  her  each  month  for discretionary spending.  She lists her bank savings as $15,000.  Her estimated salary in 2017 was $80,000 before taxes and insurance. Her biweekly March 2022 pay stub showed a net pay of $3,684.  She states she had not been making this salary in years and had other expenses to pay with the extra money.  Applicant in her Answer cites the statute of limitations on the various outstanding delinquencies  and  her  concern  that  any  call  or  contact  would  restart  the  statute  of limitations. She explains that she did not want to risk a court proceeding that could put her government contractor job in jeopardy. She started a higher-paying job in 2019 and 3 states her hope that the new job will allow her to resolve the debts that she incurred in 2017.  Applicant  engaged  a  debt  consolidation  company  and  then  withdrew  from  the agreement over a dispute over costs.  She states it was “probably not the best  idea  to  enter  a  debt  consolidation  program”  and  cites  her  credit  report  and  the accounts she has addressed to show her mitigation efforts and that she has not avoided her financial obligations. She explains that due to the age of the remaining accounts, she figured  she  could  get  a  better  outcome  on  her  own.  She  offers  that  the  expenses associated  with  her  mother  are  now  finished  and  she  can  focus  on  her  situation.  She elected to “push the older debts from 2017 off to the side” and states she has not forgotten them.  Applicant states she does not talk about her financial obligations with anyone and all that her employer and coworkers know of her situation is that she had been taking care of her mother.  She does not want to enter into agreements “with the past companies” without knowing if she would retain her clearance, and does not want to put herself “in jeopardy” over these debts if she loses her job.  