Applicant is 42 years old. He graduated high school in 2000. He married in 2008 and has four children. He has worked for his sponsor since October 2010. He is employed as an associate director of digital design.  In  his  Answer  to  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c,  Applicant  admitted  he  used  marijuana  with varying frequency from about 1999 to February 2022; that he intended to continue using marijuana; and that he purchased marijuana from about 1999 to July 2021. He continued to use after filing his SCA .  In  his  Answer  to  SOR  ¶¶  1.d-1.f,  Applicant  admitted  to  being  charged  and convicted of  possession of a controlled substance, cannabis, in 2001, 2002, and 2003.   In  his  Answer  to  SOR  ¶  1.g,  he  admitted  to  being  charged  and convicted of felony possession with the intent to distribute a controlled substance. He was placed on probation for four years.  Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.h, which alleged that in November 2013 he was charged with  felony delivery of drug paraphernalia. His  FBI  Criminal History Record  reflects he was charged with the offense.  Applicant  explained  in  his  Answer  that  he  “used  marijuana  medically,  self- medicating, for relief of medical symptoms around [his] anxiety and pain.” He states he “tried many pharmaceutical options and they have all had horrible negative side effects.” He explains that “the pattern of disregard for the law comes only as a means of personal survival and not in any way contempt for [his] country or its laws.” He admitted to going to a neighboring state to obtain marijuana despite having a medical marijuana card for his  home  state.    He  expresses  hope  in  his  Answer  that  his  use  will  be accepted based his use of it for medical purposes. As  whole-person  evidence  he  offers  that  he  serves  in  his  community  as  Troop Committee Chair for the Boy Scouts and how he volunteers at community events with a local club when his health permits. “[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 . As Commander in  Chief,  the President has the  authority  to 