Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.o.  He  initially admitted SOR allegation ¶  2.a, and denied  SOR  ¶¶ 2.b. through 1.f.. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the  following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  December  of  2015.  He  has  a  security clearance. Applicant is divorced and has custody of two children.    Applicant  attributes  his  current  financial  difficulties  to  his divorce.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor A, in the amount of about $5,670, as the result of a vehicle repossession.  He has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor B, in the amount of about  $3,714.    He  has  submitted  nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.c.,   1.f~1.j.   and   1.m  Applicant  admits  that  he  has  past-due  medical  debts  to Creditor C, in an amount totaling about $7,058.  He  has  submitted  nothing  further  in  this  regard.  These  allegations  are  found  against Applicant. 1.d.   and   1.e.   Applicant  admits  that  he  has  past-due  debts  to  Creditor  D,  in  an amount totaling about $3,352.  He has submitted nothing further in this regard. These allegations are found against Applicant. 1.k.  Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor K, in the amount of about $453.  He has submitted nothing further in this regard. This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.l. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor L, in the amount of about $219.  He has submitted nothing further in this regard.  This allegation is found against Applicant. 1.n.  and  1.o.    Applicant admits that he has a past-due  debt  to  Creditor  N,  in  the  amount  of  about  $29,000,  as  the  result  of  another 2 vehicle  repossession.  He  is  making  “$100  bi-weekly”  payments  toward  this  debt  as evidenced by documentation attached to his Answer.  These allegations are found for Applicant. Guideline B - Foreign Influence 2.a. Applicant no longer has a Filipina fiancé. As a result, he does not send her any monies.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 2.b. Applicant’s mother is a U.S. citizen, living in the United States.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 2.c.  ~  2.d. All of Applicant siblings were born in either Russia or the Republic of Georgia. They  immigrated to the United  States as  children, with  their parents in 1991. All  are  now  U.S.  citizens,  except  for  the  eldest  brother  who  is  a  dual  national  with Russia. All of Applicant’s siblings, to include his eldest brother, live in the United States. The  eldest  brother  is a  handyman  who  “fixes  trailers  and  sells  them.”   These allegations are found for Applicant. Administrative  Notice As  Applicant no  longer has a  Filipina  fiancé, I only take administrative  notice  of the following facts about Russia:  It is a highly centralized authoritarian political system dominated  by  its  president.  Russia  has  violated  Ukraine’s  sovereignty  and  territorial integrity in 2014 and again in 2022. Russia is a serious threat to our national security. 