Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  married  with  two  children.  He  has  an  associate degree.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  and  seeks  to  obtain  national security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment. This is his first application for national security eligibility.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he therefore  potentially  unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.  Applicant admitted all the allegations under this guideline. financially  overextended  and is The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  seven  debts  that  were  charged-off,  or  in collection,  in  the  total  amount  of  approximately  $54,468.    The existence  and  amount  of  these  debts  is  supported  by  his  admissions  to  all  SOR allegations in his Answer. The debts are also confirmed by credit reports submitted by the Government  dated  August  18,  2020;  March  30,  2021;  and  July  6,  2022.   The existence of the debts is also supported by Applicant’s answers on  Section  26  of  his  e-QIP    and  during  an  interview  with  an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management on August 28, 2020.  Applicant stated that he was unable to pay these debts, most of which date to the 2016/2017-time  frame,  “due  to  unstable  jobs  and  also  being  a  full-time  student  and helping my mother who fell ill in 2019.” Applicant admitted he made a conscious decision to not pay these debts in order to take care of his mother and his family.  2 The current status of the debts is as follows: 1.a.  Applicant admitted owing $22,481 for a motorcycle that he surrendered to the lender shortly before the hearing. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.b.  Applicant admitted owing $14,365 for an automobile loan that was charged off. The vehicle was involved in a one-car accident and was totaled. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.c.   Applicant  admitted  owing  $7,850  for  a  water  purification  system  that  was installed in a house Applicant owns, which is occupied by his in-laws. The in-laws agreed to  pay  for  the  system  but  failed  to  do  so  and  Applicant  is  responsible  for  the  debt. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.d.  Applicant admitted owing $5,474 for an automobile loan that was charged off. This vehicle was also involved in a one-car accident and was totaled. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.e. Applicant admitted owing $2,344 to a furniture company for a charged-off debt. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.f.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  charged-off  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of $1,263. Applicant has not made any  recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. 1.g. Applicant admitted owing a cable company a past-due debt in the amount of $691 for equipment that was not turned in. Applicant has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no current plans to make any payments on this debt.  This debt is not resolved. Applicant testified that his current financial situation is stable. He is able to pay his normal  monthly  expenses.  Applicant  realized  his  finances  can  affect  his  security worthiness but has not yet taken the initiative to determine how he can reduce or pay off his past-due indebtedness.  3 Paragraph 2   The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment,  unreliability, dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  or  regulations.  Applicant  admitted allegations 2.a, 2.d, 2.e, and 2.f under this paragraph. He denied allegations 2.b and 2.c. 2.a.  Applicant  admitted  he  left  Company  A’s  employment  in  May  2019.  He  was working  for  a  temporary  personnel  company    at  that  time,  not  for  Company  A. Applicant stated he had to miss a shift because he did not have a babysitter for his child and had to stay home. The TPC called Applicant and told him his services were no longer required. There is no allegation of misconduct, or evidence that Applicant is ineligible for rehire, in the record.  2.b. Applicant denied that he was fired from Company B in about April 2019 for not being in camera view for 30 minutes at his assigned security guard post. He stated that he was talking to his lead during this period of time. Shortly after talking to his lead he was told to go home. The TPC that he actually worked for called and told him his services were no longer required. There is no allegation of misconduct, or evidence that Applicant is ineligible for rehire, in the record.  2.c. Applicant denied that he was fired from employment with Company C in about July 2018 due to his alleged involvement in an attempted robbery. Applicant’s employer at that time accused Applicant in a written statement to the Office of Personnel Management of participating in an attempted robbery at his place of employment. The employer stated that there was video evidence of Applicant’s conduct on the night in question, but the police “were not able to gather enough evidence to charge [Applicant].”  Applicant denied involvement in any attempted robbery. He did admit not properly locking a door, and that allowed a person to enter the establishment and engage in a fight with Applicant’s employer.  Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  a  person  who  knows  both  Applicant  and  his employer at Company C. She worked with the employer in the past as his accountant. The letter reads in part, “I can state with first-hand knowledge that [employer] has perjured himself in his letter [Government Exhibit 3] to  you  regarding  [Applicant].” After giving  a totally  different  version  of  the  events  in  question  that  closely  matches  Applicant’s testimony she stated, “[Employer] suffers from untreated mental disorders and should not be  utilized  as  a  resource  for a  personal or  professional  reference. His  reference  letter regarding [Applicant] is pure nonsense.”  4 Applicant also submitted an email from a detective of the police department that investigated  the  alleged  crime.  The  detective’s  email  stated,  “In  reviewing  the  robbery investigation  from  July  2018,  [Applicant]  is  a  witness  to  the  crime  and  not  a  suspect.”  2.d.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  charged  in  March  2017  for state  Vehicle  Code violations   including   Driving   on   a   Suspended   or  Revoked   Driver’s  License,  Driving   in Excess of 100  Miles per Hour, and  not complying  with  Child  Safety  Belt Requirements. He entered  a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for the  first two  offenses, was found  guilty,  and sentenced  to 36  months summary probation  and a fine.  Applicant  served two days  in jail in  lieu   of   the   fine.   2.e. Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  in May 2017  for state  Vehicle  Code violations including Driving on a Suspended or Revoked Driver’s License and Driving in Excess of 65  Miles per  Hour. He entered a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for the  first offense, was found  guilty,  and  sentenced  to  36  months summary probation  and  a  fine.  Applicant served  two  days  in jail  in  lieu  of  the  fine.  2.f. Applicant admitted  that he  was charged  in  September 2017  for state  Vehicle Code  violations  including  Driving  on  a  Suspended  or  Revoked  Driver’s  License  and Driving  in Excess of  65  Miles per Hour.  He  entered  a  plea  of Nolo  Contendere  for  the  first offense, was found  guilty,  and  sentenced  to  36  months summary probation  and  a  fine. Applicant served  five  days in jail in lieu  of the  fine.  Applicant  stated  that  after  the  incident  in  allegation  2.f  he  changed  his  driving habits. He testified, “I needed to start being a better person for my kids and stop driving like  a  maniac.” He has completed  all his probation  requirements, has  a current driver’s license, and has had no subsequent incidents.  Mitigation Applicant has progressed  far in the  last  several years. At the  time  of most of these incidents  he  was  working  as a  security guard  or had  other temporary  employment.  He did not have  a  high  school diploma. He received  his GED in 2018  and  immediately began attending  a  local college. He  obtained  an  associate  of  science  degree  in  December 2020 and  is still  attending  school to  obtain  his bachelor’s degree.  Applicant Exhibit B includes a recommendation for Applicant as well as information on allegation 2.c. The letter writer stated, “I have known [Applicant] for over 10 years and 5 I know that  his  work ethic and  determination  would be  an  asset  to  any organization  that employs him. I have  seen  him  go  on  to  seek  a  higher  education  while  providing  for his family with  the utmost  determination.” 