Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant  married  in May  2010  and has  three  children  from  this marriage .  He earned a high school diploma in May 2006. He earned an associates degree in May 2008 and a bachelor’s degree in December 2014.  He reported no military service, and he has never held a security clearance. Since August 2021, Applicant has been employed  by his current employer as a full-time shop mechanic.  Between September 2012 and September 2018,  he  worked  for  a  railroad  as  a  truck  driver  mechanic.  This  job  required  a considerable  amount of  travel, and  he  left this job  by mutual agreement  in September 2018.  Previously, Applicant worked for other employers in various jobs. 2 Applicant’s finances Between   2016   and   2021,  Applicant  accumulated   delinquent   medical  and consumer accounts exceeding  $61,000.  Included  SOR debts are as follows: 1.b  ; 1.c, 1.e-1.f,  and  1.h-1.l ;  1.d  ;  1.g  ;  1.m ;  and  1.n .   Applicant   attributed   these   debts   to   insufficient resources to address  his debts  following his separation  from  his  job in September 2018. Before  he   was  forced   to   leave  his  railroad   job   by  mutual  agreement  in  2018, Applicant  was charged  with  using  his company credit card to  purchase  a  hotel room  for his  wife  and  family.   Having  invited  his wife  and  family to  accompany him  on  a  business trip,  he  booked  a  hotel  upgrade  to  accommodate  his  wife  and  family and  used  his company  travel card to  rent  the  hotel  room  for the  July  4th  weekend.  Once  Applicant’s  company  learned  of  his  using  his  company  travel  card  to accommodate  his  family  while  on  company  travel,  it  opened  an  internal  investigation into the matter.  After confirming the facts of the reported incident, Applicant’s employer  came  to  an  agreement  with  him  in  September  2018  to  separate  from  the company by mutual agreement.  Applicant’s offer to repay the money he used to  obtain an upgrade of his hotel room was declined by his employer.  Without  comparable  income  to  address  his  accrued  debts  following  his unplanned  2018  employment  separation,  Applicant  encountered  difficulties  paying  his debts  and  was  unable  to  prevent  his  defaulting  on  them.  Two  of  the  delinquent  debts involved  deficient  balances  on  vehicles  purchased  in  2020.  Both  of  these  accounts remain unpaid and unresolved.  Other delinquent accounts belonging to Applicant include his DoE student debts .  While  these  delinquent  loans  have  been  in deferment  for  the  past  two  years,  they  were  in  delinquent  status  before  they  were placed  in  deferment.    Records  document  eight  separate  student loans that were placed in collection in October 2020 prior to being placed in deferment status.    After  losing  his  job,  Applicant  became  unable  to  continue  making  his scheduled monthly payments. Applicant’s  remaining  creditors  have  not  been  addressed  with  any  documented payments. SOR creditor 1.d obtained a stipulated judgment against Applicant in August 2022  in  the  amount  of  $6,052.    As  a  part  of  Applicant’s  settlement  agreement with  the  creditor  to  forebear  collection  on  the  judgment,  Applicant  agreed  to  make monthly  payments  of  $52.86,  beginning  in  August  2022.    Agreed  monthly payments  in  compliance  with  his  settlement  agreement  are  not  documented,  and 3 Applicant acknowledges no more than $500 in payments have been paid to date on this account.  Neither  of  his   three   delinquent  accounts  with   SOR   creditors  1.b,  1.g,   and   1.n have  been  addressed,  and  they  remain  unresolved  and  outstanding.    Although  his agreement  with  SOR  creditor  1.m  to  pay  off  the  $118  utility  debt  owed to   this  creditor’s  collection   agent  is  not  documented,   Applicant’s  payment  assurances concerning   this  small  debt   are   credible,  corroborated   in   part  by  its  deletion   from   his most recent credit report,  and  are accepted.   Applicant’s financial situation remains poor.  To date, he has been limited in  his  ability  to  manage  his  debts,  and  he  has  not  had  the  monetary  resources  to address his delinquent accounts.  His current plans consist of saving up enough money to pay off his debts.  Currently,  Applicant  has  a  salary  of  $29.80  an  hour  and  has  about  $100  in remaining  discretionary  funds  after  his  monthly  expenses  are  satisfied.  He  has  never received  financial  counseling  and  has  no  formal  budget.  .  Essentially,  he  lives paycheck to paycheck.  In the meantime, he continues to look for higher paying jobs that will enable him to make meaningful progress with his delinquent accounts. Applicant  cited  a  tentative  offer  made  to  him  in  July  2022  that  if  accepted  and employed  will  pay  him  $260  per  day.    At  this  time,  however,  nothing  has  been finalized between Applicant and this prospective employer.  Endorsements Applicant’s  group  manager  who  has  known  Applicant  for  almost  18  months expressed  surprise  to  hear  about  Applicant’s  financial  situation.  He  credited  Applicant with  being  a  model  employee  since  he  started  with  their  company.    His  group manager  characterized  him  as  a  person  “of  upright  character  and  integrity  in  the workplace.”    This  group  manager  also  credited  him  with  being  an  “upstanding member of the community.”   And, his group manager expressed strong support for Applicant’s willingness to accept responsibility for his actions. Coworkers  and  friends  credit  Applicant  with  being  hardworking,  meticulous, trustworthy,  and  professional.    They  characterize  him  as  a  person  who  can  be counted on, and one who is very eager to help others. 