In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted some of the allegations and denied others. His  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is a 33-year-old former employee of a federal contractor performing the duties of an aircraft servicer. While he is no longer employed by this defense contractor, he has potential employment with a sponsoring contractor contingent upon the successful resolution of his security clearance. He worked at his previous position from May 2019 until  December  2022.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  2008-2013.  He  has  honorably discharged. While serving in the Navy he deployed to Africa. He receives disability income from the Department of Veterans Affairs   . He has taken some college courses. He is single, never married, and he has no children.  The  SOR  alleged  eight  delinquent  accounts    totaling  approximately  $41,927.     The   debts   are   established   by   credit   reports   from   August   2019,  April   2021,  and February   2022;   Applicant’s  personal  subject  interview     with   an   investigator  in September 2019;  and  his SOR admissions.   Applicant attributed his financial problems in his words to being “young and dumb.” He was not financially sophisticated when he joined the Navy and used credit unwisely. As an example, he took out an automobile loan for an ex-girlfriend that he could not afford. He  later  voluntarily  surrendered  the  car  to  the  creditor  after  nonpayment.  Additionally, after he left the Navy, he experienced periods of unemployment and underemployment until approximately 2019 when he was employed by his most recent employer. He hired 2 a debt resolution firm to dispute debts that were over seven years old. Other than that, he has not had any financial counseling.  The status of the SOR debts is as follows: SOR  ¶   1.a-$3,498.   This  is  a  credit-card  debt  to  a  credit  union.  The  debt  was assigned for collection in October 2012. Applicant provided documentation showing that he  entered  an agreement  to  pay  the debt  in March  2022,  but  he admitted  he  failed  to make any payments under the agreement. This debt is unresolved.  SOR ¶  1.b-$24,057.  This is an automobile loan for a repossessed car. The debt was  assigned  for  collection  in  November  2012.  Applicant  provided  documentation showing that he entered an agreement to pay the debt in March 2022, but he admitted he failed to make any payments under the agreement. This debt is unresolved.  SOR ¶  1.c-$676.  This is a delinquent payday loan. Applicant documented paying this debt on April 21, 2022, after the SOR was issued. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.d-$708.  This is a delinquent debt for a rental car. Applicant documented settling this debt on April 21, 2022, after the SOR was issued. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶¶  1.e-1.f-$1,062;  $1,061.  Applicant incurred these two debts to the VA when he  used  his  GI  Bill  educational  benefits  to  take  some  college  classes.  He  failed  to complete the classes and was required to reimburse the VA. He asserted that his federal tax refunds were captured to pay the debt. He provided copies of his 2017-2020 federal tax transcripts showing that amounts were captured to pay non-IRS debts. It is reasonable to conclude that these amounts were captured to pay his outstanding debts to the VA. These debts are resolved.  SOR  ¶   1.g-$1,109.  This  is  a  delinquent  consumer  debt.  Applicant  documented paying this debt on November 7, 2022, after the SOR was issued. This debt is resolved.  SOR  ¶   1.h-$9,754.   This is an automobile loan for a  repossessed car. Applicant secured this loan on behalf of his then-girlfriend. Payments were not made, and the debt was assigned for collection in December 2016. Applicant admitted making no efforts to resolve this debt. This debt is unresolved.  In addition to the SOR debts, Applicant documented paying a non-SOR debt to a utility company.  3 Applicant testified that his income at his last job was approximately $2,000 every two weeks. He is currently unemployed, except for working some part-time jobs. He did not provide any other budgetary information.  