Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a.  He  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.b,  1.c,  and  1.d,  while denying the amounts alleged. He denied SOR ¶¶ 1.e -1.o, questioning the legitimacy of each account. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 42 years old. He has never married and has no children. He has had a clearance previously. He has been a federal contractor since 2012 and has been with his  current  employer  since  March  2018.  He  works  as  an  information  technology   technician. He has an annual salary of about $70,000. During the baseball season, he also  works  a  part-time  job  in  concessions.  This  helps  him  provide  further  aid  to  his family and helps pay his bills.  He lives by himself in a rental apartment.  Applicant  disclosed  some  past-due  debts  on  his  SCA  and  discussed  debts  in further detail in his background interview, in May 2020.  He submitted an Interrogatory response to the CAF in July 2020 about his debts, and disclosed that he was resolving his debts through debt-relief company L. He said that he had settled and resolved  some  debts  and  was  working  on  others.  He  also  disclosed  some  delinquent taxes.  2 This led to a further interrogatory about his taxes, to which he responded in April 2021. He provided federal income tax transcripts from the IRS for tax years 2017-2020 and state tax returns and other documents from tax years 2017 and 2019.  This was how he became aware that his 2018 return was unfiled.  The SOR alleges failure to file federal tax returns and about $25,500 in past-due federal and state income taxes  as well as just over $15,000 in other delinquencies.    The  tax  issues  are  established  by  Applicant’s interrogatory  responses  and  tax  transcripts.    The  other  debts  are  established by  credit  reports  from May  2020  and  September 2021.  He  updated  his SOR response in February 2023.  SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant failed to file his federal income tax returns  as required, for tax years 2018 and 2020. GE 3 and GE 4 reflect that when Applicant submitted his second Interrogatory response, in April 2021, he provided IRS tax  transcripts  from  March  2021,  a  month  earlier.  At  that  time,  his  2018  federal  return was unfiled , and his 2020 federal return was unfiled . Applicant filed his federal tax returns for TY 2018, 2020, and 2021 in June 2022, with the assistance of a tax preparer. For TY 2018, he owed no balance. For TY 2020, he owed $615. For TY 2021, he was due a $390 refund.  He therefore filed his 2018 and 2020 federal tax returns late. He has filed all of his past-due federal returns.  SOR ¶¶ 1.b  and 1.d  concerns past- due  federal  income  tax  debt.    Applicant  is  unsure  how  these  tax  debts  came about.  He  is  not  yet  on  a  repayment  plan  but  intends  to  establish  one.  He  has  yet  to contact  the  IRS  to  start  that  process.  He  believes  he  owes  between  $10,000  and $13,000, but this is undocumented. He believes any refunds from other tax years  would be directed towards those debts.  SOR ¶  1.c   concerns  past-due  state  income  tax  debt.    Applicant  said  he  believed  he  owed  only about $600  at this  point because  his state tax  refunds   had   been  redirected   to   address his  tax   debt.    He provided  tax documentation  regarding  refunds  from  TY  2021    and  TY  2022 ,  both   of  which   reflected   that  they   were   “applied   to   other  tax   years.”    This  suggests  that   his  past-due   state   tax  debt  to   be   resolved   is  more  than   just  the $2,592  owed  for TY 2019, though the amount  remaining  and owed is unclear. The  remaining  SOR  debts  are  all  consumer  accounts  or  utilities.  Applicant partially admitted them in his Answer but was unsure the accounts or the debt amounts were legitimate. He accepted responsibility for all the accounts at his hearing.  SOR ¶  1.e   is an  account  that  has been  charged  off  by a  bank. Applicant said in his answer  that  the  account was in the  process of being  paid. He later clarified 3 that  he  was  working  towards  paying  it,  which  he  intends  to  do.  He  said  each  time  he gets paid, money goes towards his debts.  This debt is as yet unresolved. SOR ¶ 1.f  is an account placed for collection by a bank. The account has been paid.  SOR  ¶  1.g    is  an  account  placed  for  collection.  Applicant  said  he  is scheduled to start paying on it, but it remains pending, since the creditor will not settle the debt.  SOR  ¶  1.h    is  an  account  placed  for  collection.  This  account  has  been paid.  SOR ¶ 1.i  is an auto-financing account that has been charged off by the creditor.  The  car  broke  down.  Applicant  said  he  only  owed  about  $1,000  on  the  car payments. He called the dealer to return the car in about 2017. The dealer called and said the account has been paid off, though Applicant said he did not make payments to do  so.  AE  G,  an  excerpt  from  a  credit  report,  shows  a  zero  balance.  The  debt  is therefore resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.j  is an account that has been charged off. It relates to furniture. Applicant  received  a  settlement  offer  of  $3,650.  He  has  not  made  any  payments,  and the debt remains unpaid, but he intends to resolve it.  SOR ¶ 1.k  is an account placed for collection by a cell phone company. Applicant  contacted  the  phone  company  and  was  referred  to  the  collection  company, who then said the account was closed and referred him back to the creditor. This debt is unresolved, but Applicant plans on addressing it next, after SOR ¶ 1.m.  SOR ¶ 1.l  is an account placed for collection by a utility company for an unpaid  gas  bill  from  Applicant’s  first  apartment,  in  2016.  He  has  not  made  efforts  to resolve it and it is unpaid.  SOR ¶ 1.m  is a medical account that has been placed for collection. This debt is unresolved, but Applicant plans on addressing it next.  SOR ¶ 1.n  is an account placed for collection by a phone company. The debt has been paid.  SOR  ¶  1.o    is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  cable  or  internet provider. Applicant said he paid it, but this is undocumented.  Applicant said his financial problems began in about 2016. He got his first job in IT, earning about $30,000 annually, and moved out of his parents’ home. His father also experienced  a  serious  medical  condition  that  required  expensive  emergency  surgery. Applicant  helped  his  family  with  their  expenses.  He  also  moved  home,  breaking  an 4 apartment lease, for which he had to pay a penalty. He said that debt was paid in about 2020 or 2021. He moved out on his own again after about a year, but he still helps his parents out with their expenses, including their mortgage. He contributes about $300 or $400 a month.  Applicant said he resolved other debts that were not alleged in the SOR. He said he  became  aware  of  many  of  his  debts  during  the  clearance  application  process.   He testified that he is working on improving his credit. He retained credit repair firm L in May 2020 and was paying them a $200 monthly fee. He soon concluded this was a waste of time and money, so he stopped that agreement in 2021. He then took steps to address his debts himself. He feels he is making progress. Tr. 38-41, 57, 96) He  has  not  pursued  formal  credit  counseling.    Applicant  now  drives  a  luxury model used car  that he bought three years ago. The purchase price was $28,000 to $30,000. The monthly payment is $589 and he is current.  Applicant  testified  that  he  is  productive  and  a  hard  worker.  He  is  working  on getting everything resolved and will continue to do so.  Applicant provided several reference letters by people who know him attesting to his  character.  One  of  Applicant’s  uncles  is  a  retired  Air  Force  master  sergeant  and current  government  contractor.  He  has  known  Applicant  for  more  than  35  years. Applicant  is  respectful  and  diligent.  He  is  a  caring  and  helpful  family  member.  He  is goal-oriented and a hard worker.  An aunt is also a retired federal employee. She worked with him at her place of employment for a time in the past. He is a hard worker, good family member, and is knowledgeable, honest, and trustworthy.  A  co-worker  and  friend  attested  to  Applicant’s  trust  and  confidence  in  difficult personal times. Applicant has good moral character, and he deserves a second chance.   A  former  supervisor  noted  that  Applicant  possesses  many  fine  qualities, including  integrity,  punctuality,  and  good  communication  skills.  He  handles  tasks efficiently and is knowledgeable and goal oriented. He is dedicated to his family.  Another  co-worker  attested  to  Applicant’s  work  ethic  and  adherence  to  the  rules  and requirements regarding protection of sensitive and classified information.  