Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  civilian  of  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a  security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant married  in  June  2003  and  has  six  children   from  this  marriage.  Applicant earned  a  bachelors  degree  in December 1997 and a master’s degree  in May 2006.  He enlisted  in the  Marine  Corps  in January 1980   and   served   six   years   in  the   Inactive   Reserve  before  receiving   an   honorable discharge in June  1986.  Since March 2016, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a computer systems technologist.  Between November 2003 and March 2016, he worked for other  employers  in  various  systems  administrator  positions.    He  has  held  a security clearance since April 2004.  2 Applicant’s  security infractions Between  October  2019  and  November  2020,  Applicant  received  multiple  verbal warnings  for  security  infractions,  and  more  recently,  in  March  2021,  a  written  warning for failing to properly  secure a classified hard  drive while in a closed area.   Records  document  that  in  October  2019,  Applicant  self-reported  to  his  information security systems officer  that he downloaded classified information on a compact disc  without authorization in September 2019 and left it unsecured on his desk in his cubicle until October 2019.  Further  investigation  by  his  ISSO  confirmed  that  Applicant  had  downloaded  12 files to a CD without authorization, failed to document the trusted downloads  in e- Binder, and failed to properly label and secure the CD.  His ISSO administrators  found no loss or compromise of classified information and advised him of the need to properly download  classified  information  in  the  future  to  ensure  his  understanding  of  proper downloading procedures.  In  April  2020,  Applicant    received  a security  infraction  notification  with  a  verbal  warning  for  allowing  access  and  use  of unauthorized  software    on  a  classified  information  system  without  following required  cybersecurity  procedures.    Applicant  denied  parts  of  the  substantive allegation,  claiming  the  software  had  been  approved  by  his  ISSO  administrator. However, he admitted that his further testing of the software was unauthorized.  In their  own investigation  of the  April  2020 ISSO administrators confirmed that  another employee of the company was in the process of getting the Skype for business software certified for use on the  company’s information system    when  the  employee  discovered  that  Applicant  had  been  allowing employees  to  use  the  program  before  the  full  certification  could  be  finalized.   While  no  loss  or  compromise  of  classified  information  was  detected,  Applicant  was issued a verbal warning.  incident,  Applicant’s In May 2020, while still employed by his current employer, Applicant committed a company  policy  infraction  when  he  inadvertently  brought  a  cell  phone  into  a  closed area.  Employer records affirm that Applicant self-reported the incident, and  his  employer’s  ISSO  administrators  confirmed  the  absence  of  any  compromise  of classified information. Upon concluding their investigation, his ISSO administrators verbally warned him of his violation without the issuance of a security infraction. ISSO administrators, in turn, referred  their  findings  to  Applicant’s  supervisor  for  any  further  consideration  of  the incident.  Company records confirmed that Applicant received a company policy infraction  with  corrective  actions  deferred  to  management  for  inadvertently  bringing  a cell phone into a closed area, in violation of established procedures.  3 Applicant’s  employment  records   document   that   in  November   2020,   he   self- reported  his failure to  secure a  classified  hard  drive  while in a  closed  area.   Admitting  the  infraction, Applicant told  his company’s ISSO administrator that he  had found   the   classified   hard  drive   in  his   desk  drawer,   but   could   not   recall   how   the   drive arrived  in his cubical.   He  told  the  ISSO administrator  investigating  the  incident that   he   last   used   similar  drives  in   2016   upon   his   new   arrival  to   the   company.    ISSO   administrators, in   turn  took   possession   of  the   hard   drive   and   found  no   nefarious activities or anomalies  in their audit.  ISSO administrators based their findings on the absence of any exhibited activity with the hard drive since 2016.  Although, Applicant’s actions were confirmed to be inadvertent, he was considered to be responsible for violating established safeguard procedures  for  storing  materials  bearing  secret  labels  , and was issued a verbal warning. Applicant’s claims that  there  was  no  formal  process  to  inventory  their  cubes  when  he  first  entered  his employment  with  his  employer  were  neither  acknowledged  nor  accepted  by  ISSO administrators.  More recently , Applicant received a written warning for failing to properly secure a classified hard drive while in a closed area.  Claiming he  inherited  the  hard-drive  from  a  person  who  occupied  the  cubicle  before  him,  he acknowledged  the  incident  and  claimed  he  was  told  to  accept  the  hard  drive  “as-is” when he assumed possession of the hard-drive as a new employee.  Applicant’s employer’s records reflect that Applicant acquired his hard drive in 2018, and the drive was  found  when  an  employee  of  the  company  was  moving  into  Applicant’s  cubical.   When  asked  by  ISSO  administrators  about  the  hard  drive,  Applicant acknowledged his acquiring the drive when he joined the company in 2018 . ISSO  administrators  in their investigation  of  the  2021  incident  found  Applicant’s acquired hard drive to bear a classified label ,  and,  as  such,  was  a  classified  hard  drive  that  was  improperly stored  by  Applicant  for  approximately  two  years  without  any  evidence  of  a  suspected loss  or  compromise  of  classified  information.    Based  on  the  investigation’s findings, Applicant received a written warning. Since the investigated March 2021 incident, Applicant has been transferred to a new  position  where  he  is  no  longer  responsible  for  classified  assets.    He assured in his personal subject interview , conducted in February 2022, that should he be assigned to another position in the chain of assets, he will be sure to check the inventory and ensure that all items are properly labeled.  In  his  defense,  Applicant  expressed  his  belief  that  he  had  proved  his trustworthiness  through  his  work  as  a  system  administrator  entrusted  with  the responsibility  for  handling  “thousands  of  classified  hard  drives/tapes,  performed hundreds software installations, and ensured the classified information systems that he was responsible for were compliant with DoD requirements for over 5 years.”  4 