Applicant  is  29  years  old  and  recently  married  with  one  child.  He  has  a  high school  diploma.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  mariner  and  seeks  to retain  national  security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his employment.   Paragraph 1  The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR specifically alleged that Applicant has three debts that were charged off, or in collection, in the total amount of approximately $60,919.  He admitted SOR allegation 1.c with an explanation. He denied allegations 1.a and 1.b, stating that he had paid those debts in 2015. The  existence  and  amount  of  the  debt  in  SOR  allegation  1.c  is  supported  by Applicant’s  admission  in  his  Answer.  All  three  debts  are  confirmed  by  credit  reports submitted  by  the  Government  dated  December  20,  2019;  April  17,  2020;  August  6, 2021;  and  June  24,  2022.    The  existence  of  the debts is also supported by his answers on Section 26 of his e-QIP   and  during  an  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management on June 29, 2020.  Applicant stated that his financial difficulties were due to his being a mariner. He works full time, but only periodically. He only earns money when he is at sea, which can be for up to three to four months at a time. He does not have an income when he is on 2 shore for up to three or four months between ships.  The current status of the debts is as follows: 1.a. Applicant denied owing Credit Union A $13,519 for account  One. That debt was charged off. 1.b. Applicant denied owing Credit Union A $25,207 for account Two. That debt was charged off. The above debts will be discussed together for convenience. Applicant admitted the existence of both of these debts but maintained that he had paid them in 2015. In support  of  that  statement  he  provided  loan  documents  from  Credit  Union  B  as  the Attachment to his Answer. The Attachment shows that his aunt cosigned a $50,000 loan with him from Credit Union B in May 2015. Applicant Exhibit A consists of two checks dated May 30, 2015, drawn on Credit Union  B  and  made  payable  to  two  different  accounts  with  Credit  Union  A.  Applicant stated that he had asked Credit Union A for a pay-off figure on the two subject accounts in the SOR. After he received the figures, he had Credit Union B make out the checks. The checks were actually made payable to two other accounts Applicant had with Credit Union  A  at  the  same  time.  A  check  for  $18,815.85  was  made  out  for  Credit  Union  A, account  Three.  A  second  check  for  $24,464.43  was  made  out  for  Credit  Union  A, account  Four.  The  credit  reports show that accounts  Three  and  Four  have  been  paid. The  same  reports  show  that  accounts  One  and  Two  remain  unpaid  and  charged  off.  Upon  reviewing the  hearing  Applicant the  Government’s  exhibits  before discovered the apparent mistake and went to discuss the situation with Credit Union A shortly before the hearing. According to him, a teller at Credit Union A showed him that the debts alleged in the SOR were actually two additional unpaid debts that he owed at the same time in 2015-16. This was confusing to him, and he informed the teller that he was still unsure of which accounts were his and that Credit Union A appeared to have additional  money  of  his  that  was  unaccounted  for.  The  teller  informed  him  that  she would  look  into  the  situation  and  get  back  to  him.  As  stated,  he  was  given  additional time  to  provide  evidence  as  to  his  financial  situation,  including  any  information  from Credit  Union  A,  and  no  additional  information  was  provided.  Based  on  the  available evidence, I find he has not paid or otherwise resolved either of these two debts.  1.c. Applicant admitted owing $22,193 for an account that has been charged off. The  credit  reports  in  the  record  show  that  this  account  was  opened  in  2016  and  he stopped paying on the debt in 2017. This account was transferred or sold, and the new 3 owner  sued  Applicant  in  2019.  A  default  judgment  was  entered  against  him  in  August 2021.  He  stated  that  the  court  and/or  the  creditor  was  trying  to  work  with  him  on  a payment arrangement during the COVID 19 pandemic. He was not able to provide any additional  information  showing  that  this  debt  had  been  paid  or  otherwise  resolved.  Applicant  testified  that  his  current  financial  situation  is  stable.  He  realizes  his finances  can  affect  his  security  worthiness  but  has  not  yet  taken  the  initiative  to determine how he can reduce or pay off his past-due indebtedness.  