Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.j and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.h, 1.j, 1.k, and 1.l, all with brief comments about their current status.  His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 36 years old. He has never married. He has a 12-year-old son. He has a high school diploma and some college credits. He has been employed in the defense industry,  with  a  clearance,  since  2010.  He  has  been  in  the  same  position  but  began working  under a new contract in  December 2022.  He earns  an annual salary of  about $100,000.  Applicant disclosed child support debt and an auto repossession on his SCA, and he discussed those and other debts in his background interviews.  The debts are listed on CBRs from August 2020, September 2020, April 2021, and May 2022.  The Guideline F allegations in the SOR total about $69,546. The current status of his SOR debts is as follows: SOR  ¶¶  1.a    and  1.c    are  the  same  debt.  SOR  ¶  1.a  is  a judgment  issued  against  Applicant  in  March  2021  by  the  creditor  for  SOR  ¶  1.c.  The judgment includes attorney’s fees and interest.  Applicant admitted the debt in his Answer and said he was paying it. This debt relates to an auto loan that Applicant cosigned for Ms. R, the mother of his son. He believes she is responsible, so he is not making payments. They bought the car together several years ago. He began paying on the debt in 2021 for about a year and a half at about $350 a month. He then gave the lender Ms. R’s name for them to get payments from her. He said he now pays $120 per month but also said he is no longer making payments. The car was badly damaged in a fire.  2 A February 2023 credit report lists this account as having been charged off, with a balance due, probably after resale of the car, of $8,161.  The balance may also have  been  reduced  by  a  garnishment  from  Applicant’s  pay,  generally  for  about  $330, reflected in his biweekly paystubs since about March 2022.  SOR ¶ 1.b  is an account placed for collection by a financial institution or lender. Applicant denied the debt and said it was no longer on his credit report.  He explained that this was a second car for which he co-signed with his girlfriend, but he could not recall which car this debt related to.  He provided no documents about this debt. SOR ¶ 1.d  is a debt placed for collection.  Applicant denied the debt and said it was no longer on his credit report. At his hearing, he asserted it was paid. It is a loan from many years ago.  He provided no documents about this debt. SOR ¶ 1.e  is a bill placed for collection by a cable or internet company.  Applicant denied the debt, said it has been charged off, and is being disputed by the debt relief company he retained in November 2021, as further discussed below. At his hearing, he asserted that the debt had been paid. The bill resulted from a dispute over equipment he said he had returned several years ago, and he does not believe he owes anything.  He provided no documents about this debt. SOR ¶  1.f    is an  account placed  for collection  by a  power company.  Applicant denied  the  debt and  said it was no  longer on  his credit report. It is an  unpaid or  disputed   power   bill  from   a   prior  residence.  He   says   it   has   been   paid.      He provided no documents about this debt. SOR ¶ 1.g  is an account that has been charged off by a financial services company.  This is a leasing  or purchasing agreement for a TV set.  Applicant said the debt has been paid. This is supported by a 2020 credit report.  SOR ¶ 1.h  is a charged-off auto debt.  Applicant denied the debt and said it is being disputed by the debt relief company. He then acknowledged sole responsibility for the car. He is no longer in possession of it.  The debt is listed on a February 2023 credit report in charged-off status, with a balance of $12,296.  SOR  ¶   1.i    alleges  past-due   child   support.    Applicant  admits  the debt and  says he  is paying. He pays $860  per  month  in child  support for his child  with  Ms. R, and  has done  so  for about four years. He  has joint  custody of  his son. He  wants to restructure  the   child   support  requirement.   He  is  unsure  why  there  is,  or  was,   a delinquency  in the  payments.   Applicant provided  pay  stubs  from  2020  to- 2022,  which  show regular bi-weekly child  support payments  for about $341.53  taken  out of his  pay.  This would  total about $683  a  month, not  $860.  But his child  support requirement is being paid and resolved. 3 SOR ¶  1.j   is  an  account placed  for collection  by  an  apartment  complex.   Applicant denied the debt and said it was no longer on his credit report. He said it is a security deposit  that  has been  paid. He  acknowledged  there  was “a  hole  in the  wall and stuff  like  that” when  he  left,  so  they kept the  security deposit.   He provided  no documents about this debt. SOR ¶ 1.k  is a debt to an unidentified medical creditor, an account that has been placed for collection.  Applicant denied the debt and said it was no longer on his credit report. This was from an ER visit from about three years ago when he did not provide his insurance card. He said it was paid by insurance.  The debt is listed on a February 2023 credit report in collection status, with a balance of $570.  SOR ¶ 1.l  is an account that has been charged off by a large department store.  Applicant denied the debt and said it was no longer on his credit report. He took out an account and had a small bill, which he said he paid. He could not explain the origin of the $393 debt and does not recall if it has been paid or resolved.   He provided no documents about this debt. Applicant first contacted  debt relief company W  in 2018  to  assist in fixing  his credit but did not formally retain them  until November 2021. He was paying  them  $300  a  month but is  no  longer paying  them.  He  asserted  that they  had  removed all of the  SOR debts from  his credit report but  for SOR ¶  1.b  and  the  child  support debt at SOR ¶  1.i,  both  of which  he  was paying. He was unable to  provide  the  basis for which  the other  debts  had  been  removed  from  his CBR.  He noted  that  many  of  the  debts are several years old  and  he  took steps to have  them  removed  from his credit  report.   AE  B  does not show that company W  took any steps to  challenge  or resolve any particular debt, alleged or otherwise. AE D concerns the payments for Applicant’s current car, a 2020 domestic sedan. He said he bought the car in 2020 for $15,000. He is current on his payments.  The account is also listed on a February 2023 CBR. According to both AE C and AE D, he is current on his monthly payments  but owes about $24,200. Applicant receives about $2,600 biweekly after taxes. Expenses listed are about the  same.    He  acknowledged  that  he  owes  $2,000  to  $3,000  in  past-due income taxes from 2012 to 2014 because of a tax preparer’s error. He is resolving this through  a  tax  relief  service.  He  has  no  unfiled  tax  returns.    The  debt  relief service offered him some credit counseling about minding his spending and being more aware of his credit.  Applicant  testified  that  his  financial  problems  were  due  to  immaturity,  financial inexperience, and being overly generous. His son’s mother was also not working at the time, and he had to assume financial responsibility for her and their son. His mother also passed away in 2018, which caused hardship.  He said he has learned the error of his ways and will work to improve in the future.  A February 2023 credit report shows a credit score of 563, and a “poor” credit rating.  4 