Applicant is a 43-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant  married  in  December  2003  and  has  three  children  from  this  marriage .   Since  June  2015,  Applicant  has  worked  for his  current  employer as  a  business process expert.  Between 2011 and 2020, he held steady technician jobs with other employers.  He has held a security clearance since October 2015.  Applicant’s finances Applicant  financed  his  college  education  with  the  aid  of  federally-guaranteed student loans he obtained from the U.S. Department of Education .  He could  not  recollect  ever making  any  payments  on his student  loans,  and  they  became delinquent in 2009 and 2011.  Applicant could not supply any dates as to when the loans first became delinquent between 2009 and 2011.  After the loans became delinquent, Applicant’s wages were garnished by the U.S. DoE in 2010 and 2011.  Upon consolidating his student loans in August 2014, he 2 made no student loan payments and has not received anything from the DoE in a long time.    To  the  best  of  his  recollection,  he  has  not  made  any  student  loan payments  since  he  graduated  from  college  in  May  2010  and  owes  approximately $83,000  in  aggregate  student  loan  debt.    Currently,  his  student loans are in the Government’s forgiveness program, during which time enforcement of collections is suspended.  While Applicant’s DoE-guaranteed student loans are currently  deferred,  he  has  done  nothing  to  rehabilitate  his  loans,  either  before  or  after his  loans  were  placed  in  deferred  status.    While  income-based  repayment plans  with  DOE  were always  an  option  for him  to  pursue  with  the  DoE,  he  apparently never  explored  any  payment  options  that  could  potentially  accommodate  his  limited resources following his college graduation. Assessing Applicant’s delinquent medical and consumer accounts, he has made no documented progress in addressing any of these accounts.  He attributed his failures to address his debts to treating them mostly “as out of sight, out of mind.”  In the past, he has generally relied on his wife to handle his finances and failed to properly monitor his accounts.  Applicant  grosses  $86,000  annually  in  his new  position  and  shares  his  monthly expenses with his wife who earns around $75,000 a year in her new job.  His monthly expenses include his mortgage, food, utilities, his wife’s car loan, and monthly tithing  to  his  church.    Currently,  Applicant  and  his  wife  are  running  a  monthly deficit of $4,000.  They hold around $4,500 in cash assets and a little more than $10,000 in interest savings.  