Consistent with his January 23, 2020 SCA, Applicant admitted all allegations. His admissions in his Answer are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful  review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional findings of fact. Applicant is 46 years old. He is married to his third spouse and has two children and three adult stepchildren. He has worked for his sponsor since 2007 as an inspector. He earned an associate’s degree in 2007. He has never held a security clearance.  Guideline I  –  Psychological Conditions SOR ¶  1.a:  On  July  29,  2022,  at  the  request of  the  DoD,  Applicant underwent  a psychological  evaluation.  The   DoD  psychologist  concurred   with   the   diagnosis  of  his treating  physicians that  he  had  major depressive  disorder, recurrent, mild, and  an  alcohol use  disorder.   SOR  ¶   1.e:   Applicant’s  history   of   suicidality   goes   back   to   1993,   when   he His most recent intentionally overdosed  on  Tylenol with  codeine.   SOR ¶  1.c: suicide  attempt  occurred  in the  summer of 2018, after a domestic disturbance, when  he intentionally overdosed  on  a  prescription  muscle relaxer,  Baclofen.    As a  result of the  overdose, he  was  placed  in a  medically induced  coma. SOR ¶ 1.b:  After  the   2018   suicide   attempt,   he   underwent  psychiatric  treatment  and   was diagnosed  with  major depression, recurrent,  severe, without psychosis, and  alcohol use disorder,   severe.     SOR  ¶   1.f:  During   treatment   after  his   2018   suicide attempt,  he   reported   five   suicide   attempts  since   the   age   of  16.      He acknowledged   to   the  DoD  psychologist  to  planning   and  attempting   suicide   three   times since  age  16.  SOR ¶  1.d:  In a domestic disturbance in 2005 he placed a revolver to his head before ultimately discharging the weapon into the ceiling.  Applicant  first  sought  treatment  for  depression  in  the  early  2000s,  after  his  first divorce.  He  was  prescribed  a  series  of  medications,  which  in  short  term  use  proved ineffective at reducing his symptoms.  He discontinued treatment within a 2 few months and did not resume treatment until 2012. He stopped the 2012 treatment after two weeks.  After his 2018 suicide attempt, he was prescribed Zoloft. The medication has been effective in moderating his depression, and he continues taking it. Zoloft is his primary means for treating his mental health issues.  However, the DoD psychologist noted continued alcohol consumption negates the effectiveness of the medications for his depression.  Applicant reports his use of medication at approximately “one time a week” and described its use to address stress management, procrastination, and to change his attitude.  Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption SOR ¶¶  2.a  and 2.c: Applicant, even after the events alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d, admits in his Answer, and contrary to medical advice, his continued alcohol use.  He notes in his Answer his doctor is aware of his continued alcohol use.  In his 2020 security clearance interview he told the investigator as of July 2018 he no longer used  alcohol.    During  his  July 2022  psychological  evaluation,  he  told  the DoD  psychologist  he  consumed  “alcohol  approximately  four  times  weekly,  drinking between two and five alcoholic beverages each setting, and only drinking more than six alcoholic drinks approximately monthly.”  SOR ¶¶ 2.d-2.f allege alcohol-related arrests. Applicant admits to each incident: the  2015  incident  resulted  in  him  being  charged  with  fourth-degree  assault;  the  2009 incident  resulted  in  an  arrest  for  fourth-degree  assault  and  second-degree  disorderly conduct; and the 2004 DUI arrest.  SOR ¶ 2.b states Applicant has experienced adverse personal, professional, and financial consequences because of alcohol consumption since at least 2003. In addition to the three alcohol-related arrests discussed in SOR ¶¶  2.d-2.f, the record shows several other  professional  and  personal  consequences.  He  attributes alcohol  consumption  to missing  work  due  to  being  hungover;  his  two  suicide  attempts  in  2005  and  2018;  his second divorce; and his financial problems, including a  2014 foreclosure.  