In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all but one of the SOR debts alleged under  Guideline  F  ,  all  with  the  same  explanation.  He  denied  the remaining  debt    and  denied  the  falsification  allegation  under  Guideline  E . His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 56 years old. He is employed as a security officer. According to his SCA, he has worked for the employer sponsoring him for a clearance since June 2022. He also reported working as a security officer for another employer since June 2018. He previously worked for another employer in a similar job from February 2019 to June 2022. Before that, he was unemployed from 2011 to 2018 and then worked part-time from May 2017 to February 2019. He served in the Marine Corps from 1986 to 1990 on active duty and then from 1990 to 1999 he served in the Marine Corps Reserve. He was discharged honorably. He married in 1996, and he and his wife separated in July 2018. They remain separated. He and his wife have two adult children in their 20s.  The record includes credit bureau reports , from July 2022 and March 2023 , which establish the delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR. The SOR debts total $60,334 in past-due debts, either charged off or reported for collection. All but one of them appear to be consumer credit accounts. Applicant asserts in his SOR Answer that all of the charges were made by his spouse during a time when he was not working. He said she was paying on the debts until they separated. He said he  was  not  aware  of  them  until  he  spoke  to  the  investigator  . Applicant provided no indication that any debts have been, or are being, paid, or that he has taken any steps to resolve or dispute them. All  of the  debts  are  listed  on  Applicant’s July 2022  credit  report  and  most of them  are listed  on  his March 2023  credit report as well.   All  of the  accounts 2 listed   in  the   SOR  are   listed   as  “Indiv   Acc”    on   his  July  2022   credit report. The debts are detailed  as follows: SOR ¶ 1.a  is a credit account that has been charged off by a department store. SOR ¶ 1.b  is an account that has been charged off by a bank. SOR ¶ 1.c  is an account placed for collection by a bank. SOR ¶ 1.d  is an account that has been charged off by a bank. SOR ¶¶ 1.e , 1.f  and 1.g  are accounts placed with the same  collection  agency  by  three  separate  banks.  SOR  ¶  1.h    is  an  account placed  for  collection  by  a  bank.  It  has  the  same  account  number  and  the  same  bank creditor as the debt at SOR ¶ 1.g, so I conclude it is the same debt. SOR ¶ 1.i  is an account placed for collection by a bank. SOR ¶ 1.j  is a credit account placed for collection by a department store. SOR ¶ 1.k  is an account placed for collection by a credit card company. SOR ¶ 1.l  is an account placed for collection by a bank. SOR ¶ 1.m , which Applicant denies without further explanation, is a cable account placed for collection. Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts on his SCA. . In his  September  2022  background  interview,  he  confirmed  his  negative  answers  to  all financial related questions on his SCA and did not acknowledge any delinquencies. He was then confronted with evidence of his debts. He then said they were all credit cards or store credit card accounts that his wife opened. He said she would pay the accounts until they separated but then stopped making the payments out of spite. He thinks she opened more accounts after they separated. He asserted that he gets no information from creditors, such as bills or notices. He said he did not list them on his SCA because he did not  have  information  about  them  at  the  time.  He  said  he  planned  to  address  these accounts  appropriately during  divorce proceedings  with  his divorce attorney.  He  never used these cards but the balances are probably right.  Applicant did not provide any documents with his answer to the SOR. There is no indication that he has made any effort to pay or resolve any of his SOR debts.  He has not indicated that he has participated in credit counseling or follows a budget. 