Applicant  admitted  some  of  the SOR  allegations,  with  explanations,  and  denied other allegations. His admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a thorough and careful  review of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional findings of fact. Applicant is 31 years old. He is currently unemployed, but he is being sponsored for a security clearance by a federal contractor. He served in the U.S. Air Force from 2013 to 2019, when he was discharged with a general discharge, under honorable conditions. He holds an associate degree and is taking additional courses. He is divorced and has no children. He held a clearance while in the Air Force until it was suspended in December 2018.  Under Guideline I, the SOR alleged:  Applicant received psychiatric treatment for  depression  and  anxiety  in  November  2018.  He  expressed  suicidal  ideations  while hospitalized;  Applicant received treatment at a military medical clinic from December 7, 2018, to about April 22, 2019, after expressing suicidal ideations. He was diagnosed with conditions identified as adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood and  an  unspecified  personality  disorder.  He  was  given  a  poor  prognosis.  He  was evaluated  by  a  licensed  psychologist  in  December  2021,  who  affirmed  the  earlier diagnoses  of  mood  disorder  and  adjustment  disorder,  and  also  characterized  his prognosis as poor.  Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged:  Applicant received nonjudicial punishment under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  ,  Article  15,  in  February  2019  for wrongful  use  of  testosterone;    Applicant  received  nonjudicial  punishment  under  the UCMJ, Article 15, in April 2019 for wrongful use of letrozole;  Applicant was charged with  engaging  in  abusive  sexual  contact  under  UCMJ  Article  120;  and    Applicant received a general discharge from the Air Force in May 2019.  Under Guideline H, the SOR cross-alleged the two drug abuse allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.b. 2 Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.d. The SOR also alleged that Applicant deliberately gave false information on his August 2019 security clearance application  when he failed to disclose:  his hospitalization in November 2018;  his illegal drug use in SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.b above;  his illegal drug use, while  possessing  a  security  clearance;  and    that  he  had  his  security  clearance suspended in December 2018.  Phycological Conditions  . Applicant  was interviewed  by a background  investigator in August 2019.  During that interview, he admitted that he sought treatment for anxiety and depression and was hospitalized at a military facility in November 2018. He sought this treatment after he had moved out from living with his girlfriend in October 2018. He remained hospitalized for approximately  36  hours.  Applicant  admitted  this  hospitalization  during  his  hearing testimony. There are no medical records that document this hospitalization. There is also no evidence supporting Applicant’s suicidal ideations at this point in time. , GE 4 ) Applicant  voluntarily sought outpatient  counseling at an Air Force mental health clinic from approximately December 2018 to  May 2019. The treatment stopped when he was  discharged  from  the  Air  Force  in  May  2019.  His  medical  care  during  this  time  is documented by the 120 pages of records contained in GE 4. Applicant’s primary mental health provider during his sessions was Dr. C, a licensed clinical psychologist. Applicant had one session with Dr. K, a psychiatrist. ) Dr.  C’s  initial  diagnoses  for  Applicant  in  December  2018  were:    adjustment disorder with mixed anxiety and depressed mood , and  unspecified disorder of adult personality and behavior . During the course of the next several months, Dr. C continued to see Applicant in the clinical setting and documented the following observations: Applicant’s  first  session   on   December  7,   2018:  He  was   hostile   and uncooperative  with  treatment.  He made  little eye  contact, which  challenges his  credibility.   A   personality  disorder   is  suspect  of  interfering   with   his accessibility to  treatment. He is scheduled for psychological testing. Applicant’s  session   on   December  14,  2018:  He  was  uncooperative   with treatment and  would rather talk about himself,  he  related  he  felt victimized by a  woman  who raised a sexual assault allegation against him . He seems unwilling  to  engage  in  any authentic therapeutic interventions; Applicant’s session on  December 17, 2018: He may be  opening up but it is hard for him to let go of blaming  his girlfriend; 3 Applicant’s  session   on   December  27,  2018:  He   is  forming   tenuous therapeutic  alliance  after each  session  after he  initially enters  with  a  hostile, irritable  attitude.  Once   he   opens  up   he   impresses  as  more  credible   and empathy  for him  comes easier. He  is  beginning  to  talk   more authentically about  his  conflicts   and   feelings   of  aloneness.  He   has   not   had   suicidal ideations for at least a  month. Applicant’s  session   on   January  4,  2019:   He  did   not   enter   session   with hostility.  He talked  a  lot  about himself. He opened  up  about growing  up  with guns and  they are a  part of his culture. He  expressed  that  no  one  ever being there   for   him  and   this statement  might   offer an  opening   into   his personal life. Applicant’s  session   on   January  11,  2019:   He   presents  for  the   supportive aspects  of  treatment  and   tends  to   become   argumentative   when   he   is challenged.  He seems to  be  disinterested  in  real change  that can  come  from psychotherapy.  However,  his  symptoms   have   reduced   dramatically  since he   has  presented   himself  as  a   victim   regarding   the   sexual  contact allegations.  He is  unauthentic and  he  is not  aware  that he  is presenting  that way; Applicant’s  session   on   January   14,  2019:   He  wants   to   come   off   his medications  because  he  feels he  is underweight.  He  is  more focused  on  his appearance  than  on  his current emotions.  He  is opening  up  to  some  degree in therapy and  is gaining  some  minimal insight into  how his own behavior has affected  his current  situation.   He  is   very   focused   on  the   women   who have  wronged  him.  He wishes to  continue  treatment,  despite  his resistance to it; Applicant’s  session   on   February  22,   2019:   He  panicked   over  his  sexual assault  charges,  so   his  reading   of   one   [Dr.  C’s]  notes   in  which   he   was deemed  not credible  has weighted  meaning  at this time. He stated  that if he lost  his sexual assault case  he  would kill himself. He also called  his mother and told her the same  thing. He is contradictory in his reports of confirming at the  same  time  denying  his suicidality.  ; Applicant’s session  on  March 15,  2019: He  is  completely disengaged  from treatment, is argumentative, and cannot be  pleased. Applicant’s session  on   April 22, 2019: He attended  therapy  today despite his complaint  that his treatment  is lacking.  He  seemed  lost  and  spoke  as if treatment was his last  resort. He presented well-groomed and confident as usual but he  seems confounded  about why he  is alone  and  what needs to 4 be  done  to  remedy his feelings of loneliness. He is distressed  about  leaving the  Air  Force  which  is indicative of considerable ambivalence  on  his part as he  also  complains  about   the   Air   Force  bitterly.  He  has  been   off   his medications  for two  months. This was  the  last session  Applicant  attended before his discharge from  the  Air Force. ) Dr. C’s final diagnosis was that Applicant presented with adjustment disorder with depressed mood and anxiety. She summarized his overall progress during his sessions as follows: “Patient  did  not improve  in  treatment and  was only checking  in  because  he refused treatment but he was on the HIL  and was required to check in.” He did not have suicidal ideations at the beginning or the end of his sessions. She also stated his prognosis is poor and that Applicant was unreliable and dishonest during the course of treatment.  In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer,  he  denied  that he  expressed  any  suicidal ideations while  treated  at  the  Air  Force  mental  health  clinic  between  December  2018  and  April 2019. He also explained that he believed the prescription medication he was taking was causing  “negative  feedback.”  In  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant  admitted  he  had  a difficult  relationship  with  Dr.  C.  He  believes  she  took  things  out  of  context.  He  also disagreed with the medications she prescribed for him. He denied  telling Dr. C that he would kill himself if he lost his sexual assault case. He denied telling Dr. C that he called his mother and told her the same thing. He denied writing a suicide note that his First Sergeant  disclosed.  I  do  not  find  Applicant’s  denials  credible  when viewed against  the conflicting record evidence.  In December 2021, Applicant consented to a psychological evaluation arranged by the DOD. Dr. M, a board certified, licensed clinical psychologist, approved by the DOD, was retained to conduct the evaluation on December 4 and December 21, 2021. Dr. M conducted clinical interviews of Applicant, reviewed the medical records contained in GE 4,  reviewed  Applicant’s  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs    medical  records,  and conducted  psychological  testing,  including  The  Million  Clinical  Multiaxial  Inventory  4th edition    and  the  Minnesota  Multiphasic  Personality  Inventory  3rd  edition .  Applicant’s MCMI-IV test produced a profile of a response style in need of social approval  with  a  tendency  to  present  himself  in  a  favorable  light.  The  testing  results showed  significant elevations  on  scales  related  to  histrionic,  turbulent,  and  narcissistic personality patterns. The test showed that he also expressed general anxiety. The test indicated  evidence  of  a  moderate  degree  of  emotional  lability  in  his  personality,  and although  he  is  typically  able  to  function  adequately,  periods  of  marked  emotional, cognitive, and behavior dysfunction are likely.  Applicant’s MMPI-3 test showed that the test’s validity scale raised concerns about possible underreporting by him. However, the test was deemed valid. He presented as well-adjusted, despite evidence to the contrary. The test revealed he likely engages in compulsive behavior and displays a rigid, perfectionistic demeanor. The test showed no 5 evidence of disordered thinking or maladaptive behavior, but because of the possibility of his underreporting, such behavior could not  be ruled out.  Based upon her overall evaluation, Dr. M concluded, “[Applicant] has a consistent history of Mood Disorder and Adjustment Disorder, and although he does not currently endorse any mental health symptoms, it is likely that he is minimizing due to the nature of this evaluation.” Dr. M gave  the following prognosis: “[Applicant’s] prognosis is poor. He lacks insight into his mental health condition, and he is unable to admit even minor flaws.” Additionally, she stated that the inconsistencies between Applicant’s self-report of his  mental  health  history  and  his  current  condition  contrasted  to  the  documented treatment history call into question his judgment, reliability, stability, and trustworthiness.  In  his SOR answer, Applicant indicated  that at the  time  of Dr. M’s evaluation  he had  been  off  his  anti-depressant  medications  for  about  six  months.  Without  stating  it directly, he implied that this had some impact on him at the time of the evaluation. He denied suffering from bi-polar mood disorder, however, Dr. M did not specifically diagnose him  with  that  disorder.  She  stated  that  without  further  testing  , the diagnostic picture was complicated. He has seen a therapist through the VA two times in the past year. He provided some medical records from the VA, but none contained any diagnoses or prognosis. He does not have any future sessions scheduled.  Criminal  Conduct     and  Drug  Involvement   and   Substance   Abuse  In  October  2018,  while  Applicant  was  in  the  Air  Force,  he  tested  positive  for testosterone,  a  schedule  III  controlled  substance,  during  a  urinalysis  test.  Further investigation by the Air Force Office of Special Investigation  discovered three witnesses who either saw Applicant inject himself with testosterone or other steroids, or to whom Applicant admitted that he used such substances. A residential search revealed that Applicant possessed a box of unused 31-gauge syringes and a vial of bacteriostatic water. Based upon the foregoing, in January 2019, Applicant was administered Article 15 UCMJ proceedings by his commander for a violation of UCMJ Article 112a, wrongful use of a controlled substance. After consulting with a lawyer, Applicant accepted the Article 15  proceedings,  rather  than  requesting  trial  by  court-martial.  After  making  a  written presentation to his commander, his commander found him guilty of the offense and issued punishment of a one grade reduction-in-rank and a reprimand.  In January 2019, Applicant tested positive during another urinalysis for letrozole, another controlled substance. Applicant was again offered Article 15 punishment, which he accepted. His commander found him guilty of the offense and issued punishment of a one grade reduction-in-rank and a reprimand.  In explaining these two drug incidents, Applicant claimed he took over-the-counter boosters and was unaware that they may have contained prohibited substances. He also 6 claimed  that he  never received  the  actual urinalysis test  results, so  he  was  unsure how the   substances  could   have   been   in  his  body.  In   his  hearing   testimony,  he   denied knowingly using  illegal steroids and  injecting  himself with  any type  of steroid. He admitted testing  positive  on  the  two  urinalyses.  I  did  not find  Applicant’s  testimony  credible  given the  corroboration  evidence  for  the  positive  tests results  .  In  February 2019, Applicant’s former girlfriend  reported  to  the  AFOSI that when she  and  Applicant  were  living  together  in  October  2018,  he  touched  her  in  a  sexual manner on three occasions. She claimed she told him to stop on each occasion. Applicant was  later  questioned  by  the  AFOSI  and  he  denied  any  nonconsensual  touching.  The investigation  was  forwarded  to  Applicant’s  command  for  potential  criminal  action.  The command decided that there was  insufficient evidence to act upon. During his hearing testimony, he denied this allegation. Additionally, he claimed he was a victim of sexual assault by his former girlfriend.  Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  Air  Force  in  May  2019,  at  the  end  of  his enlistment.  His  discharge  was  characterized  as  a  general  discharge,  under  honorable conditions.  Personal Conduct  Applicant filled out an SCA in August 2019. In Section 21 of the SCA, he was asked if  he  had  ever  been  hospitalized  for  a  mental  health  condition.  He  answered  “no.” Applicant admitted he was voluntarily hospitalized in November 2018, for a 36-hour period in a behavioral health facility. He claimed in his SOR answer that it was not related to mental  health  issues.  Earlier  during  his  background  investigation,  he  admitted  the treatment was for anxiety and depression issues. He told the investigator he was not sure he should list it.  In Section 23 of the SCA, Applicant was asked if, within the last seven years, he had  used  any  illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances.  He  was  also  asked  if,  within  the same  time  period,  he  used  illegal  drugs  or  controlled  substances  while  possessing  a security clearance. He answered “no” to both questions. That answer was false because Applicant was used illegal steroids between July and October 2018 and December 2018 and January 2019. He held a security clearance at the time of these uses. In Section 15 of  the  SCA,  Applicant  listed  information  about  his  military  history.  In  the  subsection inquiring about discipline, Applicant disclosed his discipline under Article 15 for positive drug tests. This is similar information that should have been disclosed in Section 23, as described above.  In  Section  25  of the  SCA,  Applicant was asked  if he  ever had  a  security clearance eligibility/access  authorization  denied,  suspended, or revoked?  He  answered  “no.” This answer was false because  on December 3, 2018, his military commander issued a letter suspending  Applicant’s access to  classified information. Applicant acknowledged  receipt of   this   letter  and   signed   for  it  on   December   4,  2018.  In   his  SOR  response,  Applicant 7 admitted  improperly  answering  this  question.  He  did  not  provide  a  reason  why  he answered improperly.  Applicant provided a letter of support from his current girlfriend. She stated that when they started dating in May 2020, he disclosed a mood disorder to her resulting from the death of his fiancée in January 2020. He was taking medication  at that time. After about a year, he decided to come off his medications. After doing his own research, he stopped taking the prescribed medications. She further stated that since coming off the medications, he is a new man. She feels coming off his medication was the best choice for him.  