In  Applicant’s  Answer  to  the  SOR,  she  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-f,  consisting  of $75,496  in  delinquent  student  loans  and  $1,265  consumer  and  medical  debts.  Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 35 years old. She has three children with her boyfriend. She earned her associate's degree in 2008. She has been employed by her sponsor since May 2022. She held an accounting technician position from December 2016 until she was hired by her sponsor.  Applicant did not list any delinquent debts on her SCA. In her Response she states she did not have sufficient income to meet her obligations and then be able to apply any of the excess to her alleged debts. She cites as an example having to replace her car, which resulted in a higher car payment and a higher insurance rate. The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below. SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b: education loans placed for collection in March 2015 in the amounts of $45,478 and $30,018. Applicant in her May 2022 security clearance interview acknowledged  her  student  loans  were  in  default.  She  told  the  investigator  she  never placed her loans in deferment or applied for forbearance and had never taken action to repay her loans.  She states in her Answer she was young when she allowed her “student loans to go into default and for the “years since it was in default [she] didn't think there was much [she] could do.” She offered that she had called the U.S. Department of Education and with the help of a representative “applied for the Fresh  Start  Program.”  She  states  she  applied  on  December  1,  2022,  and  that  the representative said she would receive a letter affirming the transfer.  Her Answer infers that  she  received  the  letter,  but  no  letter  was  included  in  Answer. The  February  2023 credit report shows her education loans as paid as agreed.  In  March  2020, as a  result of the  COVID-19  pandemic,  the  President directed  the DoED  to   provide   the   following   temporary  relief  on   Department  of   Education   - owned   federal  student  loans:  suspension   of  loan   payments,  stopped   collections  on defaulted loans, and a  0% interest rate. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and  Economic Security Act  provided  for the  above  relief measures through September 30, 2020. See  Federal Student Aid  website, ISCR Case No. 20-02787 at 3  n.1  .  This  student loan  debt  relief  has been  extended  several times. See https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19;. 2 SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d: utility accounts placed for collection in the amounts of $684 and $291. The accounts remain delinquent.  Applicant stated in her Answer she had  an agreement with her boyfriend that he would pay these bills. She stated she had taken accountability for these debts and that they would be paid on or after January 22, 2023. No evidence of a payment was provided. SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f:  medical accounts placed for collection in the amounts of $240 and $50. The accounts remain delinquent.  Applicant stated in  her  Answer  she  had  now  “taken  accountability  for  [these  debts].”  She  declared  that they will be paid on or after January 22, 2023. No evidence of a payment was provided. She explains in her Answer that her debt was the result of youth and naivety. She had agreed to split the bills with her boyfriend but that did not happen. Moving forward her plan is to not overextend her ability to pay. She adds in her Response that the steps she took to “develop and maintain a wellness plan” has increased her credit score from 405 to 674 and that her student loans have been restored to good standing. She offers she has reached out to a credit counseling agency and will be a member going forward. She does not support these statements with documentation. Applicant offers in her Response that her employer expressed to her that she is trustworthy, exercises good judgment, and is reliable. She notes she is eligible for rehire from a previous employer. She does not provide any supporting documentation. 