Applicant denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b but admitted all other debts alleged .  She  admitted  all  the  criminal  conduct  allegations    and admitted  the  cross-allegation  under  Guideline  G  .  Her  admissions  are incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  38  years  old.  She  has  never  married.  She  has  a  nine-year-old daughter.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2011.  She  worked  as  a  bank  teller beginning  in  2007,  initially  earning  $23,000  annually.  She  began  working  as  a  federal contractor  in  2014,  with  a  clearance,  and  she  has  had  one  ever  since.  She  initially earned a $52,000 annual salary, later increased to $60,000. She worked for contractor C from November 2016 to about October 2018. Her salary was reduced to $30,000 from about  June  to  October  2018  due  to  a  change  in  the  job.  She  worked  for  another contractor  until  September  2019,  and  since  then,  she  has  been  with  her  current employer,  a  federal  government  contractor.  She  has  worked  at  the  same  federal government department since March 2019 and has been in her current job since March 2021. She now earns $85,000 annually.  2 Applicant  listed  various  delinquent debts on her July 2018 SCA.  GE 2a, the  summary  of  her  background  interviews,  was  not  admitted,  but  various  financial documents she brought to those interviews are in the record.  Applicant  testified  that  she  lived  at  her  mother’s  house  until  2014,  when  she purchased a home. Her mother moved in with her. Four months later, Applicant’s child was  born.  Prior  to  that,  she  was  only  responsible  for  a  few  bills  .  As  a  new  homeowner  and  single  mother,  she  was  responsible  for  all  the expenses of managing a home and caring for a child.  In  August  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the influence of alcohol . She was pulled over on an interstate highway after she had been  out  drinking.  She  had  several  mixed  drinks.    She  pled  guilty  and received  probation  before  judgment.    She  also  had  an  ignition interlock  device  installed,  and  she  said  it  was  voluntary.  She  also  received  multiple traffic  citations,  including  driving  on  a  suspended  license,  driving  with  suspended registration,  negligent  driving,  speeding,  operating  a  vehicle  not  in  compliance  with inspection  requirements,  and  failure  to  display  license  to  uniformed  police.   The traffic citations related to this incident were not alleged in the SOR. In  December  2019,  Applicant’s  mother  had  a  severe  stroke  at  age  58,  leaving Applicant solely responsible for managing the household and caring for her mother and child. Her mother passed away eight months later, in mid-2020.  In  July  2021,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  three  related  counts: driving while impaired by alcohol , DUI, and DUI while transporting a minor. At the time of the SOR , these charges were pending.   This  incident  also  led  to  traffic  offenses  or  infractions,  including  driving  with  a suspended registration , reckless driving , and negligent driving . These citations led to fines, of $150, $510, and $240, respectively.  Applicant  reported  her  July  2021  DUI  arrest  to  her  security  officer  a  few  days later. She reported that she was driving with her daughter at about 11:30 pm, went off the road, and struck a pole. She reported failing a field sobriety test and that she was arrested for DUI and other charges.  Applicant  testified  that  after  her  first  DUI,  in  2018,  she  did  not  drink  and  drive. The 2021 DUI arrest occurred about a year after her mother died following her stroke, and she was still processing the trauma of those tragic events. Applicant had been at a family social function and had consumed several mixed drinks between 4 pm and 11 pm when  she  left  to  drive  home.  She  said  she  “had  a  lot  going  on”  at  the  time,  but  also asserted that  sleep  deprivation  was a  related  cause,  and  she  thinks  she  fell asleep  at the  wheel.  She  did  not  believe  she  was  intoxicated  at  the  time.  She  was  very disappointed in herself, particularly since she had her daughter in the car. She said the 3 accident  was “a shock”  to herself and her  family  and she deeply  regrets it.  In late January 2022 , Applicant pled guilty to DWI. She received a 60-day suspended jail sentence, and two years of probation. She was also fined $446.  Disposition of the two lesser charges  is not indicated but they may have been dismissed as part of the guilty plea. Applicant remains on probation until January 2024.  Applicant  asserted  that  she  was  told  in  her  plea  hearing  that  she  was  on probation  only  for a  year,  but  then  was  later told  it  was  two  years.  She  was  given  the opportunity  to  submit  post-hearing  documentation  showing  that  she  was  no  longer  on probation, but she did not submit any such verification. She also explained that she was allowed to travel internationally while on probation, and did so, as discussed below.  She took a six-hour alcohol class as part of her probation requirement.  Applicant  said  she is  only  a  social  drinker,  and  she  recognizes  her responsibilities  as  a  mother,  homeowner,  and  clearance  holder.  She  has  had  no subsequent  arrests  or offenses.  She  no  longer  drinks  to  intoxication.   Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleges  19  delinquent  debts.  This  includes  about $75,000  in  past-due  federal  student  loans,  and  over  $21,000  in  other  delinquencies, mostly  consumer  credit  accounts  in  collection.  The  debts  are  established  by  credit reports  in  the  record  from  December  2021,  December  2020,  April  2020,  December 2019, and February 2023.  Applicant testified that she is trying to work on paying her debts. She said many of them are either paid or being paid. She took a part-time job at a large retailer for a time to earn more money, in about 2017 or 2019.  She does not have anyone to help her financially.  She is able to maintain her household, feed her child, and care for  her  pets.  She  acknowledged  not  making  the  best  financial  decisions  and  said sometimes  she  will  “rob  Peter  to  pay  Paul.”    Her  financial  issues  began  in 2018 or 2019 with the pay cut noted above.  She is working with a financial advisor to improve her credit. It has taken time to improve her finances and unexpected situations like the COVID pandemic and her mother’s condition and death in 2020 were also factors that impacted her finances  The debts are detailed as follows: SOR  ¶¶  1.a    and  1.b    are  federal  student  loans,  alleged  as past due. Applicant denied both debts. The SOR is based on GE 8, her December 2020 credit  report,  showing  both  accounts  in  collection  status,  with  no  activity  since December 2018.  4 Since  March  2020,  federal  student  loans  have  been  in  forbearance  status  by Presidential  executive  order  due  to  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  Credit  reports  from December 2021 and February 2023  show the  same  amounts  listed as alleged  but the accounts were in “pays as agreed” status, likely for this reason.  Applicant took out student loans to finance her  college degree, earned in 2011. She believes she had made payments on them in the past but was not certain. She also had  private  student  loans,  which  she  prioritized  because  there  was  no  way  to  defer them. She said her private loans have been paid off. She acknowledged that her federal student  loans  were  delinquent  before  they  were  placed  in  forbearance  status  due  to COVID. The loans may have been delinquent in 2014 when she bought her house. This was  due  to  her  limited  income  and  inability  to  pay.  She  recognizes  that  payments  will soon  be  due,  and  that  she  will  owe  between  $400  and  $600  a  month.   Congress  recently  passed  a  law  preventing  further  extensions  of  the  COVID- related  federal  student  loan  payment  pause.  The  Department  of  Education  recently announced  that  federal  student  loan  repayments  will  resume  in  October  2023. https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19. Applicant  said  that  many  of  her  consumer  SOR  debts  are  being  paid  through automatic monthly payments. Some monthly payments are for $250 and others are for between $25 and $50.  SOR  ¶  1.c    is  a  debt  placed  for  collection  by  a  bank.    As  of February  2023,  Applicant  owed  $1,565.    Post-hearing  documentation shows a debt balance of $1,521.  This debt is being paid. SOR ¶ 1.d  is a debt placed for collection by the same bank as SOR ¶ 1.c.  As of February 2023, Applicant owed $2,186.  Post-hearing documentation shows a debt balance of $1,830.  The debt is being paid. SOR ¶ 1.e  is an account placed for collection by another bank.   The  debt  is  not  clearly  identified  on  a  recent  credit  report.   Applicant  said  post-hearing  that  she  contacted  the  creditor  and  was  told  they  had  no record of the debt. She believes it has been satisfied.  This debt is not resolved. SOR ¶ 1.f  is an account placed for collection by a department store.  As of February 2023, Applicant owed $1,310.  Post- hearing  documentation  shows  a  balance  of  $1,273.    This  debt  is  being paid. SOR  ¶  1.g    is  an  account  placed  for  collection  by  another  department store.    The  account  has  now been  charged  off.    Applicant 5 said she made several $228 payments. Her last such payment, $228 on May 2, 2023, satisfied the debt.  This debt has been paid. SOR ¶ 1.h  is an account placed for collection by Bank S.  As of February 2023, Applicant owed $1,093.  The post- hearing balance is now $1,042.  This debt is being paid. SOR  ¶¶  1.i  ,  1.j  ,  and  1.k    are  accounts  placed  for collection with agency M by the same bank, Bank S.  They are all listed as past due as of February 2023.  As to SOR ¶ 1.i, the account balance is now $628. As to SOR ¶ 1.j, the account balance is now $603. As to SOR  ¶  1.k,  the  account  balance  is now $1,061.   These  debts are being paid. SOR  ¶  1.l    is a  credit  account  that has  been  charged  off by  a  furniture retailer.  Applicant now owes $1,320.  She asserted that she has been making payments  but this is undocumented.  She  reached out to the creditor to determine the debt’s current status but was unsuccessful.  This debt is not resolved. SOR  ¶  1.m    is  a  credit  account  placed  for  collection  by  a  department store.  It has now been charged off.  The debt remains unpaid.   Applicant  asserted  that  she  received  a  1099-C  form  from  the  creditor canceling the debt, and said she filed it with her 2022 taxes .  This is undocumented. This debt is not resolved. SOR ¶ 1.n  is an account placed for collection by a bank.  The debt is now charged off and had not been resolved. Tr. 107-108) The account balance is now $873,  following  a  $272  payment on  May  12,  2023.   Applicant  asserted  that  the debt is now satisfied following this payment.  This debt is being paid. SOR ¶ 1.o  is a credit-card account placed for collection by a federal credit union.    The  debt  is  unpaid,  and  Applicant  had  not  made  payment arrangements  She asserted post-hearing that the debt has now been paid, on May 12, 2023, but this is not documented.  This debt is not resolved. SOR ¶ 1.p  is a retail credit account placed for collection by a bank.   Applicant  asserted  the  debt  has  been  paid.    She  provided  no corroborating documentation. This debt is not resolved. SOR  ¶  1.q    is  a  medical  account  placed  for  collection.    This  is account is shown as paid.  This debt is resolved. SOR ¶ 1.r  is an account placed for collection by a bank.  It is now charged off.  She had taken no action to resolve it by the hearing.   The  balance  is  now  $2,748,  though  post-hearing,  Applicant  received  a settlement offer of $950.  This debt is not resolved. SOR ¶ 1.s  is a retail credit account placed for collection by a bank. It has now been charged off.  Applicant was not aware that she has made any payments to resolve it.  Post-hearing, she asserted that the debt was paid  in  2021,  but  she  was  unable  to  access  the  payoff  letter.    This  debt  is  not resolved. The February 2023 credit report shows a new past-due account, for $6,009.   This  account  relates  to  the  car  that  was  wrecked  in  July  2021  when  Applicant incurred  her  second  DUI.  She  has  not  heard  from  the  creditor  about  the  debt  and  will have to look into it.  Post-hearing, she contacted the creditor and intends to resolve the debt through a payment plan.  Applicant does not have a 401 retirement plan. She receives no child support. She  pays  a  $1,350  monthly  mortgage.  She  does  not  own  a  car.  During  most  of  the pandemic,  she  worked  at  home  full  time.  She  now  works  at  the  office  three  days  a week. She takes public transportation and ride-sharing services to go to work. She was also “traumatized” by her 2021 DWI, so she is reluctant to get another car. She has not participated in credit counseling.  Applicant also acknowledged that, although she has a tax preparer and she filed a  request  for  an  extension,  her  2021  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  remained unfiled at the time of the hearing. Her 2022 returns, due weeks before the hearing date  were also unfiled. She had no explanation for the delays but is in contact with her tax preparer to address the filings. She does not have any outstanding tax balance.  Applicant  has  taken  several  international  vacations  since  2016,  including  to  the Caribbean  , Mexico  ,  and  to  Europe  and  the  United  Kingdom    .  Her trips to the UK are financed by a former romantic partner whom she visits there, but she has paid for the other trips. These trips are for a few days at a time and she says her trips cost about $1,200.  Applicant does not see these expenses as related to her clearance eligibility since she can afford to pay for them.  Applicant  concluded  her  testimony  by  stating  that  she  recognizes  that  her personal life is rather “chaotic,” but she attested that it has not affected her job. She is learning from her mistakes and has had to learn many life lessons firsthand. She is the first person in her family to graduate from college. She is trying to do right and raise her daughter and care for her pets. She wants to keep her clearance and her job and keep moving forward.  In  her  post-hearing  statement,  Applicant  said  she  has  made  huge  strides  in clearing up her debts and wants to be debt free in 2024. She also said that her second 7 DUI  was  one  of  the  biggest  mistakes  of  her  life.  She  recognizes  that  alcohol  is dangerous and should be consumed responsibly. She was not able to verify the status of her probation and asserts that she  will  continue  to abide  by probation  requirements until her probation ends in January 2024. She will also file her tax returns.  Applicant  said  she  has  worked  hard  to  get  where  she  is,  and  the  loss  of  her clearance would have a significant negative impact upon her professional and personal life.  She  has  tried  to  get  her  life  back  to  normal  since  her  2021  DUI,  despite  many hardships.  A  friend  and  a  co-worker  provided  reference  letters.  The  friend  attested  to Applicant’s fine and responsible character, as well as her remorse for her bad decision . She is committed to rehabilitation.  The co-worker attested to  Applicant’s  work  ethic,  professionalism,  and  dedication,  as  well  as  her  positive attitude, friendliness, and proactive willingness to help others.  