In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all allegations except the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.c. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. Applicant is a 35-year-old systems technician employed by a defense contractor since October 2021. He  served honorably in the active-duty U.S. Navy from 2010 until June  2021  when  he  was  medically  retired.  Prior  to  discharge,  he  worked  and  lived  in another state  before being assigned to a position in the current state , in about November 2018. Applicant was unemployed for about three months before acquiring his current position in October 2021.  Applicant is a May 2006 high school graduate. In September 2021, he enrolled in a  college  program  and  continues  to  attend  classes  part-time  towards  his  degree completion. He married in August 2016. He is father to three children ages 12, 6, and 4; and two stepchildren, ages 16 and 11. Four of the five children live with him and his wife in the family home. In August 2022, S2’s child support services department sent a Wage Garnishment Order, or Income Withholding for Support  order to his employer for direct withdrawal of his wages for child support. He had previously informed his employer that  the  IWO  order  was  forthcoming,  explaining  that  his  current  resident  state,  S2, required  him  to  pay  child  support  pursuant  to  the  IWO  order,  whereas  his  previous resident state, S1, did not have this requirement.  The SOR alleges eight financial issues, including seven delinquent debts totaling about $28,700; and the IWO order discussed above.  In his response, Applicant admitted all allegations except SOR ¶ 1.c.  He attributed his financial problems to his move in November  2018 to S2, a high cost of  living  state.  He disclosed  during his interview that he was not financially savvy or [financially] smart and admitted to making financial mistakes, but stated he was addressing the problem. . He hired a credit repair company to help “clean up” his credit, confirmed by the company in a letter dated May 2, 2022  It reads: Please   be   advised   that  [Applicant]   has  enrolled   in  our  credit  restoration service  to  assist with  the  removal of any erroneous, inaccurate  and  obsolete derogatory  credit  information   that  has  been   reported   to   the   three   credit bureaus. Our restoration  program  also  provides extensive credit education.  He stated the company was assisting him with the removal of any erroneous, inaccurate, or obsolete derogatory credit information [from his credit reports]; and credit education; but acknowledged the company was not a credit counseling service.  He stated he initially hired them in 2019  and that he pays $69 per month 2 for their service.   At the  close of the interview, he told investigators he would provide documentation and more details on the accounts; and that he was living within his means and paying off debts and would have no  future  financial  issues.    He  failed  to  provide  any  documentary  proof showing  the  terms  of  the  contract  including  the  effective  date  and  obligations  of  the parties. In  May  2022,  Applicant  earned  a  monthly  salary  of  about  $6,284  .  He  also  received  monthly  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs    non-taxable disability pay of about $2,871 . His additional financial assets included a savings account of about $11,300; a checking account of about $5,400; and a company 401 account of about $25,000. Applicant’s monthly discretionary income, after all bills and expenses were paid, totaled over $4,000.  The evidence concerning the financial issues alleged in the SOR is summarized below. SOR  ¶   1.a:   account   charged  off  for  $8,685.  Applicant  admits  this  debt.  He disclosed that he borrowed this money to catch up on bills before his discharge from the Navy. He states he was paying $325 monthly; and that he missed a few payments, but ultimately “caught up” in May 2022. . He later stated in his SOR response that he made payments until he lost his job due [to his] clearance. He stated he “[has] been in touch with [the creditor] and making strides to get [his] account back to positive.” . No further information was disclosed in his SOR response concerning any loss  of employment  referenced  here.  This  debt,  opened  in  March 2021,  appears in  all three credit bureau reports. In January 2022, it was 60 days past due with a balance of $7,758. . The past-due balance became $8685 in about June 2022; and the account was ultimately charged off to profit and loss.  This debt is unresolved. SOR  ¶   1.b:   account   in  collection  for  $4,653.  Applicant  admits  this  debt.  He disclosed that in about October 2020 he changed phone providers; and that, though he paid his bill in full and returned the leased devices, the company charged him for early termination of services.  He states he contacted the company and was waiting to  hear  back.    His  comments  in  his  SOR  response  are inconsistent with previous factual comments about this debt.  This debt was assigned in about January 2022 and remained in a collection status after he or his credit repair company disputed it. . This debt is unresolved. SOR ¶  1.c:  account  in collection for $192.  Applicant denies this debt, stating he has never associated with the company. This debt is identified as an individual account that was placed for collection in July 2022.  It does not appear in Item 5, the most recent credit bureau report. This debt is resolved. SOR  ¶   1.d:   account   charged   off  for  $13,049.  Applicant  admits  this  debt.  He disclosed this was a voluntary repossession of a car he previously owned. He stated he 3 is in communication with the creditor and that he is “making strides to get  [his] account back  positive;”  however,  he  offers  no  additional  details  or  documents  supporting  the status of the debt. The debt was assigned in July 2018 and charged off in about December 2021 . This debt is unresolved. SOR  ¶   1.e:  account  past-due  balance   of  $200   with  a   total   balance   of   $475. Applicant  admits  this  debt,  and  stated  he  is  in  contact  with  the  creditor.  He  offers  no additional comments or documents on the current status of this debt.  His last payment on the debt was in December 2021. It was ultimately charged off in about August 2022.  This debt is unresolved. SOR  ¶   1.f:   account   in  collection  for  $1,304.  Applicant  admits  this  debt.  He disclosed this debt was caused by a gap in insurance coverage after a car accident where his car was a total loss. He agreed to pay $110 per month until resolved but he failed to pay  the  debt.    The  record  shows  Applicant  disputed  the  debt  in  about December  2021;  but  he  offers  no  explanation,  information,  or  documented  proof indicating the reason or basis for the dispute.  The debt does not appear in the two later credit bureau reports.  This debt is unresolved. SOR  ¶   1.g:   account   in  collection  for  $650.  Applicant  admits  this  debt.  He disclosed that he purchased a service for his parents and that they paid the account for a few years but stopped paying the bill and failed to return the equipment. He stated he is in contact with the creditor but also working with his credit repair company to “clear his credit.” . The record shows he or his credit repair representative disputed the debt but he offers no explanation, information, or documented proof indicating the reason or basis for the dispute.  The debt does not appear in the two later credit bureau reports.  This debt is unresolved. SOR  ¶   1.h:   wage   garnishment   for  child  support and  child  support   arrears. Applicant  admits  this  debt  with  explanation.  He  disclosed  that  he  reported  this garnishment order for child support to his employer, explaining his previous state, S1, did not  require  child  support  payments  via  direct  garnishment  or  IWO  orders,  unlike  S2.  This statement is supported in Item 8. The issue is resolved. 