Applicant  admitted  all  allegations,  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.f  and  SOR  ¶¶  2.a-2.b.  His admissions  and  statements  in  his  Answer  and  Response  are  incorporated  into  the findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 37 years old. After serving honorably in the U.S. Navy from November 2004 to February 2020, he experienced approximately eight months of unemployment.  He has worked for his security clearance sponsor as a trainer since January 2021.   He held a security clearance while on active duty.   He  divorced  his  first  spouse  in  early  December  2009  and  married  his current spouse ten days later.   He has three minor children and one minor stepchild. He has a high school diploma.  The  SOR  alleges  six  delinquent debts  totaling  $26,514,  reflected  in  three  credit reports from May 2020 , March 2021 , and April 2022 . Applicant was able to settle two delinquent debts totaling $1,669, which still had an active collection on them.  He stated his intent to obtain a consolidation loan to  satisfy  the  remaining  debts.    The  evidence  concerning  these  debts  is summarized below. Guideline F SOR  ¶¶   1.a-1.b:  two  accounts  charged  off  in  the  amounts  of  $12,618  and $9,650. Applicant admits the debts. In response to August 2021 interrogatories from DoD, he admitted that he had not made any payments or made payment arrangements.  He states his plan is to let the debts he has recently resolved “settle on” his credit report and then to get a consolidation loan to satisfy the remaining debts.  SOR ¶ 1.c:  account  placed for  collection of  $1,142.  Applicant admits the  debt. At  the   time   of   the   August  2021   interrogatories,   he   admitted   that  he   had   not made  any payments  or  payment  arrangements.    He  was able  to  reach a  settlement with  the  creditor. He paid $300  to  settle this account in late  March 2023.  2 SOR ¶ 1.d: account placed for collection of $527. Applicant admits the debt. At the  time  of  the  August  2021  interrogatories,  he  admitted  that  he  had  not  made  any payments or payment arrangements.   On March 27, 2023, he paid the debt in full.  SOR ¶  1.e: account placed for collection of $1,988. Applicant admits the debt. In response to August 2021 interrogatories from DoD, he admitted that he had not made any payments  or payment  arrangements.  He  states his plan  is to  let  the debts he has recently resolved “settle on” his credit report and then to get a consolidation loan to satisfy the remaining debts.  SOR  ¶   1.f:  account  charged  off  in  the  amount  of  $589.  Applicant  admits  the debt. In response to August 2021 interrogatories from DoD, he admitted he had not made any payments or payment arrangements.  He states his plan is to let the debts he has recently resolved “settle on” his credit report and then to get a consolidation loan to satisfy the remaining debts.  Applicant provided no documents regarding a budget. He provided no details or documents about his current financial situation and how he would be able to resolve all the  remaining  debts  “in  the  next  few  months.”    He  blamed  his  financial situation on the transition from the military to a civilian job which resulted in a pay cut as well as periods of unemployment in 2020.  Guideline G SOR ¶ 2.a: Applicant admits he was arrested on December 8, 2006, and charged with driving under the influence  of alcohol.  SOR ¶  2.b: Applicant admits he was arrested on February 2, 2019, and charged with driving while impaired .  Applicant maintains  he  has learned  from  his  mistakes. In  his SCA  he  states  he  had completed  his 48  hours community service  and  will  pay his fines  at  his final hearing  in February 2021. In  his Answer and  during  his security clearance  interview he  asserted  that he   has  fulfilled   all   his legal  obligations  for  his  2019   DWI  conviction.   As  a   result  of  the incident,   he   completed   the   military  substance   abuse   rehabilitation   program      in December  2019.    He  added   in  his  security  clearance interview   “stuck  to”  his  after  care  plan,  but   this  is  uncorroborated.  After  his  personal evaluation  concluded  alcohol would  create  trouble  for  him, he stated  that  he  now abstains from  alcohol  use.  His December 2006  DUI charge  was reduced  to  reckless driving  and his license  was suspended  for six months and  he  was fined.   He argued  that these  lapses in judgment are not a  full  representation  of his character.  