Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a and denied the allegations in ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c. Applicant’s admission is incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant is 44 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2001 and a graduate certificate in 2005. He has never been married and has no children. He has worked for his current employer since early 2020 and has no periods of unemployment. He testified that he has held secret and top-secret clearances in the past. He is also self-employed with his own business.  In 1998, Applicant filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy. He testified he had about $10,000 of credit card debt that was discharged. He said he learned from his mistakes.  Applicant  testified  that in  2008  to  2010  he  purchased  three  rental properties.  In approximately 2015 he could no longer pay the mortgages on all three. He testified that he was attempting to find an amicable resolution with the creditors, but he was unable, so  he  walked  away  from  two of  the properties  and  stopped  paying  the mortgages.  He retained one property, because he said it was viable, but he could not provide information as to what happened with the other two properties when he defaulted on the payments. He admitted the charged-off mortgage alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c  but did not provide any information as to status of the property. It is reflected as charged off on his January 2022 credit report.  The debt in SOR ¶ 1.b  is a credit card debt from a home improvement store.  The  creditor  filed  a  lawsuit  and  a  default  judgment  was  entered  against  him  in September  2017.  In  Applicant’s  July  2018  statement  to  a  government  investigator,  he acknowledged the legitimacy of the debt. He used this credit card to pay for maintenance and improvements for rental property he owned in approximately 2015. When he decided he could no longer afford to keep the rental property, he stopped paying the credit card. He told the investigator he could afford to pay it but had mentally erased it because it had to do with his foreclosed property. He testified that he washed his hands of the property he had purchased and the items that related to them. He testified he was unaware of the 2 default judgment  that was entered  against  him  for the  debt.  He received  the  government’s exhibits with  a  copy of the  default judgment  in  March 2022.  He testified  he  can  afford to pay the  debt but has not.  Applicant testified  that he  has not had  financial counseling.  In Applicant’s April 2017 security clearance application  he disclosed foreign travel for pleasure from 2007 to 2017 . Many years he made multiple trips, and in 2016 he took seven trips for personal enjoyment.  Applicant rented an apartment in 2019 and used it for his business. He did not live there. He set up multiple computer servers. He was mining cryptocurrency at this office and  estimated  about  70%  of  the  time  the  servers  were  actively  mining,  which  used  a substantial amount of power and energy. He had a large utility bill. He said when he rented the premises the utilities were included. When the landlord learned he was operating a business from the premises, he moved out. Applicant testified that he always paid his rent on time. The debt is SOR ¶ 1.a  is the amount the landlord claims is owed for the utility bill. Applicant said he moved out in 2019 because he had computer servers in the  apartment,  and  he  was  taking  advantage  of  the  electricity.  He  said  he  received something in the mail about the debt but could not remember when, and he spoke with the creditor but could not resolve the debt. He said he had his lawyer draft a response to the letter he received at the time, but the issue dropped from his mind since then. He did not produce a copy of the letter.  Applicant received the SOR in February 2022 and the government’s discovery in March 2022. GE 5 includes court documents for the lawsuit filed by the landlord regarding the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant testified he was unaware it was part of a legal case. I did not find him credible. The case has not been adjudicated. Applicant testified that he could afford to pay this debt but disputes its legitimacy.  Applicant provided numerous documents to show that he has substantial financial resources.  His  annual  salary  is  approximately  $140,000.  He  testified  that  in  2022  he netted  over  $200,000  in  income.  The  extra  income  was  earned  through  his  private company.  He  provided  documents  to  show  his  investments  and  that  he  pays  his  bills automatically and timely. He provided spreadsheets to show his detailed budget and his excess  expendable  income each month  to show he is fiscally  responsible.  He  said  he does not take financial risks that he cannot afford to lose. He drives a 20-year-old vehicle because he does not like car payments and only uses credit cards when he travels. He provided documents to show that he has medical and dental insurance to support he is financially stable even if he encounters health issues. He provided documents to show he goes to the gym. He provided a copy of his bank statement to show he has a current cash balance of approximately $32,200 as of March 2023. He testified that he also has approximately  $325,000  in  different  investment  and  retirement  accounts.  He  provided copies of his credit reports to show his credit scores are in the 700s. He does not owe a 3 balance  on  any  credit  cards.  He  also  provided  a  detailed  document  that  lists  each allegation and government exhibit and then his response to each explaining the mitigating conditions he believed applied. He notes certain items that are no longer on his credit report.  Post-hearing, Applicant provided a copy of GE 2 with an explanation for each item reported  .  He  provided  an  email  with  corresponding  documents  dated  April  11, 2023, showing he negotiated a payment plan with the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.b. He made a $1,000 payment and the agreement is to pay $235 a month from April 2023 through March 2026.  He provided a copy of a letter he sent to the District Court on April 17, 2023, regarding the court case for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a owed for utilities to his former landlord. The letter stated that he acknowledged he was the defendant in the case, and he would pay the amount owed.  On April 23, 2023, he provided an email listing all of the entries on his January 2022 credit report and made comments about each entry. Next to the entry for SOR ¶ 1.b he stated it was being paid. This credit report also reflects the charged-off mortgage alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c . Applicant stated in his email of April 25, 2023, that he has held various different security clearances over the years and worked for different federal agencies. He loves his country. He said he cleared up any ambiguities regarding his old credit report and he is thriving financially. He does not plan on acquiring new debts and he will pay off his debts or pay on schedule as agreed.  