Applicant is a 50-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married in October 1993 and has three children  from this marriage. . Applicant has a high school diploma, and he  attended  trade  school  classes  between  June  and  August  2017.   Applicant reported no military service.  Since  April  2017,  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  as  a  radio frequency  technician.    In  his  work,  he  conducts  testing  on  shielded government  facilities  and  has  not  received  any  “negative  remarks”  from  his  employer.  Between  March  2013  and  April  2017  he  was  employed  as  a  landscape maintenance supervisor. He worked in Mexico between April 2008 and March 2013 as the  owner  of  a  small  landscaping  business.    Applicant  has  never  held  a security clearance.  2 Applicant’s finances Between 2013 and 2014, Applicant accumulated five delinquent accounts.   He  attributed  his  debt  delinquencies  to  income  shortfalls  during  his  years  of  self- employment.  Despite his past promises made to an investigator from he Office  of  Personnel  Management    in  December  2019  to  contact  his  identified creditors  holding  his  five  delinquent  accounts,  he  failed  to  do  so.   Altogether, Applicant’s delinquent accounts exceed $24,000 and remain unresolved and outstanding. Applicant  acknowledged  his  financial  mistakes  and  hopes  to  begin  addressing his  debt  delinquencies  with  his  improved  employment  situation.    He  did  not provide  any  developed,  well-organized  payment  plan  or  written  budget  for  addressing his debts. Applicant  currently  nets  $3,400  a  month  from  his  work.    He  has  no consistent  monthly  remainder  in  which  to  access  discretionary  funds  to  address  his debts.    He  has  a  401  retirement  account  with  an  approximate  $2,600 balance in the account.  