In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted the SOR allegations in ¶ 1.a, and she denied the SOR allegations in ¶ 1.b.  He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 44-year-old  senior manager.   She has been employed since 2001  working  for two  DOD contractors.  She  received  four promotions  from  her first DOD employer.  She has been  married  for 17  years, and  she  has one  seven- year-old child.  She  has not served  in  the  military.  In  1997, she  graduated from   high   school.    In   2001,  she   received   a   bachelor’s  degree   in  computer information   systems.      She   was   awarded   master’s  degrees   in   business administration   and   information   management.     Her  resume   provides   additional information  about her employment history and background.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana  and  took  gummies  enhanced  with tetrahydrocannabinol  with varying frequency from about August 1999 to about July 2021. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges she used marijuana and took gummies enhanced with THC with varying frequency from about September 2012 to about July 2021, after being granted access to classified information. In Applicant’s February 11, 2022 SCA, she said “I used marijuana a few times over the last seven years in a recreational setting. I have smoked marijuana a few times and taken gummies enhanced with THC. I would estimate use at 10 or less times in the last 7  years.”   In her March 31, 2022 Office of Personnel Management  personal subject interview  she said: [She]  admits  that  she   did  not  think  about  her  security  clearance   the   few times that she  used  marijuana. She  didn’t actively use  her  clearance  at [that] time  and  did  not think about it.  [She]  has  no  future  intent to  use  marijuana. She   understands  that  using   marijuana   while   possessing   a   security clearance is not allowed and could result in  termination.   2 In  1999,  Applicant  used  marijuana  while  she  was  in  college.    She stopped using marijuana before she was hired by a DOD contractor in 2001.  She was tested for illegal drug use before she was hired.  The DOD contractor’s policy was employees were not allowed to be under the influence of alcohol or drugs at work.  She was never drug tested after the DOD contractor employed her.  She did not use illegal drugs from 2001 to 2012.  In  2012, Applicant applied  for a  security clearance  because  her employer believed she  might need  it in the  future.  She  said  she  did not use  marijuana  in the  previous seven  years on  her 2012  SCA.   In  2012,  she   did  not have  access to  classified information.   About  two  months  after  her security clearance  was approved,  she was transferred  to  a  different  state, and  she  did not need  a  security clearance.  She   never  used   marijuana   while  having   access  to   classified   information.     She understood   that  she   was  not   permitted   to   use   marijuana   while   she   had   a   security clearance.   She  used  marijuana  a  few times from  2012  to  2014, which  was after she   completed  her 2012   SCA.     Although   she   did   not  have  access  to   classified information,  she  used  marijuana  after  her security clearance  was  granted.   She did  not  believe   her  employment  while  working   for  the   DOD  contractor  was  “sensitive” employment.   Her annual pay in 2020  was about $135,000,  and  she  supervised employees working  on  some  important DOD contracts  involving  weapons systems.   As   to   whether  her   employment  is  sensitive,  she   said   it  depends  on   how  the   term “sensitive” is defined.  Applicant used marijuana two or three times between 2015 and July 2021.  However, later she said she did not use marijuana from January 2014 through October 2017.  She ended her association with the people with whom she used marijuana, except for her husband who continues to use marijuana.  She has used marijuana with him in the past.  He does not use marijuana in her home or  in  her  presence.    She  did  not  advise  her  facility  security  officer  of  her marijuana use because she was not accessing classified information.  Applicant stopped using marijuana in July 2021 because she was looking for new employment,  her  daughter  was  getting  older,  and  she  had  made  some  other  life-style changes.  She has not received any medical treatment for abuse of illegal drugs.   Her  primary-care  physician  indicates  she  has  not  been  prescribed  any controlled substances; she has not received any inpatient mental-health treatment; and she has been of “sound mental health.”  Applicant regrets her marijuana use, and she does not intend to use marijuana in the  future.    She  acknowledged  her  marijuana  use  was  wrong,  and  she apologized for her marijuana use.  She provided a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement  or misuse  is  grounds  for  or  would  result  in  revocation of  national security eligibility.    See  AG  ¶  26,  infra.  She  offered  to  voluntarily  submit  to  random urinalysis testing for detection of abuse of illegal drugs.  On April 24, 2023, she tested negative in a urinalysis-drug test for the presence of illegal drugs in her body.  3 Character Evidence Applicant received excellent performance evaluations, which included “exceeded expectations” in the areas of integrity and trust.  Her ratings were all “exceeded,” “impactful,” or “exceptional.”  Her employers since 2001 have never  disciplined  her.    A  director  where  Applicant  is  currently  employed described her as an exceptional leader who is extremely talented, loyal, ethical, diligent, and trustworthy.  