Applicant is a 43-year-old woman with two adult children and one teenage child. from a previous relationship.  2 She was married from 2016 until her divorce in April 2023.  She has a high school diploma and she has taken a few semesters of college courses.  Since June 2022, she has been working for a defense contractor as a facility security officer.  Applicant has a history of financial problems. She attributes them primarily to low wages, lack of money management skills, and difficulty affording to raise children without adequate child support.  Her financial problems were later exacerbated by her troubled marriage, as her ex-husband often opened charge accounts in her name without her knowledge. Moreover, after their separation, Applicant’s husband failed to abide by the separation agreement to pay some of the bills.  Applicant’s difficulties paying for medical care also strained her finances. Applicant’s delinquent debt, as alleged in the SOR, totals approximately $45,000, Approximately  $26,000  of  this  debt  is  composed  of  medical  bills,  as  alleged  in  SOR subparagraphs 1.a, 1.h, 1.j, 1.l, 1.m - 1.o, and 1.t through 1.v.  Applicant incurred these bills before she began working at her current job. At that time, she received Medicaid health benefits. She was unaware that Medicaid did not cover her bills in their entirety.  Some of these medical bills are nearly 25 years old.   She intends to call these treatment providers and apply for a medical debt relief program to help her satisfy the debts.  She has not yet begun paying any of these debts and she provided no evidence that she has applied for a medical debt relief program. federal Approximately  $14,500  of  Applicant’s  delinquent  debt  constitutes government student loans, as alleged in SOR subparagraphs 1.b through 1.f,, 1.i and  1.p. They were in COVID-related forbearance through August 2022 .  Applicant has not made any payments since the forbearance ended.   She was supposed to pay the creditors $5 per month, the amount she was paying before the pandemic.  Approximately $2,500 of Applicant’s delinquent debt constitute private student loan accounts,  as  alleged  in  SOR  subparagraphs  1.p  and  1.q.  Currently,  they  are  in forbearance, and will remain so until October 2023.  The remaining miscellaneous debts, as alleged in subparagraphs 1.g, 1.k, 1.r, 1.s, and 1.w through 1.aa, total approximately $5,100. Applicant confirmed that the debt alleged in subparagraph 1.r, as duplicated in subparagraph 1.z, totaling $468, is now in current 2 status.  She satisfied the debt alleged in subparagraph 1.y, totaling $1,008, in 2020.  The others remain outstanding. In approximately 2018, Applicant retained a debt resolution company to help her with her financial problems.  She contends that they disputed all of her delinquent debts on her behalf, and helped her resolve debts that were not alleged in the SOR.  She did  not  provide  a  copy  of  any  retainer  agreement  or  any  evidence  of  the  work  they accomplished.  In  July 2023,  Applicant  consulted  a  credit  repair  company.  It  is  researching  her credit, identifying bills, and advising her on which bills that she should dispute.  Applicant earns $72,000 per year.  She has nominal monthly income and lives “paycheck to paycheck.”  