Applicant admitted all but two of the allegations in the SOR, as further discussed below.  For  each  allegation,  she  provided  a  brief  explanation.  Her  admissions  are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 55 years old. She is married with two adult daughters. She earned her bachelor’s degree in 2014. She served in the U.S. Air Force Reserve  from 1986 until 2013, when she retired as a technical sergeant .  She was on active duty from about 2009 to 2012 and returned to work in the defense industry in 2013. She has worked for various defense contractors since then. She has worked for her current employer since November 2017. She has maintained a clearance since her time in the USAFR.  This case resulted from her 2019 credit bureau report  accessed through the DOD’s Continuous Evaluation Program. That CBR noted that Applicant had incurred over $80,000 in delinquent debts.  Applicant disclosed on her January 2020 SCA that she had unfiled federal income tax  returns,  state  and  federal  income  tax  debts,  and  about  $90,000  in  federal  student loans, for which she said she was on a bi-weekly payment plan.  She discussed her various debts at length in her September 2020 background interview.  In  the  fall  of  2021,  Applicant  responded  to  an  interrogatory  from  the  DOD  CAF about  her  various  debts,  chiefly  her  federal  student  loans  and  her  federal  taxes.  Her response  is  undated,  but  the  documentation  she  provided  from  the  Internal  Revenue Service  is dated in September and October 2021.  2 The September 2022 SOR alleges that Applicant has unpaid federal student loans of about $76,000 , about $4,000 in medical and other past-due debts , about $4,700 in past-due federal income taxes , and two years of unfiled federal and state income tax returns . Applicant acknowledged that her admitted debts had not been paid.  The non-tax debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  CBRs  in  the  record,  from  August  2019, August 2020, January 2022, and February 2023.  The tax debts and unfiled returns alleged are established by Applicant’s 2021 Interrogatory Response.  Applicant  explained  in her background interview  that her tax and other financial issues began after she retired from her most recent period of active duty as an activated Air Force Reservist, in 2013. She made a good income on active duty and found it difficult to replicate that income in civilian life. She began working as a part-time contractor and did not have health insurance. She and her husband incurred medical debts they could not afford to repay. She also used federal student loans to pursue a bachelor’s degree. Due to her underemployment and limited income at the time, she depleted her federal Thrift Savings Plan  retirement pension. Since she was not over the age of  59½, she  had  to  pay  penalties  and  taxes  on  the  withdrawals.  State  and  federal  income  tax debts resulted.  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.m  concern  Applicant’s  unresolved  federal  student  loans, which total $76,645.  The SOR alleges that the debts “were in delinquent status prior  to  being  placed  in  forbearance  due  to  the  pandemic.”    In  her  Answer, Applicant admitted these debts and acknowledged that she had not made any student loan  payments.  She  asserted  that  the  garnishment  of  her  student  loan  payments  was stopped due to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Applicant’s  CBRs  from  August  2020  and  January  2022  show  several  federal student loan accounts as being past-due and in collection status.  A February 2023 CBR submitted by the Government shows that Applicant has 13 USDOE  loans,  totaling  the  same  $76,645  as  alleged.  Those  loans  are  listed  as  “Pays account as agreed.”  The U.S. Department of Education  paused collection of federal student loans beginning in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This likely explains why they are currently in good standing, since Applicant acknowledged that she has not made any  payments  on  them.  However,  the  USDOE’s  COVID-19  student  loan  forbearance program is ending. On September 1, 2023, interest resumes, and payments will be due beginning in October 2023. See https://www.usa.gov/covid-student-loan-help. Applicant  also  asserted  in  her  Answer,  without  further  detail  and  without documented corroboration, that “submittal of Debt Forgiveness has not been processed.” This  is  probably  a  reference  to  President  Biden’s  proposed  plan  to  forgive  several thousand  dollars  of  many  borrowers’  federal  student  loans.  That  plan  was  held  to  be unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in Biden v. Nebraska, No. 22-506, __ U.S.__, June 30, 2023  3 Applicant explained in her September 2020 background interview that she dropped out of graduate school in 2015 and was supposed to begin repayments on her loans soon thereafter, but  she  only  made  payments  “here  and  there” and  her loans  soon  became delinquent. She asserted, without corroborating evidence, that she had been paying $379 monthly at the time her payments were halted due to the COVID-19 debt relief program.  SOR ¶¶ 1.n , 1.o , and 1.p , 1.r , 1.s , and 1.t   are  past-due  medical  debts  that  have  been  placed  for  collection.   Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.n, 1.o, 1.r, and 1.s. I construe her failure to respond to SOR ¶  1.p  as  a  denial.  She  denied  SOR  ¶  1.t  on  the  basis  that  it  had  been  paid,  without providing corroborating evidence. The  debt  at  SOR  ¶  1.o    is  not  established  by  the  record,  although  one unalleged medical debt in the amount of $180 is listed on several CBRs.  As of January 2022, that unalleged debt shows a zero balance. . SOR ¶ 1.o is found in Applicant’s favor. SOR  ¶ 1.q  is a debt placed for collection to the  Department of Veterans Affairs .  Applicant admitted the debt and said she was unsure of the balance. She explained in her background interview that the debt is an overpayment of GI Bill education benefits that she believed had been paid. She did not proffer any evidence corroborating the purported payment. The debt does not appear on more recent CBRs. SOR ¶¶ 1.u  and 1.v  concern past-due federal income tax debt for tax years  2020 and 2017, respectively.  Applicant admitted that these debts have not been paid. SOR ¶¶  1.w and  1.x  allege  that Applicant failed  to  file her 2018  and  2019  state and  federal income  tax  returns  on  time,  as required,  and  that  those  returns remain  unfiled. IRS  records reflect that  they have  “no  record of return filed” for those  years.   Applicant  answered  both  SOR ¶¶  1.w and  1.x  by stating,  “I admit that this debt  [sic] has not  been  paid  [sic].”  I construe  her answer  as  admitting  both  allegations. She provided  no  documentation  that  she  has filed  any of the  federal or state   returns for TY 2018 or 2019. Applicant  disclosed  tax  debt  on  her  SCA  and  discussed  her  taxes  in  her background interview. She was asked in the DOHA interrogatory to provide copies of her state and federal tax returns from 2012-2019.  Only the state returns for TY 2018 and 2019 are alleged in the SOR. It is not clear from the record why Applicant has failed to file those returns. But for a December 2022 CBR , Applicant provided no documentation with her Answer about her recent finances, and she provided no documentation related to any subsequent debt payments, tax payments, or tax filings. She provided no documentation 4 about her current income  stream, monthly expenses, or assets, and  no  documentation, such  as  reference  letters or work evaluations,  for consideration  under the  whole-person concept.  She  did  not respond  to  the  Government’s FORM,  so  she  provided  no  updated information since  her Answer. 