Applicant admitted both delinquent student loan accounts  without further comment. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 45 years old. He has never married and has no children. He earned an associate degree in  2001.  He has been taking college  courses towards earning an information  technology    certification  since  December  2022.  He  has  worked  in engineering for a defense contractor, with a security clearance, since March 2016.  The SOR alleges two federal student loans owed to the Department of Education , totaling $29,865. Applicant admitted both debts in his Answer, and they are also established by his March 2022 credit report . Applicant  used  these  two  student  loans  to  finance  his  associate  degree.  The original amount of the loans totaled about $25,000-26,000. The loans were reported in collection status in early 2019.  He did not disclose any delinquent debts on his February 2021 SCA.  Applicant attributed his delay in repaying the loans to periods of underemployment and unemployment in the years after he earned his degree. He was not able to find stable employment until 2010. He worked for a medical company from 2010 to 2014. In 2014, he relocated to his current home state. He worked in the real estate sector from 2014 until 2016, when he joined the defense industry and secured his current employment.  Applicant secured deferments of his loan payments twice. He said he has never been on a repayment plan for his student loans. He acknowledged that there were several years where he took no action towards his loans. He admitted that he should have taken care of them many years ago and is “embarrassed about it” now.  Applicant acknowledged that when he started with his employer in 2016, he was contacted  and  asked  to  begin  repayments  on  his  student  loans.  He  requested  a 2 forbearance,  because  “every time  was kind  of not  the  best time”  to  begin repayments.    He maintained  that  he  did not  have  sufficient  funds  to  address his  student loans until  he   was  hired   by   his  current  employer.   His  starting   annual  salary  with   his  current employer  was about   $13,000   or   14,000. Since   then, his salary has  steadily  increased, and  he  now earns  an annual salary of $63,800.  Applicant  knew  that  delinquent  debts  were  an  issue  for  getting  a  clearance because  of  the  potential  for  “compromise.”  His  expenses  have  increased  since  he resumed taking classes  in December 2022. He is financing his current courses  “out of pocket” and through a tuition reimbursement employee benefit. He anticipates that he will pay about $14,000 to $16,000 “out of pocket.” The record did not indicate the amount he has paid to date.  Applicant has not been contacted by the U.S. Department of Education  about resuming his student loan payments after the post-COVID-19 forbearance program ends this fall.  He knows that his past-due student loans are a “roadblock” to furthering his education, but he has been concerned about beginning a payment plan and then falling behind.  There is no indication in the record that he ever contacted the USDOE to attempt even an income-based repayment plan. At  the  hearing,  Applicant  detailed  his  plan  to  resolve  the  student  loan  debt.  He intends to pay off his student loans in full by using the equity from his home. A few weeks before the hearing, he applied to refinance his mortgage. He believes he currently owes just  under  $30,000  in  student  loans.  He  plans  to  take  the  equity  from  the  mortgage refinancing and make one lump-sum payment to resolve the loan in full. He expects that his monthly mortgage payment will increase from $900 to $1,300, which he said he has sufficient savings to address. However, the true impact on his monthly finances is unclear, since it is too soon to tell without more information.  Applicant does not maintain a written budget, but he is current with all of his bills, and is able  to  detail his monthly expenses.  He  has no other delinquent  debts.  He has never  had  a  security  violation.  He  would  never  do  anything  to  compromise  himself because he “wouldn’t say anything about what I do or how I do it.”  He has no past-due taxes or tax returns.  After the hearing, Applicant provided an update regarding his progress in resolving his student loan debt. An August 4, 2023  Department of Education statement reflected his total loan balance of $29,866 .  His mortgage refinance was conditionally approved at some point after the hearing, but final closing was pending.  He indicated that he had reduced his 401 contributions. He said he has been “scared straight.”  