Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and material findings. Additional findings follow. 2 Background Applicant married in April 2005 and divorced in March 2009.  He remarried in November 2012 and has three children from this marriage .  .  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical engineering in  December 2000.  He reported no military service. Since  January  2001,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense contractor  as  an  electrical  engineer.    Previously,  he  worked  for  another employer  in  a technical support position.  He  has held a  security  clearance  since  June 2003.  Applicant’s drug history Applicant was introduced to marijuana in college.  He estimates to have  used  marijuana  intermittently  between  1997  and  2001.  His  use  of  marijuana typically  made  him  “feel  happy  and  hungry.”    Concerned  about  the potential  for  testing  positive  after  accepting  a  position  with  his  current  employer, Applicant ceased using marijuana.  While   on   a   camping   trip   in  another   state  in  May   1997   with   college   friends, Applicant’s friends supplied  him  marijuana,  which  he  used  with  them  on  the  trip.  Typically,  he  paid approximately  $15.00  for “one  hit,”  which  he  placed  in his mouth.   When   interviewed   by  an   investigator   from   the   Office   of   Personnel  Management   in May 2003, he  told the   investigator  that he  no  longer associates  with  anyone who   uses  drugs  and   has  no   “future   intentions  of  using   any  illegal  substance.”    For reasons, he  cited his concerns over succumbing to  irresponsible  behavior that could expose him to risks of losing  his job.  Between 2001 and 2008, Applicant avoided illegal drugs and persons who used them  altogether.  In September 2008, Applicant resumed his  use  of  marijuana,  in  this  case  on  a  camping  trip  with  his  cousin  in  a  neighboring state that at the time legalized the use of the substance for medicinal purposes.  Going through a divorce at the time, Applicant was burdened with stress and anxiety  and  did  not  consider  the  consequences  of  his  actions.    He retained  a  small amount  of  marijuana  for a  little  over  a  year  and  “smoked  it  1-2  times per month during that duration.”  Thereafter,  Applicant  abstained  from  marijuana  use  for  over  10  years  before resuming his use of the drug in September 2018.  While under work- related stress and anxiety, Applicant resumed his use of marijuana with his same cousin between  2018  and  2020:  twice  in  2018  and  once  in  2020    Applicant has  never  been  physically  addicted  to  marijuana  and  is  fully  familiar  with  federal  laws that ban the use of marijuana. With a better understanding of symptoms of stress and anxiety  through  his  consultations  with  his  engaged  therapist,  he  assured  that  he  is currently  better  situated  to  deal  with  these  symptoms  with  developed  coping mechanisms  and  avoid  marijuana  when  navigating  future  stress  situations.    He  fully  understands  and  appreciates  the  mistakes  he  made  in  turning  to marijuana  to  address  his  past  stress-related  issues  while  holding  a  security  clearance and the potential consequences he faces should he slip again in the future.  Applicant’s  submissions  include  a  signed,  sworn  statement,  pledging  to  remain free from all drugs, including marijuana, and refrain from any and all substance abuse.  In his statement, he fully acknowledged that any future involvement with drugs or misuse  of  the  same  will  be  grounds  for  revocation  of  his  security  clearance  and  any national security eligibility.  Applicant’s 2023  pledge to refrain from illegal drug use  , while  encouraging,  is not  the  first time  he  has  pledged to  refrain  from  possessing and using illegal drugs . He made a similar pledge to avoid any future use of marijuana in an OPM interview in 2003.  Further,  in  an  e-QIP  Applicant  completed  in  March  2010,  he  acknowledged  his purchase  and  use  of  marijuana  one  to  two  times  a  month  between  2008  and  2009 during a difficult time for him and assured he no longer possessed or controlled illegal drugs.    In  a  follow-up  interview  with  an  OPM  investigator  in  May  2010,  he acknowledged again his purchase and use of marijuana in 2008-2009, and assured he was no longer in possession or control of illegal drugs and stopped “cold turkey” using illegal drugs in October 2009.  In his own statement, Applicant traced his growth in a rural farming community to his college schooling, and to  his post-college acceptance of a position with his current employer.    He  described  his  current  marriage  and  separation  and  joint commitments to their “kids’ lives and activities,” while looking for ways to reconcile their relationship.    Applicant  detailed  the  active  hobbies  of  his  children  and  himself. Historically,  he  has  enjoyed  many  hobbies  .    He  cited  to  a  strong  family  military  heritage  and his  own  unique  skills  and  capabilities  that  have  enabled  him  to  design  and  build computing and processing systems for future military fighting platforms.   For all of his contributions to the U.S. fighting force, he remains “very proud.”  With  his  wealth  of  experience  in  the  defense  industry  and  more  recent  2023 pledge to avoid all illegal drugs  in the future, Applicant is entitled to  considerable  credit.  His  recent  pledge  of  sustained  abstinence  is  encouraging  and worthy  of  acceptance  as  a  sincere  reflection  of  his  current  thinking.  Because  of  his failures  in  keeping  similar pledges  in  the  past,  assigning  weight  to his  latest pledge  of abstinence  will  require  adjusting  to  account  for  his  failed  prior  pledges  of  future abstinence. Based on Applicant’s historical accounts of his marijuana use and repeated to  abstain,  additional  corroborating  proofs   are needed to fully validate his most recent pledge of sustained future abstinence. 4 Endorsements and performance evaluations Although  currently  separated  from  his  wife,  he  and  his  spouse  are  working seriously to reconcile. His spouse is fully supportive of his continuing efforts to manage his  stresses  and  anxieties  without  resorting  to  marijuana.    Applicant’s  spouse characterized him as hilarious and genuine, and a person who is both brilliant and kind to people.   Applicant’s  wife  herself  held a  clearance  between 2002  and 2016, and again  in November  2022.    She  credited  Applicant  with  being  active  in  his community  with food donations and Little League coaching.   And, she assured that she has never smelled marijuana on Applicant before or harbored suspicions of his “getting high” with his cousin.  Applicant is highly  regarded  by his senior managers.   Although,  none   of  these   references   professed   to   have   any  knowledge   of Applicant’s past use  of  marijuana.  Applicant is credited  with  superior contributions to  his employer’s defense  missions for the rated years of  2016 through 2022.  