In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  admitted  ¶  1.b under  Guideline  J,  with  explanations.  Under  Guideline  F,  she  partially  admitted  and partially denied the cross-allegation at SOR ¶¶ 2.a, she admitted the conduct at SOR ¶ 2.b,  and  she  admitted  all  of  the  debts  alleged,  ,  all  with explanations. Under Guideline B, she partially admitted and partially denied SOR ¶ 3.a, and  she  denied  SOR  ¶  3.b,  both  with  explanations.  Applicant’s  admissions  are incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  40  years  old.  She  married  in  2013  and  was  divorced  from  her husband  in  April  2021.  She  has  a  23-year-old  son  from  a  previous  relationship.  She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2009 and a master’s degree in 2013.  Applicant has worked as a federal contractor since at least 2005. She worked for one company from 2005-2008 and with another contractor from 2008 until 2014, both in State  1.  In  mid-2014,  she  moved  to  Puerto  Rico  with  her  family,  for  a  job  there  with federal contractor H. She held that job, in Puerto Rico, from mid-2014 until March 2016, when she was fired for misusing a corporate credit card, as discussed below.  After losing her job, Applicant returned to the mainland United States, moving to State 2.  She was briefly unemployed, until May 2016. She then worked for contractor  C  for  several  months,  until  she  was  hired  by  contractor  R  as  a  direct employee  in  November  2016.  She  worked  there  for  about  a  year,  until  moving  to contractor  L  in  November  2017.  She  remains  with  contractor  L,  her  current  clearance sponsor,  as  a  senior  systems  engineer.    She  has  held  a clearance since at least 2008 or earlier.  In  March  2016,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  company  H  for  misusing  a corporate credit card.  She explained in her background interview and in her Answer  that  she  used  her  corporate  card  at  a  local  grocery  store  to  buy  food  for  a 3 barbeque  with  other  company  employees.  She  said  each  employee’s  purchases  were within the company’s daily limit for credit card use. When she was questioned later, she said she used the card to buy herself food for a barbeque. She was accused of buying food for others, which was against company policy. She was later terminated.  Applicant said she never received a termination letter from company H.  Government  Exhibit  8  is  a  February  8,  2022  e-mail  from  a  security  manager  at company  H  to  Department  Counsel.  It  likely  responds  to  an  inquiry  for  additional information  and  company  documents  about  the  matter.  The  security  manager’s  e-mail references  information  “that  I  was  provided  by  our  legal  department.”  This  information includes  “admissions”  from  Applicant  that  she  a)  charged  over  $4,100  in  personal expenses on her company H corporate card; b) gave her corporate card to her husband “to  charge  personal  expenses  in  her  absence;”  and  c)  “misled  her  manager  regarding her  physical  location  during  work  hours.”    However,  there  are  no  supporting documents  provided  in  the  record  from  the  company  to  corroborate  any  of  these “admissions.” Applicant  said  she  received  an  e-mail alert from  the  credit  card  company  about possibly  fraudulent  charges.  She  then  reported  the  matter  to  her  employer.  She  said, “once  I found out  it  was  my husband  who  did  it,  I paid it  all off.”    She  was still fired  from  her  position,  and  she  said  it  was  because  she  used  the  company  card  for buying people food, in preparation for a company barbeque, as she said in her Answer. She said other company H employees were terminated for similar conduct.  She has not had similar allegations of credit card misuse with other employers.  On  her  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  had  a  roommate,  Mr.  H,  a  Cuban citizen with U.S. residency.  Mr. H’s status as a Cuban citizen is alleged under Guideline B. . His associate, Mr. B, is also a Cuban national.   Guideline J: In February 2019, Applicant was charged in State 3 with one count of felony theft and three counts of felony identity theft.   The offenses allegedly occurred in September 2018. According to the criminal information filed by the prosecutor in a State 3 court, Applicant and two male accomplices: used  the  financial information  of  at  least  15  people  and  used  that  financial information   to   move   money  from   the   victim’s  savings   accounts   into   their checking   accounts  and   then   withdraw  from   ATMs,  make   purchases.  and obtain  money orders  over the  course  of 61  transactions removing  a  total of $40,419.78   in  funds.”   ) 4 Applicant  travelled  to  State  3  by  plane  in  September  2018  and  rented  a  car. Using  available  information  such  as  her  driver’s  license  and  images  from  her  social media accounts, local police identified Applicant on video at multiple area grocery stores making money orders using cards containing the names of the alleged victims, and on video at a local hotel.  It was noted that there was reasonable cause to believe that Applicant would not appear in response to a summons, so a warrant was issued for her arrest, on $50,000 bail.  A January 2022 fax to DOHA from a State 3 police department providing the police records for the case included an “arrest date” of April 2, 2019, but also that there was a “Felony warrant active/associated with this case.”  SOR ¶ 1.a alleges both the outstanding arrest warrant and the underlying felony charges.  The  warrant  first  came  to  light  through  the  DOD’s  Continuous  Evaluation Program,  which  noted  the  charges  and  the  February  2019  warrant.  The  report  also noted that extradition was limited to five states in the Western United States.  Applicant  lives  in State  2,  in the  Eastern time  zone. She has not returned to State 3 since 2018.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  the  matter  on  her  March  2020  SCA,  and  it  was  not raised or discussed during her December 2020 background interview.  She denied  SOR  ¶  1.a  in  her  Answer,  asserting  that  she  knew  nothing  about  it  until  she learned of it in about December 2021 or January 2022 after she received interrogatories from DOHA.  She said she informed her facility security officer  a few days later.  She  has  pursued  legal  counsel  in  State  3  to  resolve  the  matter.   However, she testified that she has taken no further action to resolve the matter, noting that  she  was  told  that  retaining  local  counsel  in  State  3  would  cost  between  $25,000 and  $60,000.  The  bond  is  also  about  $50,000.  She  has  about  $5,000  saved  for  this purpose. But the bench warrant remains outstanding.  She testified that she was told that she must retain counsel in State W because that is where the bench warrant was issued. She understands that an active bench warrant is an ongoing security concern.  As for  the  underlying  criminal charges,  Applicant testified  that she  went to  State W  with  Mr. H  in 2018, when  she  was considering  moving  there  for a  job. She  said  they were  at  a   restaurant   and   they   “ran   into”   an   associate”   of  his  who   asked   her  to   buy money orders  for him.  They went  to  a  store  and  Mr.  B  asked  her  to  buy a  money  order. They  went to  several stores to  do  so.  Mr. B  had  a  card  with  his  name  on  it and  he  gave her the  PIN number. S  he  “never expected  it to  be  fraudulent.”     She  also   purchased   a  laptop   and   a   book  bag   for   Mr.  B.   She   denied   purchasing money  orders  for  him   12   times.     Applicant  had   never  met   Mr.  B   before   but  “I trusted   Mr.  H.,  so   I   assumed   everything   was  good.”      She   asserted   that   she cooperated  with  federal law enforcement  officials when  they asked  her about the  money orders in State  W.   The  state  elected  not  to  file  charges against  Mr. H, who was also implicated by the  police’s evidence.   According  to  police  records.  the  conduct  allegedly  occurred  on  numerous occasions in October 2018. Police in State 4 had access to the records from the offense in State 3, and, from those records, it was “immediately apparent” that Applicant and Mr. H were seen on multiple security videos in connection with the case in State 4. Felony warrants  for  both  Applicant  and  Mr.  H  were  then  obtained,  in  about  November  2018.  Applicant  first  learned  of  the  charges  when  “[Mr.  H]  came  back  from  Cuba  and was  arrested,  in  2019.  She  went  to  State  4  to  get  him  out  of  jail  and  was  herself arrested. At the time Applicant and Mr. H were living together. She reported her arrest to her employer’s FSO when she returned to work.  In January 2019, Applicant was charged in State 4 on six felony counts, including credit  card  fraud  ,  receiving  goods  fraudulently  ,  obtaining  a credit card number [for] larceny, and related conspiracy charges. She pled guilty to two misdemeanor  counts  of  credit  card  fraud  .  She  received  a  90-day suspended  jail  term  on  each  count  and  paid  $9,000  in  restitution.    She completed  the  one-year  probation  term  successfully.  . Applicant’s  petition  to  have  the  police  and  court  records  for  the  dismissed charges  expunged  was  granted  in  March  2022.    She  has  not  had  any other arrests.  Guideline B: Applicant  said  Mr.  H  moved  to  the  United  States  from  Cuba  in  2016.  They became  roommates  in  December  2017  and  lived  together  until  about  October  2020. She  denied  any  romantic  involvement.  He  now  lives  about  15  minutes  away.  They remain  friends.  She  last  saw  Mr.  two  weeks  before  the  hearing,  and  they  spoke  two days before  the hearing.  They speak  about once  a week. He  is a Cuban  national and permanent U.S. resident.  He will be eligible to apply for U.S. citizenship in 2024.  She  believes he renounced  his Cuban citizenship.    Applicant  and  Mr.  H  were  once  both  registered  as  co-owners  of  a motorcycle. The motorcycle is no longer in her name.  Applicant said Mr. H once owned a “pizza store” in Cuba. He served a mandatory year in the Cuban military. His mother remains there as do two brothers and two sisters. She has no contact with them, and she has never been to Cuba. His father is recently 6 deceased.  Mr.  H has returned  to  Cuba  three  or four times  since coming  to  the  United States.  After the hearing, Applicant provided a letter from Mr. H in which he says  he  has  been  living  in  the  U.S.  for the last  seven  years,  intends  to  apply  for  U.S. citizenship in 2024, and does not intend to return to Cuba.  Applicant believes Mr. B is also a Cuban national and permanent U.S. resident.   They  met  with  Mr.  H  at  a  club  in  State  3.  They  met  in  passing  and  she never  wants  to  see  him  again.  She  believes  Mr.  H  and  Mr.  B  were  associates  and friends in Cuba. She knows little of his background in Cuba and does not know what he does in the U.S for work. She last saw him in State 4 in about 2018. She has been told by  law  enforcement  authorities  that  Mr.  B  returned  to  Cuba  after  she  and  Mr.  H  were arrested. Applicant and Mr. B have no current interaction.  Guideline F: On her March 2020 SCA, Applicant disclosed her 2016 termination for credit card misuse.  She  also  disclosed  federal  tax  debt  to  the  IRS,  credit  card  debts,  a repossession, and federal student loan debts. GE 1 at 55-64) Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  concerns  Applicant’s  2016  termination  for  credit card misuse , both of her 2019 arrests ,  and  numerous  delinquent  debts    The  debts  are  largely established  by  several  credit  reports  in  the  record,  from  between  July  2020  and  June 2023.  Some of Applicant’s SOR debts have been paid. After the hearing, she provided an agreement with a credit counseling service that she retained in May 2023 to address her  remaining  debts.  She  is  to  pay  $409  a  month  into  the  plan,  according  to  the worksheet.  SOR  ¶¶  2.c  ,  2.d  ,  and  2.e    are  all  debts  that  have been  charged  off  by  the  same  credit  union.  SOR  ¶¶  2.c  and  2.d  are  two  credit  card accounts  Applicant  opened  with  her  former  husband  to  build  credit  history.  When  the family  moved  to  Puerto  Rico  in  2015,  her  husband  refused  to  find  a  job,  so  Applicant was responsible for everything for about three years, until 2018, and they fell behind on their  payments.    Since  February 2022,  she  has  been  paying  $100  a  month towards debts 2.c and 2.d.  She was unclear how much she  still  owes  and  there  is  no  current  credit  report  in  the  record  to  clarify  this.  AE  CC shows she still owes both debts in full.  SOR  ¶  2.e    is  an  auto  loan  taken  out  jointly  with  her  ex-husband.  It concerns a vehicle, now repossessed. Her ex-husband was making payments, but the account  went  into  default.  She  must  get  his  permission  to  be  removed  from  the  joint account,  and  they  have  no  contact.  The  amount  owed  is  what  remains  after  the  auto was  sold  at  auction.    The  debt  remains  outstanding  and  she  has  made  no payments.  7 SOR ¶ 2.f  is a judgment obtained against Applicant by Bank A in 2019.  This debt  has been paid.  SOR ¶¶  2.g  through  2.t are 14  federal student loan  debts placed  for collection  by the   U.S.  Department   of  Education.   As  alleged,  these   debts  total  about  $131,000.    A   June   2023  CBR   shows  14   federal  student  loan   accounts,  all listed   as  “pays  account   as  agreed.”   The   combined   total  owed   is  about   $131,000.    This debt is not addressed  in the  credit  counseling  plan.   Applicant said she learned in 2017 that the forbearance period was ending. She had not been notified earlier since she had moved. She contacted the collection agency and  began  a  payment  plan.  The  accounts  are  now  with  a  new  collector,  N.  She  is waiting  to  make  payments  since  the  debts  were  still  under  the  COVID  forbearance program at the time of the hearing. She has a repayment plan in place of about $10 a month for when the plan ends in the fall and can afford to do so, though she believes the amount will change after the forbearance period ends.  SOR ¶  2.u    is an account  that  has been  charged  off.  This was a  furniture purchase.  It   became   delinquent  in   2019,  after  Applicant  had   to   pay  the  $9,000  in restitution  for the  criminal case  in State  4. . Debt 1.u  has been  paid.   SOR ¶ 2.v  is a credit card account that has been charged off by a bank. Applicant said it was opened by her ex-husband in her married name and the address for  the  account  is  that  of  her  former  mother-in-law.    Applicant  paid  the account in full as of July 2022.  SOR ¶ 2.w  is an account that has been charged off by a credit union. SOR ¶ 2.x  is an account that has been charged off. Applicant opened account 2.w but never  used  it.  Account  2.x  was  opened  by  her  ex-husband  in  Puerto  Rico.  These accounts have been paid.  SOR  ¶¶  2.y    and  2.z    are  past-due  debts  owed  to  unidentified medical creditors. Both have been paid.  SOR ¶ 2.aa alleges both $8,432 in past-due state income taxes for tax year  2014 and a 2017 state income tax lien for $7,586, both owed to State 1. The 2017 tax lien is established by GE 10, but the tax year at issue is unclear. The $8,432  figure is taken from a May 2018 letter to Applicant from a tax collection firm.  Applicant  lived  and  worked  in  State  1  for  part  of  TY  2014,  before  moving  to Puerto Rico for her job with contractor H. She believed she did not have to pay federal taxes    as  a  resident  of  Puerto  Rico.  Further,  she  asserts  that company  H  erred  in  reporting  that  her  income  was  earned  “outside  of  Puerto  Rico,” 8 which, she believes, impacted what she owed in State 1 taxes as well.  The state tax debt and tax lien in State 1  ultimately resulted. Applicant testified that when she learned of the state tax lien, she contacted the state comptroller’s office. She said she was told to work through the IRS to resolve her federal income and the state taxes would be revised accordingly.  She included several documents relating to her efforts to resolve her federal tax debts. This includes her Form W-2 from contractor H for TY 2014 , correspondence with the IRS regarding TY 2014 , her 2014 and 2015 federal tax transcripts , and a letter from contractor H to the IRS . Applicant  believes   that  once   her  federal  income   for  the   years  in  question   are clarified   and   corrected,  she   will  not   owe  anything   to   past-due   state   income   taxes   to State  1.  The state  lien,  however, remains outstanding, due  to  the  discrepancy related  to her income  at company H. She  said she  remains in communication  with  State  1  but has not   paid   anything   of   what   she   currently   owes.      AE   Y   is  an   April  2022 letter from Company H  to  U.S. Social Security,  in their attempts to clarify the matter.   Applicant acknowledged  that she  still owes about $8,000  in state  taxes for TY  2014, and the  lien remains in effect.   Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  did  not  include  her  income  earned  from company H in Puerto Rico on her 2014 federal tax return because she believed she was entitled  to  a  special  tax  status  for Puerto  Rico  residents.    Similarly,  she  did not file a federal tax return for TY 2015 when she lived there and believes she did not have to do so.   She did file a federal tax return for TY 2014, since she lived part of the year in State 1.  She does not believe she owes any  past-due  federal  taxes.  GE  17  is  a  2016  IRS  bill  for  $7,251  for  TY  2014.  Since returning from Puerto Rico, she has lived in a state with no state income tax.  AN II is an IRS publication  regarding “Special Instructions for Bona Fide Residents of Puerto Rico.” It states, in part, that In   general,   section   933   of   the   U.S.  Internal Revenue   Code   requires  that U.S. citizens who  are bona  fide  residents of Puerto  Rico  during  the  entire taxable year, but who receive income from sources outside of Puerto Rico, and/or  receive   income   as   a   civilian   or   military  employee   of  the   U.S. Government   in  Puerto   Rico,  must  file  a   U.S.  Federal  income   tax  return. The income  you  received  from  Puerto  Rico sources is not  subject to  U.S. income tax.  Applicant lived in Puerto Rico for all of 2015 but did not establish that all of her income that year came from Puerto Rico sources. Applicant  submitted  a  May  2023  credit  counseling  and  budget  plan.  . It shows a monthly surplus of about $2,000 to $3,000. She has annual income of $139,000.  Through  her  credit  counselor,  she  has  payment  plans  in  place  for  all  the 9 remaining  debts  under  the  credit  counseling  plan,  and  has  continued  to  make payments, but for SOR ¶ 1.e for $15,000 and the state tax debt for $8,000,  Applicant  provided  performance  evaluations  and  awards  from  her  job.  She  is  a “top performer” at work.  She also provided a reference letter from her former husband’s son, who has known her for many years.  