Applicant's admissions in his Answer are incorporated in my findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is a twice divorced 44-year-old employee of defense contractor. He has an adult-aged son from his first marriage. He married again in 2013 and separated from his second spouse in May 2017. The divorce was final in 2019. There are two minor-aged children from his second marriage.  There were also two stepchildren from the second marriage.  He was granted a security clearance in 2008, again in 2011, and again in July 2015.  SOR ¶  1.a:  August 2021,  charged  with  driving while  license  suspended. In his Answer, Applicant denied the charge, as to the date listed, but admitted the underlying conduct.  He  stated  that  mitigating  circumstances  applied.  He  noted  the  underlying incident, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c, occurred over five years ago. He acknowledged that his driving  privileges  had  been  suspended  in  another  state,  after  he  pled  guilty  to  driving under  the  influence  of  alcohol  .  He  said  that  he  had  failed  to  satisfy  all  the requirements of his sentence, which included documenting that he had completed a court- ordered program and paid the required processing fee.  His suspension was flagged  by  his  home  state’s  department  of  motor  vehicles  ,  which  resulted  in suspension of his home state driver’s license. He took the steps necessary to  reinstate his driving privileges in the state where he had received the DUI.  He then was able to go to his DMV and get his license reinstated.  He stated he was never informed about the license suspension in his home state because the notice had been returned  to  the  DMV  as  undeliverable  by  the  U.S.  Postal  Service.    The charge  was  dismissed  without  prejudice  on  December  3,  2021,  after  he  provided  the necessary paperwork  2 SOR ¶  1.b: January  2018, charged with  Breaking and Entering;  Assault and Battery;   and   Abduction,   and   convicted  of   Assault  and   Battery   and  sentenced  to one  year  of   imprisonment      and   probation.   In  his Answer Applicant admits being charged but disputes the accuracy of the charges while acknowledging full responsibility for his inappropriate actions, which resulted in him being indicted by a grand jury for a Class 5 Felony  and  a Class 1 Misdemeanor .    He  pled  guilty  to  the  Class  One Misdemeanor,  Domestic  Assault  and  Battery,  and  was  sentenced  to  12  months confinement,  with  10  months  suspended.    He  was  allowed  to  serve  the unsuspended  portion  of  his  confinement  on  the  weekends.    He  asks  that mitigating circumstances be considered.  After almost  three  years  of  separation  from his  spouse  he  entered  her home  in hopes  of  catching  her  with  another  man  whom  he  believed  to  be  a  drug  dealer.  In  a statement to a deputy sheriff, he acknowledged that he knew he was not welcome in the home and that it was a poor choice to try to go upstairs to find the man.  His spouse tried to stop him.   He stated he never laid his hands on her. “She grabbed on to my belt and went for the ride. And …I had so much adrenaline going through me, I carried myself and her, with her dragging up  the stairs with her holding on to my belt or my clothing or whatever it was, and – all the way into the bedroom where she let go after we entered the door.”  His spouse and stepdaughter described him as dragging her upstairs by her wrists.  After verbally confronting the man, he left his spouse’s home. Applicant attributed bruising on his spouse’s wrists to their rough sex that they had engaged in earlier in the day and to her anemia that  caused her to bruise easily.  He was arrested and held in jail for six days.  He testified that he had never laid a hand on his wife and had never raised his hand to a woman.  He explained that he only pled guilty to avoid possibly being sentenced to 20 years in prison and to have a chance to gain  custody of his children, which he did.  He stated: “So yes, I did plead guilty to it. But did I do it? No, I did not. That's that fine gray area in life that, you know….” 1 SOR ¶¶  1.c  and 2.a: February  2017, charged with  DUI;  DUI  with  Blood Alcohol Content   over  .15;   Evading;   and   Hit  and   Run  Property   Damage.  Convicted   and sentenced  to   one  day   of   imprisonment;   three   years   of   probation;   forty  hours  of 1 I note: “The doctrine of collateral estoppel generally applies in DOHA hearings and precludes applicants from contending that they did not engage in criminal acts for which they were convicted. ISCR Case No. 95-0817 at 2-3 . There are exceptions to this general rule, especially with respect to misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas. Relying on federal case law, the Appeal Board has adopted a three-part test to determine the appropriateness of applying collateral estoppel to misdemeanor convictions. First, the applicant must have been afforded a full and fair opportunity to litigate  the issue in the criminal trial. Second, the issues presented for collateral estoppel must be the same as those resolved against  the  applicant  in  the  criminal  trial.  Third,  the  application  of  collateral  estoppel  must  not  result  in “unfairness,” such as where the circumstances indicate lack of incentive to litigate the issues in the original trial. ISCR Case No. 04-05712, .” This  allegation falls  into the  exception. I have applied the exception with respect to misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas. 3 community   service;  required  to   attend  a   three-month  first  offender  class;   and license  suspended for one year. In his Answer Applicant admits that he was charged with these four misdemeanors and takes full responsibility for his actions, which occurred on the night his oldest son informed him that his wife was having an affair.   He  notes  that  he  reported  the  incident  promptly  to  his  security manager  and  the  accident  resulted  in  no  injuries  and  very  little  property  damage  to  a barrier. At the hearing he explained that he decided to  drink hard liquor instead of beer and  when  the  bar did not  have  his  preferred  brand  of  rum,  he  was  served  rum  with  a higher alcohol content. He said, “I did not know that” the rum had a higher alcohol content. He stated that he ended up “getting inebriated” and drove into a vehicle barrier. He was stopped  and  arrested  by  a  sheriff’s  deputy.    He  pled  guilty  to  DUI.  His license was suspended for one year. He had to pay fines, court costs, attend a substance abuse program, and do 40 hours of community service, which he said that he completed.  During his security clearance interview he told the investigator that he had been drinking  with  a  friend  he  had  made.  He  stated  that  his  friend  had  invited  him  to  his residence  for a  social  gathering  and  that  he  had  consumed  a  mixed  drink.  He  did  not recall any additional information about the night due to blacking out. He stated  that he became aware of his surroundings when he woke up in jail.  He said that he does not “drink any kind of liquor whatsoever” and if he does have any kind of alcohol, “it is a couple beers, and that is it.” He added that he drinks by himself in  the  privacy  of  his  “own  home” except  for  at  company  events  where  he  drinks  to  be social.  He vowed that he would not drink and drive again.  SOR  ¶  1.d: April  2013,  charged with  Possession of  Marijuana, Possession of Drug  Paraphernalia,  and Speeding. In his Answer Applicant admits being charged but denies  committing  the  offenses.  He  said  that  he  pled  guilty  to  an  improper  equipment violation.  Applicant was pulled over for speeding. When the state trooper asked  to search his  vehicle,  he  consented.    He  acknowledged  that  he  had  told  the  security clearance  investigator  in  his  2017  interview  that  the  state  trooper  said  he  smelled marijuana  in the  car and  requested to search  the  vehicle.   Applicant said that he did not smell marijuana because he had suffered multiple broken noses and was a heavy smoker. He described the trooper’s discovery “as like the smallest little  thing  in  a  little  bag,  is  what  the  police  officer  pulled  out.”    The  trooper reported detecting a strong  odor of marijuana  after pulling  Applicant over for speeding and that Applicant told him that the marijuana was in the center console of the vehicle. The trooper retrieved a glass bowl containing marijuana with a cork and a glass pipe.   Applicant  said  that  after  he  returned  from  the  work  assignment,  another employee admitted that the marijuana and drug paraphernalia belonged to him.   At  the  hearing,  Applicant  denied  possessing  marijuana  since  1999.   4 Ultimately  the  charges  were  voluntarily  dismissed,  and  he  was  cited  for  a  nonmoving violation, improper equipment.  SOR ¶¶   1.e  and 2.a: April  2006, charged with DUI; failure  to  stop at the  scene of   an  accident,  and   refusal  of   breathalyzer.   Convicted  of   the   lesser   offense   of reckless   driving;   required  to   pay   a   fine;   and   a  six-month   driver’s   license suspension. In his Answer Applicant admits the allegation and takes full responsibility for this incident. In mitigation, he cites that the incident is over 16 years old and occurred during a fifth-year anniversary celebration with his first wife where he and his wife were harassed by a group of 10 individuals. The group assaulted him, and he and his wife fled the area in his car. They were chased by this same group and after the group departed, he was picked up for driving under the influence. At the hearing, he testified that his first spouse had been driving and wrecked the vehicle. He said that he had been prepared to fight the charges, but his lawyer suggested that he just take the plea deal.  He pled guilty to protect his wife from having to go through the legal process.  When asked by his counsel, “Were you drinking and driving on April 2006?” he stated “No, I was not.”  Applicant’s wife told the police that Applicant was driving the vehicle because she was not good with a manual transmission and that he had been attempting to get away from a group that was trying to fight him. She described Applicant as losing control of the vehicle at an intersection and striking a tree. Applicant told the responding police officer, that he had been trying to get away from a group of males to protect his wife and himself and had lost control of the vehicle while attempting to evade the group of men.  He explained to a police officer that he left the scene of the accident to call the police and that he had only consumed two twelve-ounce beers.  The police officer noted the strong smell of alcohol from Applicant, that the vehicle’s airbags had deployed, that the  driver’s side  airbag  had  blood  on  it, and that Applicant “was bleeding from his head.” 2 SOR ¶¶   1.f and 2.a: March 1999, charged  and convicted of  DUI   and possession of  marijuana,  and required to  pay  a  fine, attend counseling;  and had  his   license   suspended  for  approximately   6   months.  In  his  Answer  Applicant admits the allegation, takes full responsibility for this incident and cites the length of time 2  I note:  “The  doctrine of collateral  estoppel  generally  applies  in DOHA  hearings  and  precludes  applicants from  contending  that they  did not engage in criminal  acts  for which they  were convicted. ISCR Case No. 95-0817  at 2-3 . There are exceptions  to this  general  rule, especially  with  respect to  misdemeanor  convictions based o  n  guilty pleas. Relying  on  federal  case law, the  Appeal Board has adopted  a three-part test to determine the appropriateness of applying  collateral  estoppel to misdemeanor convictions. First, the  applicant must have been afforded a full  and fair  opportunity  to litigate  the  issue  in the criminal trial. Second, the issues presented for collateral  estoppel  must be the same as those resolved against  the  applicant   in   the  criminal   trial.  Third,  the   application   of  collateral   estoppel   must  not  result  in “unfairness,”  such as  where  the  circumstances  indicate  lack  of incentive to litigate the  issues  in the original trial.   ISCR  Case  No.  04-05712,  .”   I   have   applied  the  exception   with  respect  to misdemeanor convictions based on guilty pleas. 5 since  this  incident  as  well  as  the  mitigation  steps  he  has  taken  since  the  incident  in January 2018.  At the  hearing  he  explained   “I was hanging  out with  the  wrong  crowd,  and  I  -- I had,  I think it was like  a  beer. Not  even  a   beer. I don't remember because  it was a  big bottle but  I didn't drink  it all. So  it was just,  I had  a  couple  drinks off of it. But we drove afterwards.” He  could not remember why   he   was pulled  over but   blamed  the  police   for pulling  him  over on  the  basis  of  “…being  suspicious  because  it was  like  1  in  the morning or something  like  that.  In  [...  County], back then  that was suspicious  if  you  were  driving  at 1:00  in  the  morning  in a  small  county.”   He pled  guilty and  lost  his license  for a year. He  stated  that he  was required  to  go to counselling  and  submit to “drug tests and all  that stuff…. I think I ended  up  having  to  do  two  days in  jail or three  days in jail  because I failed a  drug test.  Again, young, dumb, and  full of it.”  SOR  ¶¶   1.g   and  1.h:   In  June  1998,   charged   with   simple   possession   of marijuana  ,  convicted  and sentenced to  probation. As  a  result of failing  several   mandatory   drug  urinalyses   during   probation,   sentenced  to approximately  three  days  of  imprisonment.  In approximately  May  1997, you were charged  with   Possession  of   Paraphernalia   and  convicted.     After  the Government’s  amendment,  Applicant  admitted  the  incidents  and  discussed  the  two events together. At the hearing he stated, “I got caught with a marijuana roach, probably a 32nd-of-a-gram of weed,” which was the paraphernalia charge. He described the other incident as “…the MPs sneak attacked us in the middle of the night. And I was the only military person there, military dependent there out of 12 people. And so I was arrested for possession of marijuana. And there was -- they found all kinds of marijuana in the woods, but -- so I was -- I got -- everybody there, when we went to court, pointed the finger at [Applicant]. I was the only one with pot. How funny that works. So I took that charge, and I did that.” He acknowledged failing a mandatory drug test required as part of his sentence and having to serve time in jail.  SOR  ¶   1.i:   In  approximately   March  1996,    charged  with   Possession  of Marijuana  with  Intent  to  Distribute,  convicted  and sentenced  to  probation, which included  a   substance   abuse   program.  During  probation, sentenced  to approximately   two  days   of   imprisonment   as   a   result  of   failing  a   mandatory urinalysis.     In  his  Answer  Applicant  admits  the  conduct  and  takes  full responsibility for his actions.  At the hearing he admitted to being arrested for possessing a quarter pound of marijuana. He was charged with intent to distribute. He acknowledged his arrest in his 2008 SCA and in his 2008 subject interview. He admitted providing marijuana to friends but denied dealing drugs.   He described his response to his sentence as “I did everything but complete it successfully. I believe that I had to do two days in jail because I failed a drug test.”  SOR ¶  1.j: In  February  1994,   charged with and convicted of  Possession of Marijuana  and  sentenced to  probation.   In his Answer Applicant admits to the possession and takes full responsibility for his juvenile conduct.  At the hearing  he  confirmed  his  security  clearance  interview  that  he  was  arrested  for  having 6 about a gram of marijuana in his possession.  He blamed his actions on trying to make new friends because he was new to the area.  He cited the decision- making of a young person, who did not realize what he was doing, for his actions.  He admitted he “went to all these classes and all that stuff. And obviously, it didn't work for me because I was again young and dumb” referencing SOR ¶ 1.i.  I  found  Applicant's  responses  and  demeanor  at  the  hearing  inconsistent  with someone who was reliably telling the truth. Inconsistencies between his testimony, prior pleas of guilty, statements to the police and background investigators. and other evidence in the record including witness accounts further undermined his credibility. Applicant  offered  the  testimony  of  two  work colleagues,  as  well  as  his  father,  a retired senior enlisted member of the U.S. Air Force. The witnesses were very credible. They detailed their familiarity with Applicant and events in Applicant’s life that had set him back. The witnesses understood the nature, extent, and seriousness of the conduct and circumstances surrounding the conduct of Applicant. They expressed their confidence in Applicant’s ability to maintain a security clearance.  