Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  - 1.d  and  provided  additional  comments  in  her response to the SOR. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  contractor.  She  is divorced  and  has  no  children.  She earned  her  bachelor’s  degree  in  2009.  She  has  been  employed  as  a  contractor  since 2017.  Applicant works as a senior copy-writing supervisor. In that position, she works on projects  that  help  military  members  and  families  find  resources  to  assist  them.  She  is motivated and passionate about her work.  The allegations in the SOR concern Applicant’s long-term use of marijuana from about October 2006 to about January 2022 and intent to continue use ; her purchase of marijuana from about October 2007 to about October 2019 ; her use of cocaine and hallucinogenic mushrooms during about February 2012 ; and  her  misuse  of  the  prescription  drug  codeine  from  about  March  2013  to  about December 2013 . She admitted all four of the allegations.  In  her  SCA,  SOR  response,  subject  interview,  and  her  testimony,  Applicant admitted using marijuana since about October 2007. She began using it as a teenager and  has  found  it  improves  her mood.  She  experienced  depression  in  high  school  and turned to marijuana and alcohol to self-medicate. A mental health professional eventually proscribed anti-depressants which she found to be effective. She has been open with her therapist and primary care physician regarding her marijuana use and neither expressed concern. Upon legalization in her state, she obtained a medical prescription for marijuana and vapes it. She stated her prescription marijuana helps her to feel relaxed, optimistic, and peaceful. She last used marijuana the morning of the hearing.  2 Applicant  knows  the  use  of  marijuana  violates  federal  law,  even  when  legally prescribed  under  state  law,  but  she  intends  to  continue  to  use  it.  She  considers  it  an effective  medical  treatment  for  her  depression.  She  stated  her  employer  has  a  policy against the use of illegal drugs. She stated her employer occasionally requires urinalysis and that though she would expect to test positive for marijuana metabolite, she was not overly concerned.  Applicant stated prior to her state legalizing marijuana for medical purposes, she would purchase it on various occasions for personal use from friends or friends of friends. She would occasionally sell small amounts to friends. On average, she purchased a few grams every few months.  In about February of 2012, while studying overseas as part of a semester abroad, Applicant used cocaine and hallucinogenic mushrooms. She was offered the mushrooms by a friend she was studying with while on a sight-seeing trip and was offered the cocaine at a night club. She did not purchase either of them. She tried both. She has not used them since and has no intention of using them again. She is no longer close to the friend who was with her at the time.  Applicant tore her anterior cruciate ligament  in late 2012 or early 2013. She was prescribed codeine for pain management. During the treatment period, she did not use all of the codeine. She had four to five pills left after the prescription period ended. From March through December 2013 Applicant used the remaining four to five codeine pills for additional pain management. After they were gone, she used Tylenol or ibuprofen.  