Applicant is 32 years old.  He  graduated  from  high  school in 2008  and  has taken some   college   courses.  He  married   in  September  2013   and   has  one   minor  child.  He separated   from   his  wife   in  March  2018.   They  have   not  divorced.    He   has  a   new relationship,   and   Applicant  and  his cohabitant  have   a   newborn  child.   He  served   in  the U.S.  Marine   Corps     from   July  2009   through   May  2017,  at   which   time   he   was honorably discharged. He experienced  a  period  of unemployment for nine  months in 2017 and   2018.  In   August   2018   he   began   working   as  a   specialist  for   a   U.S.  Government contractor. He changed  employers to  his current clearance  sponsor in November 2022, when his former employer took over on the government contract on which he  now works as  a   communications   specialist.  He   was   granted   a   security  clearance   in  2009.  He   is presently  applying  for national security eligibility in connection  with  his employment.   Paragraph 1  The  Government  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  clearance because  he  is  financially  overextended  with  delinquent  debts  and  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR identifies 13 delinquent debts in collection totaling about $62,000. The existence and amounts of these debts are supported by the Government’s credit reports in the record dated September 1, 2021, December 8, 2022, and July 24, 2023.  2 The background and status of each of the debts alleged in the SOR are as follows: SOR ¶  1.a.  Charged-Off Balance  on Vehicle Loan Following Voluntary Repossession. Applicant opened this account in July 2016 while he was serving in the USMC. Following his discharge, he was unemployed for a period and then planned to relocate to another state . He knew that he could not afford to continue making the monthly payments, and he voluntarily relinquished the vehicle. Also, he had access to  another  car  in  State  2.  He  mistakenly  understood  that  returning  the  vehicle  would satisfy the debt on the loan. He found it “odd” that the creditor kept sending him bills after the repossession, but he figured that it would just take time to clear up the paperwork. He became aware of the outstanding debt at the time of his security clearance background interview in  September 2021.  Applicant  testified  that  the  creditor is demanding  the  full payment  of  the  balance  on  the  loan  after  deducting  the  resale  price  for  the  vehicle , and that he  has attempted unsuccessfully  to negotiate a  payment plan.  His last  conversation  with  the  creditor  was  in  January  2023,  about  six months  prior  to  the hearing. In a post-hearing written statement, Applicant acknowledged his responsibility for  this  debt  and  wrote  that  he  “was  working  with  the  creditor  to  come  up  with  an agreement to pay off this debt.” This debt is not resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.b. Collection  Debt  on  an  Unpaid  Rental Lease.  Applicant moved out  of  the  family  apartment in  State  1  when  the  couple  separated. He  then  moved  to  State 2.   His  wife   agreed   to  continue   paying   rent  pursuant to   the   lease, which   they both   had signed. However, she  later relocated  to  State  3  and  broke  the  lease  on  the  apartment. Applicant  acknowledges  his  obligation   on   the   lease   and   made   a   one-time   payment  of $600  in 2022. He has not made  any further payments because  he  is waiting  for his wife to   acknowledge   her responsibility for being   a   party   to   the   lease  and   then   breaking   the lease. This  debt  is  not  resolved.   SOR  ¶  1.c.  Charged-Off  Balance     on   an   Unpaid  Credit-Card   Account. Applicant opened  this account in January 2021  and  defaulted  on  the  monthly payments in April 2021. He paid off  the  account in March  2023. This  debt  is  resolved.   SOR ¶  1.d.  Past-Due Debt  on a Pay-Day Loan Account. Applicant defaulted on this loan. He paid the debt in December 2022. This debt is resolved.  SOR  ¶  1.e.  Collection  Debt    on  an  Account.  Applicant  defaulted  on  this account, and it was referred to a collection agency. He paid this debt in March 2023. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.f. Past-Due  Debt  on  an  Insurance  Account. Applicant  paid  the  past due  amount in March 2023.  This debt  is resolved.   3 SOR ¶  1.g.  Past-Due Debt  on a Credit-Card Account. Applicant paid this past-due debt, and the account is presently in good standing. Applicant continues to use this credit card. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.h. Charged-Off Balance  on Vehicle Loan Following Involuntary Repossession. In November 2016, Applicant co-signed on a vehicle loan for his wife to have a car. When they separated, they reached an agreement that she would pay the loan for her vehicle. She defaulted on the loan after she had moved from State 3 to State 2  in  2018,  and  the  car  was  eventually  repossessed.  Applicant’s  wife  lives  with  her grandmother and was on public assistance in State 2 for at least a period. The record is silent as to whether she is presently employed. At the hearing, Applicant claimed that he was in contact with the creditor, though he admitted that he is reluctant to pay this debt voluntarily when he believes that the debt is owed by his wife. Once the marriage is finally terminated and the responsibility for the debt is resolved, he is willing to pay whatever his share of the debt may be. He has not, however, taken any steps to divorce his wife due to the cost of legal services. Applicant wrote in a post-hearing statement that he plans to seek mediation with his wife to have her take responsibility for the debt or to agree with him to split the debt. This debt is not resolved.  SOR ¶  1.i. Collection Debt  on a Cable-TV Account. Applicant failed to return cable equipment after he moved, and his account was referred to a collection agency. He returned the equipment. He was subsequently able to open a new account with the same cable service provider. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.j.  Collection Debt  on a Cable-TV Account. Applicant failed to pay the final balance on this account when he moved out of an apartment, and it was referred to a collection agency. He paid the balance on the account in November 2022. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.k. Unpaid Debt  of a Loan Account. Applicant opened this account when  he  was  serving  in  the  USMC.  He  defaulted  and  the  account  was  referred  to  a collection agency. He was unaware that he owed a balance on the account. Applicant paid the debt in November 2022. paid a balance due on the account in November 2022. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.l. Collection Debt  on a Utility Account. Applicant failed to pay the final bill on this account after he moved. He paid the account in March 2023. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶  1.m. Charged-Off Debt  on an Account. Applicant is unaware of the nature or history of this account. He paid it in March 2023. This debt is resolved.  