Applicant, 50, has worked for his current employer, a federal contracting company, since September 2014. He was initially granted access to classified information in March 1999.  On  his most  recent  application,  submitted  in  dated  July  2019,  he  disclosed  six alcohol-related criminal incidents for suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol. The  investigation revealed that he was  also stopped for traffic violations in April 2015, June 2018, and June 2019.  2 Applicant  admits  that  he  was  arrested  in  November  2008  , November 2009 , April 2011 , July 2013 ,  April  2015  ,  and  June  2018    for suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol. Applicant also admits that during each stop he refused to take a breathalyzer test, which resulted in his arrest. With the exception of the charges against Applicant after the July 2013 arrest, the criminal cases from the five  other arrests  were nolle prossed. In response to the  July 2013 charges, Applicant pleaded  guilty  to  driving  a  vehicle  while  impaired  by  alcohol  and  was  sentenced  to probation before judgment. Applicant also admits that he received a citation in December 2016 for having an open container of alcohol in his vehicle, which a police officer noticed while  admonishing  Applicant  for  a  parking  violation.    He received a fine, which he paid.  Applicant admits he received a citation in April 2015, in an incident separate from the  April  2015  DUI  arrest,  for  driving  on  a  suspended  license  –  the  charge  was  nolle processed.  He admits receiving a citation in January 2018 for driving nearly 30 miles per hour over the speed limit. He was fined.  He also admits that he received a third citation in June 2019  for driving over 20 miles per hour over the speed limit and driving on a suspended license. He was convicted of the speeding violation and received probation before judgment. The charge for driving on a suspended license was nolle prossed.   During each stop for suspicion of DUI, Applicant refused to take breathalyzer tests, because  he  did  not  believe  that  he  was  intoxicated.  He  also  wanted  to  “prove  his innocence” in court. He testified that he was also advised by his friends employed in law enforcement to refuse to provide a breath sample. He believed that the consumption of one beer would be enough to render a result above the legal limit. He testified that he was not aware that refusal to take a breathalyzer test could result in the suspension of his license. He claims that the two times he was cited for driving on a suspended license, he  was  unaware  of  the  suspension  because  he  still  had  his  driver’s  license  in  his possession.  Applicant testified that before all of the alleged alcohol-related driving incidents, he consumed  between  two  and  four  beers  while  socializing  with  friends,  usually  while watching football games. Each time he was stopped, he claims that it was for speeding, not  erratic  driving.  However,  on  two  occasions,  in  April  2015  and  June  2018,  he  was approached by police officers after sitting in his car on the side of the road. In the April 2015 incident, Applicant pulled off the road because he felt tired while driving after leaving a  friend’s  business  where  he  consumed  alcohol.  In  the  June  2018  incident,  Applicant pulled  over  because  he  started  feeling  unwell  while  driving  home  from  a  social  event where he had been consuming alcohol. He was less than five miles from home. The police officer approached  Applicant’s  vehicle because the car was partially blocking a lane of traffic. He does not believe that alcohol affected his ability to drive in either incident.  Applicant does not believe that he has a problem with alcohol. He has not been ordered by the court or advised by family members to take any alcohol education classes. 3 Nor has he taken any on his own. When asked about losing a job in 2010 because of attendance  issues,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  often  took  Mondays  off  during  football season. He denied needing the days off to recover after drinking too much, but because he was too tired after staying up late  watching football.  Applicant was terminated from another job in July 2013 for attendance issues. The termination occurred shortly after he was  arrested  for  DUI.  He  claims  that  his  termination  was  not  related  to  any  alcohol consumption issues, but that he frequently took time off to look for a higher paying job. He also admitted that after the June 2018 incident, he and his wife decided that it would be best if she accompanied him to future social gatherings. She does not drink and agreed to drive him.  Applicant’s state of residency enacted an informed consent law in 1977. Under the statute any person who drives or attempts to drive a motor vehicle on a highway or on any private property that issued by the public in general in the State is deemed to have consented to provide a breath or blood sample to determine alcohol concentration, if they are detained on a suspicion of driving or attempting to drive while under the influence of alcohol or while impaired by alcohol. Although a person cannot be forced to  provide a breath sample, they are advised by the detailing officer that failure to do so will result in a  suspension  of  their  driver’s  license  by  the  State’s  motor  vehicle  administration.  An officer is only directed to  confiscate  a  person’s driver’s license  if they are suspected  of operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol or impaired by alcohol in violation of an alcohol restriction order or if operating a commercial vehicle.  In April 2022, Applicant suffered a medical event that left him unable to drive or work for an indeterminate amount of time. Given his current medical condition, he cannot drink alcohol. While serious, Applicant’s medical condition could improve enough for him to resume his regular activities.  