Applicant is a 68-year-old married man with four adult children. A previous marriage from 1981 to 2015 ended in divorce. Applicant earned a GED in 1976, and is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, serving from 1976 to 1980. His discharge was honorable. Currently, he works for a federal government contractor as a systems administrator.  Between 1992 and 1994, Applicant molested his stepdaughter. The sexual abuse occurred when she was a young teenager and did not end until she left home to go to college.  These episodes of sex abuse occurred approximately 24 to 48 times.  Per Applicant, “while [he] did molest [his] then teenage daughter 28 years ago, it was through inappropriately touching her and having her inappropriately touch me, not the sexual molestation, as suggest[ed].”  Applicant’s  stepdaughter  did  not  report  the  abuse  while  a  child.  Shortly  after attending  therapy  as an  adult,  she  confronted  Applicant,  then  told  her  mother.  Shortly thereafter, in 2015, Applicant and his wife divorced.  Applicant contends that his stepdaughter has since forgiven him, and that he will [n]ever fall prey to [this conduct] again.”  He has never attended any behavioral counseling.  When confronted by an investigative agent in March 2020 about this conduct, he initially denied this activity occurred.  He did not disclose the activity until asked a third time. He lied about this conduct because he was embarrassed.  In  February  2012,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  after  testing positive for cocaine.  He denies that he has ever used cocaine and contends that the test result was unreliable because it was conducted at an unsanctioned health clinic out of the country.  Applicant was working out of the country at the time. There is no additional record evidence of any additional failed drug tests, nor is there any other evidence that Applicant may have used illegal drugs in the past. Applicant has approximately $58,000 in delinquent debt.  He attributes his financial problems to several months of unemployment between 2017 and 2018. He admits all of the financial debts alleged in the SOR but has done nothing to satisfy them. 