Applicant  is a  55-year-old  married  man  with  two adult  children.  He  has  been  married to  his current wife  since  2015. A  previous marriage  ended  in  divorce  in  2013.   Applicant earned  a  high  school diploma  in 1986  and  an  associate  degree  in 2006.  Applicant is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps, serving from 1986 to 1990.   He  was  discharged  honorably.  After  leaving  the  Marines,  he  joined  the  U.S.  State Department as a security officer until 1992.  That year, he joined the U.S. Border Patrol where he worked until his retirement in 2019.  While with the Border Patrol, he spearheaded an interrogation technique which over the years has become a national model.    Since  retiring,  Applicant  has  been  working  abroad  for  a  contractor performing  technical  service  work  on  non-intrusive  inspection  systems.    Since working at his current job, he has received excellent performance ratings.  In 2006, Applicant, while not on duty or in his work uniform, entered a grocery in a rural  part of  the  country  to  buy  beer. Although  Applicant  had  no  hard  evidence  of  any wrongdoing, he began questioning the grocery store clerk about his immigration status, his foreign  accent,  and  why  he  was  living  in  that  part  of  the  country.    These questions angered the clerk, prompting him to ask Applicant to leave the store. While this exchange was occurring, another store patron called the police.  During the tense  exchange  of  words,  Applicant  followed  the  clerk  behind  the  counter  and  put  his hands on him. The clerk then fell down, whereupon Applicant pulled his service weapon and pointed it at the clerk, claiming that the clerk had lunged for one of the knives on the counter.  One of the store patrons then stepped between Applicant and the clerk, prompting Applicant to place his weapon back in the holster.  This episode led to an agency investigation. The investigation revealed that after the episode Applicant had run queries on himself and the grocery store clerk in the Border Patrol database without authorization.  When confronted about the misuse of the database, Applicant offered conflicting stories.  3 When the investigation was concluded, its findings were submitted to the agency’s disciplinary review board. It charged Applicant with conduct unbecoming a border patrol agent,  lack  of  candor,  and  misuse  of  the  database  system,  and  it  recommended  his termination.  The first-level reviewing authority sustained the recommendation for termination.  On appeal, an arbitrator  sustained the charges of conduct unbecoming a border  patrol  agent  and  misuse  of  the  database,  and  lack  of  candor  with  respect  to questions about the database. In doing so, the hearing officer concluded that Applicant “had no operational reason [for initiating] a volatile and dangerous altercation.”  However, he concluded that removal was not a reasonable remedy.  Instead, the reviewing authority reduced the punishment to suspension of 180 days with restoration of payment that had been stopped after the termination.  In March 2010, Applicant while driving his marked Border Patrol vehicle, called local police to ask if they had a unit in his location because the motorist behind him was riding his bumper while traveling 80 miles per hour.  He told the police dispatcher that he wanted to pull the driver over and “chew her tail out,” and the dispatcher approved.  He then pulled the driver over. Immediately after the stop, the driver called Border Patrol and reported that Applicant was rude, irate, and made her fear for her safety.  Later that month, Applicant pulled over a Latino motorist whom he suspected was an illegal alien.  After questioning him, Applicant released him, concluding that he had no authority to interrogate him further.  Applicant’s employer, however, reprimanded him for not making a warrantless arrest, not asking the man for his name or driver’s license, and not promptly reporting the investigative stop to Applicant’s chain of command.  Later that year, the agency considered the motorist’s complaint, and the unrelated incident involving his release of the Latino driver without more intensive interrogation, and charged  Applicant  with  unprofessional  conduct,  consequently  removing  him  from employment, effective March 2011.  On appeal, the Merit Systems Protection Board  , in April 2012, sustained the charge of unprofessional conduct, with respect to the episode with the female driver, but characterized it as “a relatively minor infraction,” and reduced the punishment from termination to a 14-day suspension without pay, credited from the pay he did not receive while the appeal was pending.   In addition, the MSPB concluded the charge involving the Latino motorist was not sustained.  On November 2, 2012, Applicant was charged with failure to exercise due caution in the  operation  of  a  government-owned  vehicle  after  accidentally  backing  his  assigned vehicle  into  a  tree  while  exiting  a  parking  lot.    On  November  29,  2012, Applicant while on duty and in uniform went into a gun shop for personal reasons, and while inside the store questioned a customer, an Asian-American, about his immigration status.  He allegedly followed the person around the store for a half an hour.  Subsequently on December 26, 2013, the agency charged him with failure to exercise due caution for the car incident, conduct unbecoming an officer for the gun store 4 incident,  as  well  as  lack  of  candor,  and  misuse  of  information  systems  for  two  related matters, and fired him.  Applicant  subsequently  filed  a  grievance.    At  arbitration,  Applicant’s attorney characterized the proceedings as a witch hunt. The arbitrator agreed, emphatically rejecting the agency’s case, noting in his decision that Applicant’s employer was “out to get [him] no matter what.”  Moreover, the arbitrator concluded that the agency’s incident  report  of  the  gun  shop  episode  was  exaggerated,  admonishing  Applicant’s employer that “hyperboles, particularly when not verified, do nothing more than present a tainted  picture  of  the  event  and  inflame  management’s  perception.”   Ultimately on June 12, 2015, the arbitrator dismissed all the charges other than the one involving the accident with the government-owned vehicle and reduced the penalty from removal to a 30-day suspension. . Applicant was on paid administrative leave for six months while this case was being adjudicated.  In 2011, Applicant was selected to work as a lead advisor on border patrol control issues in a combat zone abroad.  He worked at this assignment through 2012. In 2016, Applicant was promoted to the position of temporary supervisor.   His duties included training other agents on how to properly conduct investigations.  He retired in  2018.    Between  1996  to  2005,  all  of  Applicant’s  performance  ratings  were outstanding.  In 2006, the Border Patrol agency’s evaluation system changed to “Pass/Fail.” From 2006 to 2018 when Applicant retired, he received passing evaluations. According to Applicant’s current team leader for the past year, he is “a vital part of [their] day-to-day operation,” and he has never had any reason to question his integrity or work ethic since Applicant has been working for him.  During  the  beginning  of  a  security  clearance  interview  in  July  2017,  Applicant refused to provide full and frank answers to questions. Instead, he referred the agent to his attorney and repeatedly interrupted her.  He did not want to talk about the issues involving past termination decisions because each decision had been reversed.  On July 12, 2017, he sent 16 unsolicited text messages to the investigator, contending that the investigation had “crossed the civil liability line,” and threatening litigation.  Applicant contends that he sent these texts out of frustration with the process.  In   July  2019,  the   DCSA   CAS  contacted  Applicant,  explained   the   information requested  was  relevant  and  material to  his security  clearance  determination,  and  gave  him another  opportunity  to   cooperate   with   the   investigation,   warning   that   continued   failure would  result  in   discontinuation   of   his   case.      On   December  2019,  Applicant completed  an  affidavit setting  forth  his intention  to  fully  discuss  the  relevant  information  with the  investigator. On  January 2020, he  again  contacted  DCSA  CAS,  apologized  for the lengthy delay in  responding  and explained  that  he  did not think there was any just  cause  to discuss  his past terminations  since  he  had  been  reinstated  after each  termination.    In   February  2021,  Applicant  answered   another  set  of  interrogatories.   He   provided comprehensive interrogatory responses  with  multiple  documents  attached.   5 During a personal subject interview in 2002, Applicant refused to answer questions about an alleged adverse incident and acknowledged the potential harm his refusal to offer details would have on the maintenance of his security clearance.  In 2005, Applicant’s employer transferred him to another part of the country. His wife stayed in their home with the children, refusing to move. For the next eight years, Applicant supported two households.  As the only breadwinner, Applicant’s finances became strained, and he gradually became reliant upon credit cards to pay bills.  In addition, Applicant’s marriage deteriorated, leading to a divorce in 2013.  In February 2018, Applicant filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy.  He converted this bankruptcy to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy in September 2018. The amount discharged is unclear from the record. Applicant did not file his federal income tax returns for 2018 and 2019 until August 2022.  According to a certified tax preparer whom he retained in 2019, and who testified, the delay occurred because of the length of time that it took to obtain an individual tax identification number  for his current wife, a citizen and resident of Kuwait who was in the process of becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen during this time. .  Applicant has filed his 2018 tax return, and is due a refund of $3,102 and he filed his 2019 federal tax bill and paid the amount due, totaling $459.  Applicant owes tax delinquencies for tax year 2014 and tax year 2015.  These debts were triggered after an audit of these tax years concluded that he erroneously claimed the foreign income exemption on his tax returns.  When the IRS  initially  recalculated  the  tax  debt,  it  concluded  that  Applicant  owed  an  additional $40,000 for tax years 2014 and 2015.   Applicant appealed this decision to a tax court, arguing that the foreign earned income exclusion applied because he worked abroad for both of those tax years.  Although he lost the appeal, he successfully negotiated a reduction in the balance.   Currently, he owes $4,529 for tax year 2014 and $15,924 for tax year 2015.  Three  weeks  before  the  hearing,  Applicant  made  two  payments  totaling  $500 towards the reduction of the tax delinquency.  In 2020, Applicant retained his current tax preparer.  B at 3) With the tax preparer’s help, he amended the 2014 and 2015 tax return, Also, the tax preparer helped him with his 2018 and 2019 tax returns to account the ITIN request for Applicant’s spouse.  The tax preparer attributes the delays in resolving the tax issues to incorrect information regarding  Applicant’s  employment  and  income,  and  correspondence  delays  that  were exacerbated  by  the  pandemic.    With  the  tax  preparer’s  assistance,  Applicant requested and was approved for the IRS Combat Zone exemption, which was extended to civilians working in combat zones as part of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 .  Per the tax preparer Applicant’s tax liabilities will be stayed so long as he 6 remains employed in this combat zone, and he will get 180 days to resolve his income tax problems once he leaves the combat zone.  Recently, Applicant received a $20,000 refund for an overpayment on his 2022 tax return.  Currently, Applicant earns $140,000 per year, he saves $500 monthly; he has a savings account balance of between $5,000 and $6,000; and he receives retirement pension payments.  Applicant’s current wife is a citizen and resident of Kuwait. She spent the majority of her childhood living in the United Kingdom.  Applicant met her through an online dating  app  in  2014,  and  they  married  in  2015.    She  is  the  head  of  the department for the Kuwait Ministry of Health.  Applicant’s wife has been a naturalized U.S. citizen since August 2022.  Applicant is living in Kuwait with his wife. Hs goal is to move back to the U.S. with his wife in the next two to three years.  Applicant’s father-in-law is deceased. His mother-in-law, a citizen and resident of Kuwait, is a homemaker.  Applicant sees her approximately once per week. Applicant is not particularly fond  of his siblings-in-law, characterizing  them  as “limp wristed, sheltered,  and  entitled.”    Applicant’s brother-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident of Kuwait. He is a  retired  oil  company executive. Applicant does not interact  with  him.    Applicant  has   three   sisters-in-law.    Two   of  them   work  for  government ministries.    Applicant  talks  with   the   two   who   work  for  government  ministries approximately once  per week.   He  does  not interact  with  his  third sister-in-law.  Kuwait  and  the  United  States  have  enjoyed  a  long  history  of  friendship  and cooperation, “rooted in shared values, democratic traditions, and institutional relationships.”   Kuwait  is  an  important  partner  in  U.S.  counterterrorism  efforts.  The  United States is one of Kuwait’s largest suppliers of goods and services, and Kuwait is one of the United States’ largest markets in the Middle East.  