Applicant is a 53-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant  married  in  August  1998  and  divorced  in  August  2007.    He remarried in  July 2008 and  divorced  in  December 2018.  He has three  children from  this  marriage.    He  married  for the  third  time  in  August  2019  and  has  two stepchildren  from  this  marriage.    Applicant  attended  college  classes  at  various institutions  between  January  1999  and  August  2001  without  earning  a  degree  or diploma.  He enlisted in the Air Force in March 1992 and served 12-plus years of active duty before receiving a general discharge under honorable conditions in October 2004.   Between  2010  and  2017,  he  worked  for  other employers. As a civilian, he has held a security clearance since June 2006.  Applicant’s finances Citing  financial  difficulties  associated  with  his  divorce  from  his  second  wife  in 2018,  and  improvident  spending  by  his  first  wife,  Applicant  accumulated  a  number  of delinquent  accounts    between  2013  and  2019,  exceeding  $40,000  in  the aggregate.  The  SOR-listed  debts  are  comprised  of  the  following:  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  ; 1.b ;  1.c  ;  1.d  . While   Applicant  has  made   sporadic  payment  progress  with   several  of  his  SOR creditors,  he   has   failed   to   follow   through   with   documented   good   faith   payments  and payment  plans  with  his creditors  since  his debts became  delinquent.    Promised   receipts   of   payments  to   these   creditors  never  materialized.   Claiming   to have   a   payment   agreement   with   SOR   creditor  1.d,   the   documentation   supplied   by applicant  does   not  match   any  of  the   creditor   information   covered   in  his  credit  reports. Compare the  information  covered  in  AE  A  with  the  compiled  credit bureau  data  in  GEs 4-5. Based  on  the  documentation  furnished  by  Applicant,  none  of  the  delinquent debts covered by the SOR can be credited to Applicant as either favorably resolved or 3 in  the  process  of  being  favorably  resolved.  Each  of  Applicant’s  listed  SOR  accounts remain in delinquent status. Applicant’s  arrest, Air Force disciplinary   infractions,  and  PSI omissions Applicant’s 2018  arrest  and  multiple  disciplinary  infractions  over the  course  of his Air  Force  career are considerable. While  in the  Air  Force, Applicant committed  multiple disciplinary infractions,  for which  he  received  NJP. They are documented   as follows: a false official statement with  intent to  deceive in November 2021, for which  he  received  a reduction   in  grade;   engagement  in   a   sexual  relationship   with   a   subordinate   between July  and   August  2002,  for   which   he   received   a   reduction   in   grade   and   forfeitures  of $500   pay  per  month   for  two   months  and   45   days  of  extra   duty;   unlawful   choking   an individual  with   his  hands,  for  which   he   received   a   reduction   in   grade   and   45   days  of extra   duty;   and   failure   to   pay   debts  owed   the   Air   Force  for  misuse   of   a   Government credit card in March 2004, for which  he received  a letter of reprimand.GE  6) Records  document  that  in  April  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with public  lewdness  for  masturbating  on  a  public  walking  trail  . Appearing in court to answer the charges, he pleaded guilty and received six-months of deferred adjudication and a fine o $429.  In  a  September  2021  PSI  with  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  ,  Applicant  was  asked  to  describe  the  incident  involving  his  2018 public  lewdness  arrest  and  charge.    Responding  to  the  investigator’s  inquiry, Applicant  characterized  the  charge  as  limited  to  public  urination.    In  his  own account  of  the  incident,  he  failed  to  disclose  the  charged  conduct  and  ensuing  guilty plea covering his masturbating in public. Applicant’s withholding of material information about the details of his arrest and conviction from the investigatory constituted knowing and  willful  withholding  of  material  facts  about  his  arrest,  charges,  and  ensuing  guilty plea.  