In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted all of the allegations, with explanations. His admissions are adopted as findings of fact. After a review of the pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is a  49-year-old  employee  of a  federal  contractor  working  as a  simulation technician  since  February  2020. He  holds an  associate  degree  and  is a  few hours away from  earning  his bachelor’s degree. He  is  married  for the  third  time  .  He has three  children  from  his first marriage  and  three  stepchildren from  his current  marriage.  He pays  $900  monthly in  child  support  for  his youngest  child, age  16, from his first marriage.  Applicant served in the U.S Army for 25 years. In February 2020, he was medically retired  as  a  master  sergeant    with  an  honorable  discharge.  During  his  years  of service, he deployed four times to combat areas. As a result of injuries during combat, he received a 100 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs . In June  2019,  he  was  tried  at  a  Special  Court-Martial  for  offenses  described  below.  He pleaded guilty and was sentenced by a military judge to four months confinement and a reduction to the grade of E-7. His one-grade reduction was not approved by the convening authority. He also made restitution in the approximate amount of $9,000.  Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged four delinquent accounts  totaling approximately $27,774. The debts are established by credit reports from February 2017 and August 2021; Applicant’s personal subject interview  with an investigator in November 2021; and his SOR response admissions .  Under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant was tried at an Army Special Court-Martial  for  violations  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice    including disobeying a superior officer, making a false official statement, and larceny. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to four months confinement, and a reduction in grade to E-7.  Financial Considerations Applicant testified that he did not pay any of the SOR debts  and stated they no longer appear on his credit report because they aged off. During his background interview 2 in November 2021, he was confronted with the four SOR debts and acknowledged them. He told the investigator that he would “take all necessary steps to resolve these delinquent accounts.”  He  failed  to  present  any  evidence  that  he  has  done  so.  He  stated  that  his contentious divorce from his first wife, which encompassed the years 2014-2016, caused him great financial strain resulting in these delinquencies. These debts were not resolved by Appellant.  Applicant testified that his current finances are in good shape. He stated he has no new delinquencies. His July 2023 credit report shows one collection account for $456, which had a date of last activity in September 2016 .  Appellant’s  and  his current  wife’s monthly  take-home  pay  total approximately $14,600.  He  did  not  give  an estimate of his monthly expenses during his testimony. During his background interview, he told the investigator that he had approximately $6,500 left over at the end of the month which he would use to begin paying his delinquent debts. He presented no evidence that he has done this.  Personal Conduct Applicant admitted to the conduct for which he was tried and convicted at an Army Special  Court-Martial in  July 2019.  Applicant was  the  staff noncommissioned  officer in charge  of a college ROTC detachment. In that role, he had access to and control over the unit’s funds and accounts generated through fund raising. At the time, he was geographically  separated from his  first  wife and three children,  who lived  in  a different state . His wife filed for divorce and Applicant was required to travel to State A for the divorce proceedings and to see his daughters. He did not have the personal funds to do this, so he decided to take money from the ROTC accounts. A subsequent Army investigation determined that he deposited 33 checks from three ROTC accounts into his personal account from about 2013 to 2017. When questioned by investigators, he claimed he had no knowledge of the missing ROTC funds and denied any wrongdoing.   Later,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  disobeying  a  superior  officer,  larceny,  and making  a  false  official statement.  He was  sentenced as  indicated above.  He  fully  paid restitution in the amount of $9,050 within the time allowed. He testified that he understood that his actions were a breach of his integrity and the trust reposed in him based upon his military status.  Appellant testified that he has had no further employment misconduct since this incident, nor has he had any subsequent arrests by law enforcement. His record shows that in 1994, when he was a private second-class, he was apprehended for shoplifting from  an  Army  and  Air  Force  Exchange  facility.  His  exchange  privilege  card  was confiscated, and he was turned over to his unit. No further information was included .  3 Character Evidence  and Other Possible Mitigation Applicant  presented  character  letters  from  two  coworkers  and  a  supervisor.  All three  attested  to his trustworthiness,  loyalty, integrity,  and  reliability.  All recommended that he continue to have access to classified information.  Applicant  testified  that  he  teaches  firearms  safety  as  an  additional  job.  He  also qualified  for  a  Federal  Firearms  License  ,  which  he  claimed  required  an  FBI background check.  Applicant received a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder  diagnosis in 2014. His PTSD is related to events that transpired during his combat deployments.  