Applicant is 55 years old and divorced from her second husband. She has a high school diploma and is currently attending college. She has been employed by a defense contractor  since  2005  and  is  currently  a  senior  analyst.  She  seeks  to  retain  national security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her  employment.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance therefore  potentially  unreliable, because  she untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.  Applicant admitted all the allegations under this guideline with explanations. financially  overextended  and is The SOR specifically alleged that Applicant has seven debts that were charged- off, or in collection, in the total amount of approximately $46,521.  The existence and amount of these debts is supported by Applicant’s admissions in her Answer. They are also confirmed by credit reports submitted by the Government dated April 1, 2021; February 4, 2022; October 24, 2022; February 22, 2023; and June 13, 2023.  The existence of all the debts is also supported by  Applicant’s  answers  during  an  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of Personnel Management  on August 9, 2022.  Applicant stated that her financial difficulties were due to having to take care of her ailing mother, as well as other family-related emergencies. Her financial issues came to 2 a head in approximately 2015 and she has not been able to resolve them since that time.  Applicant  has  worked   with   two   debt   resolution   firms   .  She worked  with  DRF 1  starting  in  2017  or 2018, as shown  by documentation  from  DRF 1 provided   by  Applicant.   She   was  paying   them   approximately  $433   a   month   to   help  her resolve  her  debts.  The   documentation   did  not  show  the   debts  they  were   paying   or whether  Applicant   successfully  completed   the   program.   She   testified   that   she   had stopped  using  DRF 1  in  either 2020  or  2021.  Government Exhibit 8  does show several paid charge offs  during the  time she was using DRF  1.  Applicant began  working  with  DRF 2  in August 2022. She  was  still  working  with them   at  the   date   of  the   hearing.  Documentation   from   DRF  2,   provided   by  Applicant, indicates  that  she   is  paying   $468   a   month   to   them   to   help  resolve  her  debts.  The documentation  dated  July 26, 2023, states  that six accounts are enrolled, one  of  which has a  settlement agreement in place. That particular account is not identified. In  addition, the  partial account numbers of the  six accounts shown  do  not  match  any of those  of the allegations in the  SOR.  It  is noted  that some  of the  DRF 2  accounts  are reflected  in the Government’s credit reports.   Applicant testified that she is unhappy with the service she is receiving from DRF 2 and may attempt to resolve her debts on her own.  The current status of the debts is as follows: 1.a. Applicant admitted owing Creditor A $19,980 for account ending 2288. This debt was charged off, as confirmed by the latest credit report in the record. This debt does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.  1.b. Applicant admitted owing Creditor A $11,992 for account ending 2582. This debt was charged off, as confirmed by the latest credit report in the record. This debt does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.  1.c.   Applicant  admitted  owing  Creditor  C  $4,096  for  account  ending  8058.  This debt was shown as charged off with a balance owing on the credit report dated October 24, 2022. The credit reports dated February 22, 2023; and June 13, 2023, show the debt with no past-due amount and the statement, “Consumer disputes after resolution.” This debt does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. However, based on the existing record I find there is insufficient evidence to show Applicant continues to owe this debt. 3 This allegation is found for Applicant.  1.d.  Applicant  admitted  owing  Creditor  D  $3,309  for  account  ending  3198.  This debt was charged off, as confirmed by the latest credit report in the record. This debt does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.  1.e.  Applicant  admitted  owing  Creditor  E  $2,812  for  account  ending  5382.  This past-due debt appears in the October 24, 2022 credit report with the annotation, “Account information  disputed  by  consumer.”  This  debt  does  not  appear  in  the  latest  two  credit reports in the record. This debt also does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. However,  based  on  the  existing  record  I  find  there  is  insufficient  evidence  to  show Applicant continues to owe this debt. This allegation is found for Applicant.  1.f.  Applicant  admitted  owing  Creditor  F  $2,447  for  account  ending  9331.  This charged-off account appears on the February 22, 2023 credit report with the annotation, “Consumer disputes after resolution.” This debt does not appear in the latest credit report in the record. This debt also does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. However, based  on  the  existing  record  I  find  there  is  insufficient  evidence  to  show  Applicant continues to owe this debt. This allegation is found for Applicant.  1.g.  Applicant  admitted  owing  Creditor  G  $1,885  for  account  ending  1072.  This debt was charged off, as confirmed by the latest credit report in the record. This debt does not appear in the documentation from DRF 2. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.  Applicant testified that her current financial situation is tight. She does not have much  discretionary  income.  Applicant  realizes  her  finances  can  affect  her  national security  eligibility  but  has  not  yet  been  in  a  position  to  reduce  or pay  off  her  past-due indebtedness. It is noted that Applicant was often confused during her testimony as to the actual status of her debts.  Paragraph 2  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  she has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows poor judgment, untrustworthiness  or unreliability. Applicant admitted the factual allegations under this guideline. However, she denied having an intent to falsify the questionnaire. Applicant filled  out her  e-QIP  on  October 25, 2021. Section  26  of that questionnaire concerns Applicant’s financial situation. Several subsections ask whether, within seven 4 years of filling out the questionnaire, Applicant had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency; or had an account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to  pay  as  agreed?  Applicant  answered  both  questions,  “No.”  As  stated,  Applicant  had past-due debts, so this was an incorrect answer to a relevant question about her financial situation.  Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator on August 9, 2022. When first questioned about delinquent debts, “Subject [Applicant] indicated she is currently up to  date  on  all  her  financial  obligations.”  When  confronted  with  the  fact  she  had delinquencies  she  stated  she  was  working  with  DRF  1.  She  further  stated  that  she believed DRF 1 had resolved all of her debts. This was incorrect.  Applicant subsequently stated in her Answer: I deny  that I attempt[ed]  to  falsify information.  I provided  information  to  the best  of  my  ability  the   debts  in  questioned   [sic]  happened   in  2015-2016 timeframe, which  is outside  of seven-year scope. I was working  with  a  debt consolidation   [service]   to   settle  these   outstanding   debts.   I  was  under  the impression   that once   this was  initiated   all   negative   credit  reporting  would cease. In  her testimony, Applicant expanded on these  statements.  She  stated that  she had  a  good-faith  belief  that  working  with  DRF  1  and  DRF  2  meant  that  she  was  not delinquent on the debts since she was agreeing to the revised payments and payment plans in a legal and above-board way.  Mitigation Applicant  submitted  documentation  showing  she  is  a  respected  person  and employee. Her supervisor stated, “I know her to be trustworthy with program information and customer hardware and documentation.”  