In  Applicant’s SOR  response,  she  admitted the SOR  allegation  in ¶  1.a.   She  also  provided  mitigating  information.  She  provided  a  detailed  description  of  her marijuana  use  and  employment  history.  She  expressed  her  regret  and  remorse concerning his marijuana use. Her admissions and mitigating information are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 34-year-old building operations controller, who has been employed by a government contractor since December 2022.  In 2013, she received her General Education Diploma .  In 2015, she received an associate degree of science specializing in automotive mechanics.  She has never married, and she has a 16-year-old son.  She has not served in the military.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant used and purchased marijuana with varying frequency from about July 2005 to about September 2022. Applicant first used marijuana when she was 16 years old.  She stopped using marijuana from the age of 17 until she was about 21.  In May and July 2011, the police went to Applicant’s residence on two occasions in 2011 because of alcohol-related altercations Applicant had with her boyfriend.  She was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol  in 2012.  She enrolled in a drug and alcohol counseling program  in 2012, and her first drug tests were positive for marijuana use.   She received deferred adjudication for her DUI.  Applicant used  marijuana  about every four months  around  2012  or 2013.   She  stopped  using  marijuana  from  2013  to  2016.  She  was fired  from  three jobs  from   2015   to   2018;  however,  marijuana   use   was  not  a   contributing   cause   of  the terminations.    In  2019  to  2020,  she  used  marijuana  about  once  a  week,  and  in 2 2020,  she  reduced  her  marijuana  usage.    She  did  not  use  marijuana  from December 2020 to September 2022.  In  June  2022, Applicant was granted, and  in  July 2022, she  was informed  that she was granted  a  security  clearance.   Her September 13,  2022 Office  of  Personnel Management   summary  states  that  in  response  to  a  question about her future marijuana  use,  Applicant said, “[She] intends  to  smoke  marijuana  on  a rare occasion.”  Applicant said her comment to  the  OPM  investigator was misconstrued  and  misunderstood, and  the  summary should have  said in the  past she smoked  marijuana  on  a  rare occasion.  She  used  marijuana  on  September 10, 2022, which  was one  week before her OPM  interview.  She only took one  puff  on  the  marijuana  cigarette, and  she  instantly regretted  her marijuana use.  The  person  who  gave  her the  marijuana  left  the  state  where  she  lives.    She disclosed the  September 2022 marijuana use to the OPM investigator.  Applicant did not use any illegal drugs after September 2022.  She ended her relationship and associations with persons who she knows to be marijuana users.  The only illegal drug she has used is marijuana.  Applicant  “provid[ed]  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.”  Applicant  emphasized  that  she  voluntarily  reported  her  involvement  with marijuana; her marijuana use is not recent; her marijuana use was not a pattern; she did not have any drug paraphernalia; and she does not intend to use marijuana in the future.  Character Evidence Applicant  provided  nine  character  statements  including  from  a  project  leader, foreman,  former  supervisor,  facility  security  officer,  and  other  coworkers.    The general  sense  of  her  character  statements  is  that  Applicant  is  diligent,  friendly,  family oriented,  dedicated,  and  innovative.    She  contributes  to  the  successes  of  her employers. A physician assistant who has treated her for ten years indicated she is not addicted  to  marijuana;  she  is  psychologically  stable;  and  her  marijuana  use  was  very limited and primarily when she was a teenager.  Her character evidence supports approval of her access to classified information. 