In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.  He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 39-year-old corporate officer for a company, which provides highly technical engineering products and services to DOD.  In 2002, he graduated from  high  school.    In  2006,  he  was  awarded  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  business administration with majors in marketing and management of human resources.  In 2010,  he  was  awarded  a  master’s  degree  in  business  administration  .    In 2016, he was awarded a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering technologies, and in 2020, he received an associate degree in applied science.  He has not served in the military.  In 2014, he married, and his children are ages 2 and 5.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse  and Personal Conduct SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant used and purchased marijuana with varying frequency from  about  September  2001  to  about  February  2022.  He  used  marijuana  three  to  five times a week at the time he completed his March 14, 2022 SCA.  From 2011 to 2022, he used marijuana about 500 times.   He purchases marijuana  in a state where possession and use are legal.  Applicant uses a vape and edibles to consume marijuana.  He most recently used marijuana on August 5, 2023, which was five days before his hearing.  He uses marijuana to help relieve stress.  He believes marijuana use should be an “inalienable right” because the benefits  of  marijuana  use  far  outweigh  the  negatives.    He  acknowledged marijuana possession was illegal under federal law.  Applicant was honest about his marijuana involvement. He did not test positive on a urinalysis test, and he does not have any drug-related arrests. 2 SOR ¶ 1.b alleges he intends to continue to use marijuana in the future. Applicant said at his hearing that he intends to continue to consume marijuana.  He has not attended any therapy or counseling for abuse of marijuana.  Even if he receives a security clearance, he would probably continue to use marijuana.  Department  Counsel  moved  to  amend  the  SOR  to  allege  that  Applicant  used marijuana from February 2022 to at least August 5, 2023.  Applicant did not object, and I granted the motion.  Applicant did not believe his marijuana use was relevant in a determination of his trustworthiness.  His marijuana use cannot be used to coerce or bribe him to obtain classified or sensitive information.  