Applicant is 54 years old and married for the second time. He is employed as a fuel  truck  driver  by  a  defense  contractor  and  requires  a  finding  of  trustworthiness  in connection with his employment.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he  has  failed  to  meet  his  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. He admitted all the allegations in the SOR with explanations. He also submitted additional information to support the granting of national security eligibility. Applicant’s  financial  issues  can  be  divided  into  four  distinct  areas:  state  and Federal income tax issues ; 1999 bankruptcy and related debts ;  2009  bankruptcy  and  related  debts  ;  and  current delinquent debts . The allegations will be discussed in the above order. INCOME TAX ISSUES With regard to his tax issues as described below, Applicant retained an income tax advocate firm  in 2018 to assist him in resolving all of his tax issues. He remained a client of ITA up to the date of the hearing. He stated, “I hired them to take care of all my tax issues from way back when to present.” He provided them with a power of attorney to resolve his tax issues with the IRS. He admitted that the ITA’s communications with him have  been  sporadic  and  not  very  revealing.   2 1.a. Applicant admitted that he had failed to file his 2010 Federal income tax return in  a  timely  fashion.  Documentation  from  the  IRS  shows  that  he  filed  this  return  on December 19, 2011. While the return was delinquent, it was successfully filed over ten years ago. This allegation is found for Applicant.  1.b. Applicant admitted that he had failed to file his state 2010 tax return in a timely fashion. As stated, he had hired ITA to resolve his state tax issues as well. He further testified that he believed the ITA had filed this tax return. He stated that he had provided a copy of this tax return to the Government. No corroborating evidence was contained in the evidence provided to me by either party.  1.c. Applicant admitted that he had a Federal tax lien entered against him in 2012 in  the  amount  of  $15,012.  He  testified  that  his  total  tax  liability  to  the  IRS  was approximately  $28,000.  The  ITA  was  working  with  the  IRS  and  filed  an  Offer  In Compromise in February 2021. No information was given as to whether the Offer was accepted.  1.d. Applicant admitted  that  he  had a  state  tax  lien  entered  against  him  in 2013  in the  amount of $1,353. This lien  was released  in 2016. He testified  that to  the  best of his knowledge  he  did  not owe any money for his  state  taxes.  1.e.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  a  state  tax  lien  entered  against  him  in September 2008 in the amount of $1,598. This lien was released in December 2008. As stated, he testified that to the best of his knowledge he did not owe any  money for his state taxes.  It is noted that Applicant was very vague about his tax situation in general. He had a hard time remembering dates and events.  1999 BANKRUPTCY AND RELATED DEBTS 1.i. Applicant admitted  filing  a  Chapter 7  bankruptcy petition  on  March  8, 1999. He received   a  discharge   in   bankruptcy of  all   of his dischargeable   debts  in  June  1999.  He stated  that this bankruptcy was brought about because  of his divorce  from  his first wife  in 1998.  1.j.  Applicant  admitted  having  a  judgment  entered  against  him  for  a  delinquent medical debt in the amount of $810. This judgment is not enforceable under the terms of Applicant’s discharge in bankruptcy. He has not made any payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt.  3 1.k.  Applicant  admitted  having  a  judgment  entered  against  him  for  a  delinquent veterinary debt in the amount of $144. This judgment is not enforceable under the terms of Applicant’s discharge in bankruptcy. He has not made any payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt.  1.n.  Applicant  admitted  having a  judgment entered  against  him  for a  delinquent debt  in  the  amount  of  $1,268.  This  judgment  is  not  enforceable  under  the  terms  of Applicant’s discharge in bankruptcy. He has not made any payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt.  2009 BANKRUPTCY AND RELATED DEBTS 1.h. Applicant admitted filing a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition on May 19, 2009. He received a discharge in bankruptcy of all of his dischargeable debts on September 21, 2009. He stated that he did not recall why he filed bankruptcy, but stated he had many medical debts. Applicant submitted his 2009 bankruptcy petition and related schedules.  Schedule F of the petition sets forth Creditors Holding Unsecured Nonpriority  Claims  in  the  amount  of  $31,508.  Many  of  them  are  medical  debts.  1.l. Applicant admitted having a judgment entered against him for a delinquent car loan  debt  in the amount  of $550.  This judgment  is not enforceable  under the  terms  of Applicant’s discharge in bankruptcy. He has not made any payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt.  1.m. Applicant admitted having a judgment entered against him for a delinquent debt  in  the  amount  of  $700.  This  judgment  is  not  enforceable  under  the  terms  of Applicant’s discharge in bankruptcy. He has not made any payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt.  CURRENT DELINQUENT DEBTS 1.f. Applicant admitted having a judgment entered against him in January 2018 for a delinquent vehicle debt in the amount of $6,800. He stated that he had been making payments on the judgment but had to stop due to medical issues. He further stated that he had reduced the debt to $1,500. He stated he intends to restart payments soon. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.  1.g. Applicant admitted having a judgment entered against him in February 2012 for  a  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  in  the  amount  of  $806.  He  has  recently contacted the credit union, which stated that Applicant’s debt is now $2,800 and must be paid in full. Applicant stated he intends to restart payments soon. No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.   4 1.o.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of $737.  He  has  not  made  any  recent  payments  on  this  debt  and  has  no  plans  to  make payments on this debt. It is not resolved.  1.p.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of $664.  He  has  not  made  any  recent  payments  on  this  debt  and  has  no  plans  to  make payments on this debt. It is not resolved.  1.q.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of $615.  He  has  not  made  any  recent  payments  on  this  debt  and  has  no  plans  to  make payments on this debt. It is not resolved.  1.r. Applicant admitted owing a jewelry store for a delinquent debt in the amount of  $1,462.  Subsequent  to  the  hearing he  made a  payment  of  $50 on  this account.  He intends  to  continue  making  payments  on  this  account.   1.s.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of $300, but stated in his Answer he had repaid some of it. The credit report from June 2019 indicates this account was “purchased by another lender,” and, “transferred or sold.” That credit  report  stated  there  was  no  balance  and  that  the  account  was  closed.  The  most recent credit report in the record, from March 2023, states there is no past due or charge off amount on this account. Based on the current state of the record, I find this debt has not  been  proved.  The  allegation  is  found  for  Applicant.   1.t. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $1,499 for a delinquent mobile telephone bill. He testified that this bill is in error, and the creditor admits it is an error, but they refuse to resolve it. He has taken no steps to dispute this debt with the credit reporting agencies. This debt appears on the June 2019 credit report, but does not appear in the March 2023 credit  report.  Based  on  the  available  record  I  find  this  debt  has  not  been  resolved.  1.u. Applicant admitted owing a water district for a delinquent debt in the amount of $346. He has not made any recent payments on this debt and has no plans to make payments on this debt. It is not resolved.  1.v and  1.w. Applicant admitted owing two past-due medical accounts to a hospital in  the  amounts  of  $4,785  and  $1,016.  Subsequent  to  the  hearing  he  made  a  single payment  to  the  hospital  in  the  amount  of  $20.   1.x.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of $629.  He  stated  that  he  believed  he  had  paid  this  debt  off,  but  he  had  no  supporting documentation. It is not resolved.  5 Applicant  stated  that  many  of  his  financial  issues  were  related  to  a  number  of surgeries that he has had over the years. He was often on disability and his income was reduced. However, his knowledge of his financial situation and the impact of his being on disability status on his finances was often vague and contradictory.  MITIGATION Applicant submitted a letter from his manager. The writer states, “[Applicant] is a valuable asset to the company.”  