In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d,  and  1.f,  and  he  denied  the  remaining  SOR  allegations.    He  admitted  the allegations in the Amended SOR. He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  maintenance  technician  who  has  worked  for  federal contractors since 2009.  In 1991, he graduated from high school.   In  2005,  he  completed  an  apprenticeship.    From  2017  to  2020,  he  was  self- employed in addition to his employment by a contractor.  He has not served in the military.  His resume and biography provide additional details about his background and professional experience.  For  many  years,  Applicant  was  an  elite  athlete  who  competed  in  international competitions on behalf of the United States.  As part of his sports career, he  met  the  President and  First  Lady  at  the  White  House.    He  ended  his competition in the sport three years ago.  In 2002, Applicant married, and in 2015, he was divorced.  One of his children was born in 2002, and the other five children were born in 2006 .  He has held a security clearance since 2009.  He 2 has had access to a military base; however, he never had access to classified information.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse and Criminal Conduct Applicant said he  does  not currently use  illegal drugs.  He said he  ended  his use  of illegal drugs  when  he  was arrested  for driving  under the influence of alcohol  in 2019.   He first used  marijuana  around 1994 or 1995.  In  March 1997, he  was  arrested  for  possession  of drug  paraphernalia.     His  first  driving   under  the   influence   of  alcohol  arrest  was   in   1998.     His driver’s license  was suspended  for two  years.  In  2000, he  received  a  ticket for driving  with  a  suspended  driver’s license.  In  2002, he  was arrested  for DUI,  and he  pleaded  guilty to  negligent driving.  He said he  only used  marijuana  once before 2005.  Multiple  complaints and  allegations were  made  against  Applicant from   2008   to   2016   from   a  neighbor,  church  members,   and   family  members   about  his treatment of his former wife, children, or both;  however, none  of  the  complaints resulted in  convictions.    He  said   he   could  not  remember  half   of  his  arrests  and   “the years all  run  together.”    As  to  those  making  complaints  about  him,  he  said  “They’re cop callers. They call them all the time  for nothing.”  Applicant had difficulty remembering dates of events and periods of sobriety. He said,  “I have  no  recollection  of what year was what.  The  years, they’re  written  down.  I could look at it and read them and know them. But that’s how I’d have to do it. If I’m just picking it out of the air, out of the sky and trying to remember, I have no . . . recollection.”  The years were  “just a blur” to him.  He said the SCAs are a good source for dates of events.  SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying  frequency  from about April 2005 to about May 2020. He occasionally used marijuana during these timeframes.  When he was in international sports competitions, he refrained from marijuana use for extended periods of times, sometimes for five to seven years.  He said his actual marijuana usage  was “very minimal.”   A June 1, 2017 Chemical Dependency Assessment Summary  states Applicant “reports smoking marijuana for the first time at age 18. Recent use is described as a few puffs three times a week. His last reported use was February 2017.”  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant used methamphetamine with varying frequency from about April 2005 to about May 2020.  After his divorce in 2015, he was involved with a woman  who  introduced  him  to  methamphetamine.    He  said  he  used methamphetamine about two or three times.  He said the last time he used methamphetamine was around the 2019 DUI arrest when methamphetamine were found in  his  pocket.    He  does  not  associate  with  the  woman  who  gave  him methamphetamine.  SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant  used  cocaine  with  varying  frequency  from  about December 1993 to about December 1996. He admitted the alleged cocaine usage, and said he  was not using cocaine  “with  any frequency.”  He has not used 3 cocaine after 1996.  A June 1, 2017 CDAS states Applicant “reports occasional snorting cocaine in his 30’s.”  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant was arrested in about September 2020 and charged with DUI. SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant tested positive on a urinalysis test in about May 2020 for marijuana, methamphetamine, and amphetamine. Department Counsel moved to withdraw SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e because  more accurate  information was contained in Amended SOR ¶ 2.b.  Applicant did not object, and I granted the motion.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  Applicant  used  amphetamine,  methamphetamine,  and marijuana from about January 2018 to about May 2019 while granted access to classified information.  He  admitted  the  SOR  allegation,  and  he  said,  “I’m  not  an  everyday  every month  user.  I  was  hanging  around  the  wrong  person  and  made  bad  choices  on  two occasions.  SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  Applicant  received  alcohol  and  drug  counseling  from  about September 2020, and he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder in early remission and cannabis  use  disorder  in  early  remission.    He  received  inpatient treatment for five or six weeks.  Applicant provided urine samples on September 15, 2020, and August 25, 2023, which  tested  negative  for  the  use  of  illegal  drugs;  however,  he  may  have  received advance  notice  of  the  tests.  There  was  no  evidence  presented  about  the  detection windows  for  use  of  marijuana  and  methamphetamine  related  to  these  two  drug  tests.  SOR ¶ 2.a alleges Applicant engaged in criminal conduct as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f. He is not currently attending drug or alcohol counseling or therapy.  Amended SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that on or about May 20, 2019, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI. “The blood test taken incident to [his] arrest revealed the presence of tetrahydrocannabinol , methamphetamine, and amphetamine[s]. [He] pled guilty to a lesser offense and was placed on probation for two years.”  The police report for the May 20, 2019 arrest states that the police officer noticed the smell of marijuana emanating from Applicant’s vehicle; Applicant was not alone in the vehicle; he asked Applicant when he last smoke marijuana; and Applicant told the police officer that he “ha[d] a few hits from a joint” about five hours earlier.  Applicant said  he  had  marijuana  inside  the  vehicle.    The  police  officer  asked  Applicant  how often he smoked marijuana, and Applicant initially said he smoked weekly, and then he clarified,  “he  smoked  nightly  before  bed.”    The  police  report  does  not  indicate marijuana was found in his vehicle.  A September 2, 2020 progress note from his drug and alcohol treatment, states that Applicant said he “smokes nightly” and “started out smoking weed on weekends then 4 smokes before bedtime.”  He also indicated he stopped using marijuana.  The treatment summary states: [Applicant]  reports  smoking  marijuana  for  the  first  time  at  age  18,  and became  a  regular  user  at  age  20  when  he  would  use  cannabis  on weekends. He reports his cannabis use to have decreased in the past  10 years. His last reported use was in May 2019 when he would occasionally use cannabis at nighttime for relaxing.  Applicant  agreed the  May  20,  2019  blood test  results  reflected  THC, methamphetamine, and amphetamines.  He tried some drugs shortly before the arrest.  He was unsure of the disposition of the charges or allegations.  After the successful completion of probation and an eight-hour defensive driving course, the DUI charge was reduced to negligent driving.  Amended SOR ¶ 2.c alleges on about March 23, 2017, Applicant was “arrested for and charged with two counts of Domestic Violence Assault, 4th degree. [He] entered into a Pre-Trial Diversion Agreement.” Applicant’s children called their mother and complained that Applicant was assaulting them.  His former spouse and her boyfriend arrived, and a physical altercation between Applicant and the boyfriend of his former  spouse  and  Applicant’s  former  spouse  ensued.    Applicant  said  his  former spouse’s boyfriend was the aggressor.  He accused his former spouse, her boyfriend, and his children of lying about his behavior.  The police arrested Applicant.  When  the  police  searched  him,  they  found  methamphetamine  in  his  pocket.   Applicant said his girlfriend put the methamphetamine in his pocket.  He pleaded guilty  to the two domestic  violence  charges  in  return for having the methamphetamine charge  dismissed.    He  entered  a  diversion  program.    He  successfully completed a one-year anger management program and a 10-week parenting class.  He is on good terms with his former spouse and children.  Amended SOR ¶ 2.d alleges on about October 6, 2014, Applicant was “arrested for contacting [his] ex-wife in violation of a no-contact order then in place.” Applicant said he  was  assisting  his  daughter,  and  he  was  falsely  accused  of  violating  the  restraining order.  The charge was dismissed.  There is currently no restraining order on Applicant.  Applicant said he   “will  never misuse   substances in   the   future.   This shall   include use  or possession  of  any illegal  drug  or the  use  of a  legal  prescription  drug  without  a  valid prescription   or  in  a   manner  inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose.”    He “acknowledge[d]  that  any  future  involvement  or  misuse   is  grounds  for  revocation   of national security eligibility.”  Personal Conduct Applicant said he filled out five SCAs from 2018 to 2022.  However, only two SCAs were admitted into evidence.  Applicant said he did not report his involvement with illegal drugs on his SCAs because he hurried through the SCAs, and he 5 was complacent.   He revealed  his arrests to  security when  they occurred.  He believed  he  did  not need  to  disclose  information  that  was  previously disclosed.    He said he  was honestly trying  to  disclose  accurate  information  on  his SCAs.  Amended  SOR ¶ 3.a  supersedes and  replaces SOR ¶¶  3.a, 3.b, and  3.c.   Amended  SOR ¶  3.a  alleges Applicant falsified  material facts on  his September 30, 2020 SCA when  he  responded  to  the  following  question  in  Section  23  –  Illegal Use  of  Drugs  or Drug Activity  as follows: “In the last seven  years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?  Use  of  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  includes  injecting, snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise consuming any  drug  or  controlled  substance.”  [He]  answered:  “No,”  and  thereby deliberately failed to disclose that information as set forth in [SOR ¶¶] 1.a through 1.f. above. In   his  September  30,   2020   SCA,   Applicant   disclosed   that   in   March  2017,  the   police arrested   him   for  possession   of   methamphetamine   ,   and   domestic  violence assault in  the  4th  degree .  In October 2017, he was found guilty of  the   two  assaults.   The  methamphetamine   charge   was  dismissed.    He completed  two  years of  probation.   In  May 2019, he  was arrested  for DUI,  and  he  was pending   trial,  which  was  scheduled   for   October  2020.      However,  he   did   not disclose  any  possession  and  use  of  illegal  drugs which  was  unrelated  to  the  charges in law enforcement and court records.  Amended SOR ¶ 3.b alleges Applicant falsified material facts on his April 19, 2018 SCA when he responded to the following question in Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity as follows: “In  the  last seven   years, have  you  illegally used any drugs  or controlled substances?   Use   of   a   drug   or  controlled   substance   includes  injecting, snorting,  inhaling, swallowing, experimenting  with  or  otherwise consuming any  drug   or  controlled   substance.”   [He]   answered:  “No,”  and   thereby deliberately failed  to  disclose  that information  as set forth  in [SOR ¶¶] 1.a through 1.f. above. In his April 19, 2018 SCA, Applicant disclosed the March 2017, arrest, charges, and disposition in October 2017, as indicated on his September 30, 2020 SCA, supra.  He disclosed the following criminal charges: his March 1997 possession of drug paraphernalia charge and conviction; his April 1998 DUI charge and conviction; and  his  April  2002  “DUI  Possible  paraphernalia”  charge,  which  resulted  in  a  reckless driving  conviction.   He  disclosed  treatment  for  “THC  ” in January 2005.  However, he did not disclose any possession  and  use  of  illegal  drugs  which  was  unrelated  to  the  charges  in  law enforcement and court records and the 2005 drug treatment records.  6 Amended SOR ¶ 3.c alleges Applicant falsified material facts in his responses to DOHA  Interrogatories,  signed  by  him  on  August  9,  2022,  in  response  to  the  following question: “Have  you  EVER … illegally used  any  drugs or controlled  substances?  Use includes  injecting,  snorting,  inhaling,   swallowing,  experimenting   with,  or otherwise  consuming   any  drug   or  controlled   substance?”  [He]   answered for “Yes,”  but  deliberately  provided   only  partial  dates  of  use methamphetamine   and   marijuana,  and   deliberately   omitted   [his]  use   of amphetamines and cocaine. Applicant  wrote  in  his  response  to  the  DOHA  interrogatory  about  his  history  of  drug involvement that he used methamphetamine twice in October 2017, and marijuana four times in May 2019.  At his hearing, he said he went through the DOHA interrogatory quickly because he was trying to get the document completed.  He believed the government already had the information about his drug involvement.  For the  falsification allegations, Applicant said, “[i]t’s not done  on  purpose. It’s not trying to say that I didn’t do anything. I’ve said that I’ve done all of these things. I own up to  them. I had  a  lapse  of judgment at these  times. I’ve  done  the  wrong  thing, you  know, when  I’ve done  stuff that I shouldn’t have done. . . . I’m  not trying  to cover it up.”  Character Evidence Applicant loves his job, and he would like to continue in his current employment.   He  received  a  coin  and  a  letter  of  appreciation  from  his  employer  for voluntarily working overtime, showing initiative. and resolving problems.  He is trustworthy, reliable, and responsible.  He does not believe he is a risk to security.  Applicant provided 12 character statements from friends, family, and coworkers.  The general sense of their statements is that he is friendly, hardworking, honest, and family oriented. 