In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a  and  SOR  ¶¶  4.a-4.g, and  he  denied  SOR  ¶¶  2.a  and  3.a,  all  with  explanations.  SOR  ¶  3.b  is  a  cross- allegation that he did not answer, so I consider that he denied it. Applicant’s admissions are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 45 years old. He graduated from high school in 1997 and has taken some  college  classes.  He  has  been  married  since  2008,  and  has  a  son,  18,  and  a daughter,  15.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  October  1997  to  November  2016.  His DD-214  discharge  form  reflects  that  he  received  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps Commendation  Medal, Joint Service Achievement  Medal,  five  Navy and  Marine Corps Achievement  Medals,  and  six  Good  Conduct  Medals,  along  with  appropriate  service medals.    Applicant  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions following “Misconduct .” He was unemployed for about seven months 2 after  he  left  the  Navy,  until  beginning  his  current  position  with  a  large  defense contractor, in June 2017. He held a clearance in the Navy.  In  September  2015,  Applicant  was  a  chief  petty  officer    on  a  U.S.  Navy aircraft  carrier  at  sea.  Sailors  were  on  a  “holiday  schedule”  and  were  free  to  watch movies and television.  Applicant and several male sailors were at his work area watching a football game. At about 2100 hours, Sailor S  went to Applicant’s work area to use a  computer. Applicant was her mentor at the time. She was wearing unauthorized  clothing  to  transit  the  ship,  including  Navy  physical  training  sweatpants and a t-shirt.  When  Sailor  S  sat  down,  Applicant  said  to  her,  “What  happened  to  [your]  ass, you  really  don’t  have  any  back  there.”  Other  sailors  laughed.  Moments  later,  Sailor  S asked  Applicant  for  some  candy  he  was  eating.  Applicant  asked  her,  “What  are  you excited about?”, referring to the fact that her breasts were visible beneath her shirt.  Applicant  then  walked  towards  Sailor  S  with  the  bag  of  candy.  She  later  told Naval  Criminal  Investigative  Service    investigators  that  he  grabbed  her  right breast while handing her the candy. She said, “he laughed when he grabbed my breast and the other guys did too.” She pushed his hand away and said, “What the f---? Why would you do that?” Sailor S then left, went to her own work center, and wrote Applicant an  e-mail  telling  him  she  found  his  behavior  inappropriate,  offensive,  and  humiliating.  Sailor  S  reported  the  matter  the  next  day.  NCIS  investigators  interviewed  the three other sailors present that evening and obtained a sworn statement from Applicant. Only  one  of  the  sailors  could  speak  to  the  allegations.  Witness  1  said  Applicant  told Sailor  S  to  “pull  her  pants  up  over  her  flat  ass.”  Witness  1  was  unable  to  observe whether Applicant grabbed Sailor S’s breast.  In  her  sworn  statement  provided  to  NCIS,  Sailor  S  said  she  felt  humiliated  and embarrassed  on  the  night  in  question.  She  said  Applicant  began  making  sexually inappropriate comments towards her in about April 2014. She detailed an incident when she was in the hospital and Applicant came to visit her. She said he sat on her bed, ran his  fingers  through  her  hair,  and  called  her  “beautiful”  and  “sexy.”  She  found  his behavior  offensive  but  did  not  report  it  since  she  thought  of  him  as  a  mentor.  His grabbing her breast was the catalyst for her report.  She was transferred to another ship following her report.  Applicant  acknowledged  in  his  own  sworn  statement  to  NCIS  that  he  asked Sailor S, “why are your pants sagging around  your flat ass?”  He also admitted that he asked her if she was excited about something because he noticed that her “headlights were on”  . He said he may have “grazed  her  breast”  while  handing  her  the  bag  of  candy,  but  he  told  NCIS  that  any 3 contact was unintentional. He received the e-mail from Sailor S but did not respond, as he planned to discuss it with her in person.  In the NCIS interview, he said, I handed  the  bag  to  her with  my right  hand  and  she  grab[bed]  with  her left because   her  right  hand   is  in   a   [cast].  While   reaching   and   returning   my hand,  she   pushed   my   arm   away  in  a[n]  upward   manner  because   I   had grazed   her   breast.   I  didn’t   think   much   of   it  at   the   time,  this  was  not intentional   or  a   purposely  done   act   to   degrade   her.   I   did   not  squeeze, grab,  pinch, or grope  her  breast in any way.  Applicant’s  interactions  with  Sailor S  led  to  charges  under  the  Uniform  Code  of Military Justice  Article 92 , by “wrongfully making  inappropriate  sexual  comments  to  [Sailor  S]  about  her  body  parts,  creating  a hostile  work  environment”;  and  Article  120    by  touching  the breast of Sailor S without her consent. In December 2015, at a nonjudicial punishment   proceeding    under Article  15  of  the  UCMJ,  he  pled  not  guilty  to both  specifications  but  was  found  guilty  by  the  ship’s  commanding  officer  . Applicant was put on restriction for 45 days and forfeited $2,764 in pay for two months.   The  CO  found  that  the  witnesses’  statements  at  the  NJP  proceeding  were consistent with their statements to NCIS. Applicant admitted at the captain’s mast that his  comments  to  Sailor  S  that  evening  were  inappropriate  and  offensive.  He  admitted that  he  had  allowed  their  relationship  to  become  unprofessional  and  unduly  familiar.  The CO found that “it is clear that [Applicant] made inappropriate comments of a sexual  nature  about  [Sailor  S’s]  buttocks  and  breasts,  engaged  in  an  unduly  familiar relationship with her, and fostered an environment where she was comfortable ignoring the uniform restrictions in his work center.” He found that Applicant was not credible in asserting that he may have accidentally touched Sailor S’s breast, “in light of his sexual statements  made  immediately  before  the  incident  and  the  evidence  of  fraternization.”   He  found  that  a  preponderance  of  the  evidence  supported  the  charges.  The CO found that Applicant’s behavior impacted   good   order  and   discipline,   goes  against   the   U.S.  Navy’s  Core Values,  and   distracts   from   the   Navy’s  mission.  His  behavior  clearly violated   the   Navy’s  sexual  harassment   policy,  created   a   hostile   work environment,   and   violated   all   bounds  of  decency.  He  abused   the   trust placed  in  him by  this command  as a  Chief Petty Officer. He further abused his position  as a  mentor to  junior sailors. This behavior has  no  place  in our Navy.  He must  be held  accountable  for his actions.  4 Applicant  retained  legal  counsel  and  appealed  the  NJP  findings  to  the commander of the carrier strike group, but his appeal was denied.  Based on the CO’s findings, Applicant was recommended for administrative separation  from the Navy. In March 2016, the ADSEP board convened and found sufficient evidence of misconduct  due  to  his  commission  of  a  serious  offense.  The  board  recommended  a general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.    Applicant  was  discharged from  the  Navy  as  recommended  in  November  2016.      He  was discharged  after  serving  19  years  and  two  months  in  the  Navy,  with  the  rank  of  chief petty officer .  Applicant  adamantly  denied  Sailor  S’s  allegations  in  his  security  clearance background  interview.    In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted receiving  captain’s  mast  but  denied  the  underlying  conduct,  asserting  that  the  CO  did not properly consider the evidence presented. Applicant  began  his  hearing  testimony  by  asserting  that  the  allegations  were “very  much  fabricated.”    He  acknowledged  using  “a  poor  choice  of  words”  by telling  Sailor  S  to  “pull  your  pants  up  on  your  ass,  and,  hey,  your  headlights  are showing.”  He  said  his  “intent  was  to  just  make  her  aware  of  her  unform  appearance.”   He  denied  approaching  Sailor  S  in  any  sexual  manner  or  making advancements  towards  her.  He  believes  it  was  “unfair”  for  her  to  have  made  those allegations.  He feels the Navy did him a disservice, and he believes people do not want to make statements  and jeopardize their own career.  Applicant  said  Sailor  S  was  in  his  department  on  the  ship,  one  of  about  400 sailors.  He  said  he  was  not  her  supervisor,  but  she  asked  him  and  another  sailor  to mentor her. Initially he told her she should be mentored by a first class or second class petty  officer,  but  he  agreed  to  mentor  her  as  a  chief  petty  officer.  He  saw  her  in  his department  “all  the  time,  two  of  three  times  a  week.”    Applicant  said  their relationship  was  a  strictly  professional,  mentor-mentee  relationship  and  they  were  on good terms.  Applicant  testified  that  on  the  evening  in  question,  the  ship  was  on  “holiday routine”  on  a  Sunday  evening.  Applicant  and  some  junior  male  sailors  were  watching football and relaxing. When Sailor S sat down, he said she needed to “pull your pants up on your ass” and that “your headlights are on” because her nipples were protruding from  her  shirt.  He  said  he  wanted  her  to  be  mindful  of  her  appearance  around  junior male  sailors.    He  did  not  recall  any  of  the  other  sailors  laughing  or reacting at the time.  Applicant said Sailor S asked if he had any candy, and he had some on his desk and he reached over to where she was sitting and gave her some. One of her arms was in a cast. He handed her the candy and she took it.  He denied grabbing her breast.  He  told  the  NCIS  investigator  that  he  doubted  that  he  accidentally  grazed  her breast  but  that  it  was  a  possibility.  He  said  he  “never  grabbed  her  [and]  never  did 5 anything to her physically. I simply handed her the candy.” He said he hit or grazed her arm that was in the cast.  Applicant  said  that,  afterwards,  Sailor  S  sat  at  the  computer  for  another  30-45 minutes.  He  later  learned  that  she  was  upset  and  went  to  her  division  office  and  was crying, but she was not upset or emotional when she left his office.  The  next morning  Applicant  was told by NCIS  that Sailor S had alleged  that he had  grabbed  her  breast.  He  cooperated  with  the  investigation.  He  was  scheduled  to transfer to another duty station, but the investigation put the transfer on hold. He denied going to the emergency room in the hospital with Sailor S. rubbing her hair and calling her “beautiful.”  Sailor  S  was  transferred  off  the  ship  within  72  hours  after  she  made  the allegations against Applicant, per Navy policy. Applicant said he did not want to be seen as  someone  who  “goes  around  grabbing  on  people,  especially  females.”  He  asserted that  Sailor  S  had  “character  problems,”  had  twice  been  to  captain’s  mast  herself,  and had  been  released  from  the  Navy  for  performance  issues.  He  did  not  believe  he  was being treated  equally  and  fairly,  as  he  felt the  allegations  were  based on  hearsay and without concrete evidence.  At captain’s mast, Applicant was asked by the CO about the incident with Sailor S and he said it was fabricated, and he did not know why she would not have done this. He  suggested  during  his  testimony  that  it  was  because  she  wanted  to  get  out  of  the deployment, but he does not know that.  With  respect  to  Sailor  S’s  allegations about  the  incident  in the  hospital  in  2014, Applicant said he escorted her to the hospital once because she was on restriction from a  previous  captain’s  mast.  He  remained  in  the  lobby  for  about  two  hours.  The  doctor came  out  and  asked  him  if  he  knew  of  any  reason  that  she  would  not  be  able  to  get underway  .  He  denied  that  he  visited  her  in  the  hospital  and  was  only there to escort her as an E-7 as required.  Applicant said he “went into a spiral” of depression after he was discharged from the Navy after 19 years and two months of service. He said he is a top performer at his job.  He  also  depleted his  savings  during his  period  of  unemployment  after  leaving  the Navy. He is currently seeing mental health therapists with the Department of Veterans Affairs .  Applicant said that after leaving  the  Navy, he  had no  income  and  was  “obsessed” with   trying   to   clear  his   name   and   get  his   discharge   status  overturned   .   He also  said he  was helping  family members financially and  he  took a  large  pay cut  after   leaving   the   Navy,  from   $76,000   to   $47,000   annually.   He  said  he   had   settled and  cleared up  about $19,000  of his $31,000  in delinquent debts.    He  paid  his  lawyer  about  $13,000   to   appeal  the   captain’s  mast   and   to   represent him during  and after his ADSEP  board proceeding.   Applicant’s  work evaluations  reflect  that  he  is  an  outstanding  leader  who  makes  a  significant  positive impact.  Under Guideline  F, the  SOR  concerns  seven  delinquent debts,  totaling  just  under $32,000. The  debts are  established  by  credit  bureau  reports  in the  record, from March  2022, June 2021, November  2020, and  August 2023.    Applicant disclosed  some debts on  his SCA.  Applicant made payments on most of his SOR debts, but only did so days before the hearing. He financed these payments with a $19,000 loan, in late August 2023.   He  plans  to  continue  to  work  to  resolve  his  debts  and  improve financially.    He  is  to repay  the  loan with  $487 payments  over  60 months.   SOR  ¶  4.a    is  an  account  placed  for  collection.  It  relates  to  a  furniture purchase. Applicant said the furniture began to come apart a month after he bought it, so  he  stopped  paying  on  the  account.  He  made  a  settlement  agreement  with  the creditor for $2,260. The account was resolved with a payment in late August 2023.  SOR ¶  4.b    is an  account that  has been  charged  off.   Applicant paid this  account  in late  August 2023.  SOR  ¶  4.c    is  a  financial  account, probably a loan, money Applicant used for vehicle maintenance and repairs.   A  civil  judgment  was  issued  in  April 2022.  Applicant  did  not  appear  in  court  to defend  himself  since  he  was  overseas.  He  went  to  court  and  paid  the  full  amount  in August 2023.  SOR  ¶  4.d    is  a  military  exchange  account  placed  for  collection.  The account was pending when Applicant separated from the Navy and he was allowed to defer  payments  until  he  found  employment,  but  he  did  not  follow  up  and  the  account became past due. He settled the debt for $12,096, in August 2023.  SOR ¶ 4.e  is an account that has been placed for collection.  Applicant believes he took out this loan to provide financial assistance to a family member with a serious medical issue. He settled the debt for $777 in August 2023.  7 SOR ¶ 4.f  is an insurance debt placed for collection. It last appeared on a CBR in June 2021.  Applicant admitted the debt in his Answer to the SOR and  said  he  would  settle  it.  He  said  at  his  hearing  that  he  still  has  insurance  with  the creditor and is unsure what this debt is about.  SOR ¶ 4.g  is a debt placed for collection by a loan company.  Applicant  said  in  his  Answer  that  he  intended  to  resolve  it.  In  his  hearing  he  said  he wants  to  clear  it  up  but  is  not  sure  if  he  owes  the  debt  or  not.  He  last  contacted  the creditor in May or June 2023.  In  about  2015,  before  he  left  the  Navy,  Applicant  said  he  got  about  $100,000 from a settlement of what he said was a class- action lawsuit relating to the short sale of some  real  estate.  He  said  he  used  the  proceeds  to  pay  off  debts,  buy  a  car,  and  for some other expenses.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  has  about  $13,000  in  past-due  federal  income taxes  that  resulted  from  that  windfall.  He  said  he  has  been  on  a  payment  plan  since 2018 and pays $406 a month. At the time of the hearing , he had not filed his 2022 federal income tax return and had not sought a filing extension. He said he had been sent on an overseas assignment for his job that was extended for several months. He missed the filing deadline and neglected to speak with his accountant about it.    This  is  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  and  will  not  be  considered  as disqualifying conduct. Applicant  has  participated  in  credit  counseling  in  recent  months.  After  the hearing,  he  provided  monthly  budget  information  detailing  his  VA  benefits  , income  from  his  job    and  monthly  expenses,  including  his mortgage  and  the  $487  monthly  payment  on  the  loan  he  used  to  address  his  SOR debts.  Applicant closed his testimony by asserting that if he could go back to September 2015 and do things differently, he would. His work with his counselors has helped him realize that he has responsibilities. He let his personal pride get in the way. He wants to upgrade his discharge and also to address his financial shortfalls. He is valued at work and up to the point of his NJP he was a stellar performer in the Navy.  