As  a  preface,  I did  not  find  Applicant credible.  I  accept  little of  his testimony  as true  unless  it  has  been  verified  by  an  independent  source.  Some  facts  cannot  be verified because he told multiple versions of facts and events. 1 Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  prospective  employee  of  a  defense  contractor sponsoring him for a security  clearance. He was born in a foreign country.  He worked for  a  defense  contractor  in  Iraq  before  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2008. Since  then,  he  has  worked  for  several  defense  contractors,  sometimes  overseas.  He became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2015.  He  held  a  security  clearance  in  the  past,  but  it  lapsed when he was no longer employed by his sponsor. He has attended several colleges and universities,  earning  an  associate  degree  from  one  of  the  colleges  in  about  2015.  He married  in  about  2018  and  divorced  in  about  2020  or  2021.  He  has  one  child.  at 18, 31, 48, 58-64, 75-76; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3) Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions    in February  2018.  He  reported  that  he  attended  three  colleges  or  universities  between 2010  and  2015,  and  that  he  received  an  associate  degree  from  the  last  university  in November  2015.  When  he  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in November 2018, he reported that he married a foreign citizen in a foreign country a few weeks earlier.  Applicant  worked  for  a  defense  contractor    from  July  2017  to  September 2017. He was rehired by DC1 in February 2020, and he resigned for personal reasons in March 2020. He was rehired again in November 2020.  DC1  reported  that  Applicant  traveled  to  a  foreign  country  for  about  five  days  in February 2021 while he was on COVID-exposure quarantine. He then returned to work the  day  after  he  arrived  back  in  the  United  States,  “which  was  a  violation  of  [DC1] Attestation policy.” DC1 security representatives discovered that Applicant did not report foreign  family  members  and  foreign  travel  on  his  pre-screening  questionnaire   that  he  submitted  in  December  2020.  They  conducted  a  travel  debrief  with  him.  He stated that his recent foreign travel was related to a request by a “distant cousin” to sign a  medical  release  form  so  that  she  could  undergo  a  medical  procedure.  During  his background  interview  in  November  2022,  Applicant  stated  that  he  went  to  the  foreign country to give his divorce papers to his ex-wife.  Applicant  testified  that  he  had  to  go  to  the  foreign  country  for  a  “family emergency” because his cousin, who he referred to as his sister, required surgery, and he also had to serve divorce papers on his ex-wife. He stated he did not know that, as a clearance  holder,  he  had  to  inform  his  employer  that  he  was  traveling  to  another country. He was on  COVID hold during that period, and he was not reporting to work. He stated that he thought it was acceptable to report the foreign travel upon his return, which is what he did.  Applicant  was  on  a  leave  of  absence  from  DC1  from  March  2021  to  the beginning of June 2021. He worked in Afghanistan for another defense contractor  from about March 2021 to June 2021. He worked for DC2 in Africa for about two weeks in  September  2021.  DC1  security  representatives  interviewed  him  upon  his  return  to work  in  June  2021.  He  was  asked  if  he  had  any  foreign  travel  since  his  last  trip  in February 2021. He said he could not remember, and he was not sure, before he denied any additional foreign travel.  2 DC1  became  aware  that  Applicant  traveled  out  of  the  country  while  he  was  on the leave of absence. He was interviewed again later in June 2021. He admitted that he worked for DC2 in Afghanistan in March 2021. He stated that DC1 was not paying him, and he needed to make money to pay his bills. He stated that he did not feel that he had to  report  the  travel  because  he  was  working  for  the  U.S.  military  and  the  federal government,  and  he  considered  it  “official  travel.”  DC1  terminated  his  employment  in July 2021 for misconduct for “numerous incidents of unreported foreign travel. Several of which were to high threat countries,” and for failure to cooperate with investigators by deliberately providing false information about his foreign travel.  Applicant submitted another SF 86 in May 2022. He denied intentionally falsifying any question on the SF 86. He pointed out multiple mistakes on innocuous questions as proof  that  “[a]ll  of  these  omissions  happened  because  [he]  did  not  correct  the information  the  computer  entered  in  error  for  [him].” He testified: these Most  of things  are  based   on   pure  negligence,   mistakes, carelessness on my part and not knowing  or  understanding  the  question  -- what  the   question   is   asking.  And   honestly,   this  job   was   --  I   was   rushing through  it. I had  somewhere to  go  and  I wanted  just  to  leave  because  this lady  was   on   the   phone   --  my   security   lady   was  rushing   me   to   finish   and send  it over to  her.  So  I didn’t  have  the  time  to  finally go  back and  look at some of these questions.   Applicant reported on the SF 86 that he was born in a foreign country, came to the  United  States  in  2008,  and  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2015.  He  inaccurately answered “No” to the question that asked: “Have you EVER been issued a passport  by a country other than the U.S?” He denied that the answer was intentionally  false.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  think  about  his  expired  passport  when answering  the  question.  He  testified  that  his mother  has  renewed his foreign  passport without his knowledge, but he did not learn that fact until after he submitted the SF 86.  Applicant  reported  on  the  SF  86  that  he  attended  five  colleges  or  universities between 2010 and 2022. He reported that he earned five associate degrees, including from two colleges in August 2012 and December 2012. He testified that was a mistake, and he did not have degrees from those colleges. He stated that he completed the SF 86  in  a  rush,  and  he  did  not  look  back  at  his  answers.   On  the  SF  86,  under  Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities,  Applicant  failed  to report his work for DC2 from about March 2021 to June 2021 and again in September 2021. He reported the job with DC1. He falsely reported the reason for leaving the DC1 job  was  “work  ended  due  to  COVID-19.”    He  also  provided  false information when he answered “no” to the following question: 3 For  this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the last seven  years? •   Fired •   Quit after being  told you would be  fired •   Left   by  mutual  agreement  following   charges  or  allegations  of misconduct •   Left   by  mutual  agreement following   notice   of   unsatisfactory performance1 Section  13C –  Employment Record of the  SF 86  asked  similar questions to  the above, except   it asked: “Have  any of   the  following  happened  to  you   in the  last seven  years  at employment activities that you  have  not previously listed?   Since  any issues that would  have  required  a positive response  occurred at DC1, which   Applicant  previously  listed,  he   correctly  answered   “No”  to   this  specific  question.  Applicant  stated  that he  reported  that his “work [for DC1] ended  due  to  COVID- 19”   because   he   was   on   hold   due  to   COVID at  the   time.   He  stated   that he   “mistakenly focused on  the  root cause of [his]  termination  from  [DC1]  which  was  because  of COVID- 19   instead  of  just admitting  that   [he]   was  terminated.”    Applicant testified that he did not report his work for DC2 because he thought he did not have to report that work because he “was doing a government service.” He also indicated that “it was a short amount of time and [he] thought it wasn’t important.”  In his response to interrogatories, he wrote the following as the reason he did not report his job with DC2: No  I did not list these  employments because  reason   I totally forgot due to   the   fact  that  they   [were]   both   too   short  especially   the   employment  in Africa   wasn’t   a   good   fit  for  me[.]   I  was   only   there  for  two   weeks.  I   might have  just  confuse[d]  them  to  be  international travel for  work,  which  is not required  to  report or listed since it’s work related travel.  Under Section 17 – Marital/Relationship Status, Applicant failed to report his ex- wife,  and  he  falsely  wrote  that  he  had  “[n]ever  entered  into  a  civil  marriage,  legally recognized civil union, or legally recognized domestic partnership.” He stated that he did not  report  his  marriage  because  he  was  divorced,  and  he  did  not  realize  he  had  to report previous marriages. He added, “We didn’t get married in the church or mosques, so  maybe  that’s  probably  why.  It  was  just  family  arrangement.  It’s  a civil  - - I  don’t know.” He later added, “And then the marriage part, it was just because I knew the lady 1  The SOR did not allege that Applicant falsified these questions. Any matter that was not alleged in the SOR will not be used for disqualification purposes. It may be used to assess Applicant’s credibility, in the application of mitigating conditions, and in the whole-person analysis. 4 was never going to come here.”  Under Section 20C – Applicant reported several foreign trips, including his trip in February 2021. He did not report his work in Afghanistan and Africa for DC2 in 2021. He testified that  he did  not  report  those trips  because  they  were  work-related  trips  for the DoD.  Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  November  2022. He  reported  most  of  the  information  addressed  in  this  decision.  He  denied  being dishonest  with  DC1  personnel,  and  he  denied  intentionally  providing  false  information on the SF 86.  