Applicant is a 56-year-old married man with four adult children. He and his wife have been married for 26 years. A previous marriage ended in divorce. Applicant has a high school diploma and has taken some college courses.  He is a veteran of both the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Army. Applicant served in the Navy from 1987 to 1991.  He was discharged honorably. In 1998, Applicant enlisted in the Army and served until 2015, when he retired honorably.  While in the Army, he completed three tours of duty in combat zones.  He has held a security clearance since 1988.  Through Applicant’s Army career, he developed subject-matter expertise in the field of ordnance, storage, and security.  Since February 2021, he has been working for his current employer as a security officer.  Applicant has a history of misconduct of a sexual nature. In 1999, he was cited for solicitation  of  a  prostitute.    Applicant  testified  that  he  had  no  intention  of soliciting a prostitute that evening. Rather, while he was sitting at a traffic light on the way home one evening in a part of town where prostitutes congregated, he saw a woman get out of a sports car.  He suspected the woman was an undercover police officer because she was well dressed and looked “much different than the other typical ladies of the night would [look] in that area.” He explained further that, because he was taking a course in criminology at the time, he wanted to speak to the supposed undercover officer to see firsthand how undercover sting operations are conducted, in the event he ever needed to write a paper on the subject.  Subsequently, he asked the woman where she took her johns, and she nodded her head in the direction of a nearby hotel.  Applicant then drove his car towards the hotel and parked at an adjacent parking lot, whereupon multiple police officers pulled beside him in unmarked vehicles and issued him a citation for soliciting prostitution.  Subsequently, Applicant paid a fine. Shortly  after  the  episode,  Applicant  told  his  wife  the  same  explanation  of  the circumstances surrounding the issuance of the citation, to which he testified. She did not find this explanation credible.  Beginning in 2017, Applicant attended swingers’ parties every four to five months. At the hearing, he testified that he stopped attending them in 2020, whereas, during a subject interview, he told the investigator that the last swingers’ party he attended was in February 2022, ten months after the initiation of the security clearance investigation.  Often while at these parties, he had sexual intercourse with strangers.  His wife 2 was unaware that he was attending these parties. When he went, he would tell her that he was going to work.  At  one  of  the  parties,  a  woman  with  whom  Applicant  had  sexual  intercourse, photographed him wearing no clothing except for a pair of panties.  In March 2021, while at work, Applicant checked his personal email and discovered that the woman he met at the swingers’ party emailed him the picture.  Applicant tried to delete it, but accidently saved it onto his office’s work drive.  Because Applicant is not  computer  literate,  he  was  unable  to  delete  it.  Consequently,  he  asked  a  female coworker  for  help.  He  did  not  ask  a  male  coworker  for  help  because  he  was  too embarrassed.  Before his coworker helped him, he warned her that she might find the photograph offensive.  She then went into the work drive and deleted the picture.  Shortly thereafter, the woman who helped Applicant delete the inappropriate picture filed  a  sexual  harassment  complaint  with  their  employer.  The  next  day,  Applicant’s employer  fired  him  for  violating  company  policy.    According  to  the termination letter, Applicant’s employer also reviewed the contents of Applicant’s computer after the coworker’s complaint and discovered several “obscene and offensive” files.  While  on  the  job,  Applicant  watched  pornography  on  his  telework  laptop approximately 15 to 20 times.  He knew that it was against company policy to download pornography onto his work computer, but he did not think that watching pornography on his work computer while connected to his home internet carrier posed a problem.  At the time Applicant was fired, he was the company’s facility security officer.  Applicant has not watched pornography since May 2020, and he has not attended a swingers’ party since February 2022.  He is ashamed of the pain that  he  caused  his  wife  and  understands  that  “love  is  more  powerful  than  any  kind  of fantasy.”  In late 2022, Applicant told his wife about his swingers’ party attendance.  According to Applicant’s wife, he feels shame and remorse for his behavior, has grown as a person, “and is working hard to develop the skills needed to avoid making such poor choices again.”  Moreover, he is a man of tremendous character who has supported her through her fight with cancer, given a homeless man the shoes off his feet, and covered shifts for coworkers in crisis without advance notice.  One of Applicant’s current supervisors provided a character reference. He is aware of  Applicant’s  past misconduct  and  stated  that  it  “play[s]  no  difference  on  his  role  and position at his workplace” because of the stellar judgment he demonstrates on the job.  In July 2023, Applicant voluntarily underwent a psychological evaluation to ascertain whether his behavior, as described above, was indicative of any underlying psychological 3 disorder.    After interviewing  Applicant  and  conducting  psychological  testing,  the psychologist concluded that “Applicant’s behaviors of concern . . . were the function of poor choices made over the course of his life rather than because of any malicious intent or sexual deviance.”  Moreover, he concluded that the risk Applicant will engage in any such behavior in the future is low.  