Applicant is 68 years old. He holds two bachelor’s degrees. He earned them from different U.S. universities. He married in 1981 and divorced 2020. The couple separated in  2015  and  they  initiated  divorce  proceedings  in  2016.  There  was  one  child  of  the marriage, who is now in her thirties and has developmental issues. Applicant remarried a citizen of [Country C] in 2021 and he has a stepchild from this marriage, who recently turned 18. His current wife resides in a property he owns in [Country M] and he spends about half of his time there. His stepchild also resides in his [Country M] property. His current  wife  is  a  homemaker  and  both  she  and  the  stepchild  are  in  the  process  of immigrating to the United States.  Applicant  held  his  first  security  clearance  in  the  mid-1980s.  He  held  a  security clearance for about 30 years when it lapsed in 2018 due to employment issues. His area of  work  involves  negotiating  international  agreements.  His  work  required  international travel.  Applicant  admits  all  of  the  Guideline  J  allegations  with  explanations,  which  are cross alleged under Guideline E, SOR 3.a. The Guideline J and cross alleged Guideline E allegations are supported by GE 1 – GE 4, GE 13, and GE 15 – GE 17. SOR 1.a, Applicant was charged in December 2015 with domestic violence and a protective order was issued against him. In his Answer, he admits the allegation and he states an attorney  advised his wife to file a protective order against him in retaliation for him filing one against his wife the day prior.  SOR 1.b, Applicant was charged in June 2016 with driving under the influence  and convicted of DUI in August 2016. He cites  as mitigation that he has not had another incident in the past six years.  SOR 1.c, Applicant was arrested in November 2016 for driving on  a suspended license and pled guilty to the offense in 2017.   He offered an explanation in his Answer that the interlock system was unreliable, so in October 2016 he decided to “take a  period  of  license  suspension  in  its  place.”  There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  he 2 requested a license  suspension, but he admits that  in November 2016 he drove to his condominium  to  prevent  his  ex-wife  from  taking  his  remaining  personal  belongings, including roughly $10,000 in gold and silver bars.  He was subsequently cited for driving on a suspended license. He offered in his Answer that his concern was justified because he later had his ex-wife charged for breaking into the condominium, but he then dropped the charges on the basis he felt sorry for his ex-wife. SOR 1.d, a  warrant for Applicant’s arrest was issued  in June  2018, in [State  N], for felony extradition  as a  fugitive  from  another state.  He was  unaware  at  the  time  he  was traveling   that   a   warrant  had   been   issued.   He  had   to   return   to   the   United   States   from Country M  to  accept  the  charges.  The  charges were  dismissed  without leave  in July 2018 when  he  turned  himself in to  the  seeking  state.   As an  explanation  in his Answer,  he   denies   he   fled   the   country  to   avoid  trial   on   charges  of   altering   documents related  to  property in Country M,  as his ex-wife  claimed, and  had  only gone  to  [Country M] to  deal with their property in Country M. He  acknowledges he  was convicted  of felony fraud  but  notes he  did  receive the property in  Country M in divorce.  SOR 1.e, Applicant was charged in 2018 with felony fraud and received probation before  judgment.  In  his  Answer  he  explains  he  entered  an  Alford  plea  and  received  a $150  fine,  40  hours  of  community  service,  and  an  agreement  the  matter  would  be expunged, which it was.  He states he would now have  contested  the  charges  had  he  known  they  would  be  discoverable  in  the  security clearance application process.  Applicant  admits  all  of  the  Guideline  F  allegations  with  explanations,  which  are cross alleged under Guideline E, SOR 3.a. The Guideline F and cross alleged Guideline E allegations are supported by GE 1, GE 2, and GE 9 – GE 12. Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that, as of March 2017, Applicant filed five bankruptcy petitions. He filed two Chapter 13 bankruptcy petitions. The first in March 2017 , and the second in November 2017 . The March 2017 filing was dismissed in October 2017 for failing to complete required forms and the November 2017 filing was dismissed for failure to attend a meeting of creditors. He filed three  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petitions.  The  first  in  November  2003   involved about $90,000 of debt, which was discharged in February 2005.  He noted he was granted a top-secret clearance in 2005 with a bankruptcy on his record. The second in February 2018 , which was dismissed in April 2018 for failure  to  provide  the  required  documents,  had  issues  surrounding  the  signatures involving the application.  The third in November 2018 , was discharged in February 2019. He stated when got himself “to a point where [he] was eligible for bankruptcy and did do a Chapter 7, which cleared some debts.”   For the bankruptcy filings after 2003  he offered the same explanation; that  when  his  wife  left  their  home  in  December  2015  she  dumped  all  financial responsibility,  and  refused  to  work,  so  in  order  to  put  themselves  in  the  best  position financially he pursued bankruptcy.  He testified “after the marriage and  the  relationship  was  gone,  I  just  said  to  hell  with  everything.  I'm  just  going  to  let 3 everything go and move on with my life and establish a new life for myself.”  In two separate court actions Applicant was obligated to pay over $168,000. The first court action  was a judgment in the amount of $72,600 entered against him for wrongfully converting funds held for his disabled adult daughter.  He admits the allegation and acknowledges comingling her accounts with his investment accounts and that he sustained losses he could not cover. He testified he never provided the court with “a sufficient explanation. And I can’t provide a sufficient explanation here today.”  He is saving money to be able to pay off this debt.   The  second  court action    involves  unpaid  alimony  of $96,000.    AE  K  states  his  former  spouse  was  granted  an  amount  of $147,500 and any unpaid amount would be converted into a monetary judgment.  The SOR alleges a $96,000 alimony award. In his Answer he admits the allegation and offers that all “alimony including all back alimony is being faithfully paid in accordance with the court order.  Applicant admits SOR 2.h, which declares despite his financial situation alleged in SOR 2.a through 2.g, he provided approximately $54,000 in financial support to foreign nationals  he  dated  between  2015  and  2020.  In  his  Answer  he  explains  that  after  he separated, he worked through a marriage service which specialized in placing American men  with  foreign  women.  He  notes  he  had  two  long-term  relationships,  the  second  of which resulted in marriage, and that he was working “the majority of time” and could afford to help support these women.  Applicant did not admit or deny the Guideline E allegation in  his Answer. He did admit to allegations that comprised SOR 3.a. I applied those facts discussed above to the Guideline E allegation, which I consider as a denial based on his nonresponse. Applicant in his Answer and testimony attributed the allegations in the SOR directly or indirectly to events surrounding his divorce from his wife of 34 years. He described the divorce as a “five-year acrimonious, destructive, intense, bitter, and litigious divorce.”  He insists he has changed his circumstances for the better now that he is no longer in a bad marriage and has happily remarried.  