In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 2.a,  2.b,  and  2.c.    He  also  provided  mitigating  information.  His  admissions  are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is 27 years old, and he works in imagery and artificial intelligence, and his  current  employer  has  employed  him  for  17  months.    In  2012,  he received a general education degree .  He has not attended college, and he has not served in the military.  He has never married, and he does not have any children.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying  frequency  from about November 2012 to at least October 2022. He first used marijuana when he was 16 years old, and for the last two or three years, he used marijuana three or four times a week.   He  most  recently  used  marijuana  three  weeks  before  his  hearing.   Recreational and medical use of marijuana have not been illegal under state law in his state  of  residence  since  January  2022.    He  has  friends  and  family  who  use marijuana, and he is in an environment where marijuana is used.  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant used cocaine or crack cocaine with varying frequency from about July 2019 to at least May 2021. He did not use cocaine before July 2019 or after May 2021.  He used cocaine about 10 times.  He used cocaine with his former partner and his brother.  He has no intent to use cocaine in the future.  SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant  intends  to  use marijuana  in  the  future.  At  the  time Applicant  completed  his  November  1,  2022  SCA,  was  interviewed  by  an  Office  of Personnel Management  investigator on December 8, 2022, and responded to the SOR  on  July  28,  2023,  he  promised  to  stop  using  marijuana  if  he  received  a  security 2 clearance.  At his hearing, he said he is more mature now, and he does not intend to use marijuana in the future.  Applicant instructed his friends not to give him illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia even if he asks for them.  Personal Conduct SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleges the information in SOR ¶ 1 and its subparagraphs, supra. SOR ¶ 2.b alleges Applicant used an inhalant , which is illegal under state law, with varying frequency from about October 2019 until at least September 2022. Applicant  said  he  used  inhalants  of  either  amyl  nitrate  or  isobutyl  nitrate  until  around September 2023, which was about four weeks before his hearing.  He used the inhalant about once a week.  He acknowledged that his use of the inhalant was illegal under the state law where he resides.  SOR  ¶ 2.c alleges Applicant intends to use  illegal inhalants  in  the future.  At his hearing, he said he does not intend to use inhalants or illegal drugs in the future.  