In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a  through 1.j with  clarifications.   He  also  provided  mitigating  information.  His  admissions  are accepted  as findings  of fact.  Additional findings follow. Applicant  is  a   61-year-old  staff   cybersecurity  specialist,   and   he   has  worked   for defense  contractors for  about  20  years.  He was married  for the  first time  from 1987  to  1996.   He  and  his  current  spouse  have  been  married  for 25  years.  He has been  legally separated  from  his spouse  since  2016; however, they still  live together.   They each  have  two  children  from  previous relationships.   His  two   children   are   ages  29   and   34.     In   1986,  he   was   awarded   a bachelor’s degree  in  applied  science.   In  1991, he  was awarded  a  master’s degree in   business  administration   .     He  has  several  information   technology certifications.    His  resume   provides  additional  details  of  his  professional experience.  Personal Conduct Substance Misuse SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege Applicant misused  cocaine and Percocet “most days between at least approximately June 2016 and August 2016.” SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant “abused  Xanax  on  various  occasions  between  at  least  approximately  June  2016  and August  2016.”  SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  Applicant  “used  marijuana  on  various  occasions between at least approximately June 2016 and August 2016.” 2 The  first tim e Applicant  used  cocaine  was  in  1982  when he  was 20  years old.  He  may have  used  marijuana  in  1982.   From  1982  to  2016, he  did  not use cocaine.  He was prescribed  Xanax in  the  early 1990s to  treat his anxiety.  In 1983, Applicant left college because he was consuming an excessive amount of  alcohol  and  abusing  illegal  drugs.    In  1983,  he  was  in  a  serious  motorcycle accident while under the influence of alcohol.  Over the next 20 years, he drank alcohol to intoxication on some weekends.  Around 2001, he attended Alcoholics Anonymous  meetings, and he stopped drinking alcohol for one year.  In 2005, he  was  getting  intoxicated  on  a  regular  basis,  and  he  attended  an  alcohol-treatment program.  In February 2006, he completed the program, and he intended to remain sober.  He was sober for about five months.  He continued to attend AA meetings, and he had periods of alcohol consumption and sobriety over the next several years.  In 2015, he moved to a different state from where his wife was living, and his alcohol consumption increased.  From  June  to  August 2016, Applicant was living  apart from  his spouse, and  he  was unemployed  because  he  quit  his  job  with  a  defense  contractor in  May 2016.  He  argued  with  his spouse  about  his  alcohol consumption, and  he  was  depressed.  He met a  woman  at a  bar, and  he  had  an  affair  with  her.  She  also provided  illegal drugs to  him.  He did  not specifically remember using  marijuana with  her.   He denied  that he  used  marijuana, cocaine, or Percocet after 2016.  From September to November 2016, Applicant attended an  intensive  outpatient substance abuse  program.  He primarily attended the IOSA program for alcohol treatment.  In his initial IOSA diagnostic assessment on September 8, 2016, he disclosed: cocaine use most days for eight weeks with last use August 23, 2016; Percocet use “5-6 [pills]” most days for eight weeks with last use August 23, 2016; and Xanax use “2-3 5 mg [pills] twice a week for eight weeks with last use August 23, 2016.  Applicant took Xanax for two or three years; however, he did not use Xanax in 2016.  He believed his IOSA program medical records incorrectly indicated he used Xanax in 2016.  Applicant attended IOSA treatment three days a week, and on November 3, 2016, he successfully completed the IOSA program.  He was honest about his substance  abuse  at  the  IOSA  program.    He  has  had  some  relapses  when  he consumed alcohol after completion of the IOSA program.  He frequently attends AA meetings.  When he responded to DOHA interrogatories on March 23, 2023, he  said  he  most  recently  consumed  alcohol  in  July  2021,  when  he  drank  about  eight beers.  At his hearing, he said he most recently consumed alcohol in July 2022, and on that occasion, he drank to intoxication.  He did not explain the discrepancy about his most recent alcohol consumption at his hearing. SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  in  about  September  2016,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  Severe;  Stimulant  Use  Disorder,  Cocaine  Type,  Severe;  Opioid 3 Use Disorder, Severe; and Anxiolytic Use Disorder, Mild. He agreed with the accuracy of the diagnosis alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e.  On May 16, 2023, Applicant provided a PSC specimen, which tested negative for alcohol evidence of moderate to heavy ethanol consumption.  On May 23, 2023, Applicant provided a hair sample, which tested negative for use of any illegal substances.  On  July 22, 2022, Dr. D, a  licensed  psychologist, evaluated  Applicant  at the  behest of the  DOD CAF.  Applicant told  Dr. D about his use  of cocaine, marijuana,  and oxycodone    in  2016.   He told  Dr.  D  that  he   had   not  consumed  any alcohol in the  previous 12  months.  Dr. D’s report concluded  that  Applicant “does not present   with   a   condition   at   this   time   that   could  pose   a   significant   risk  to   his  judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness concerning  his  ability to  handle  classified  information.”   He “meets the  criteria  for Alcohol Use  Disorder, moderate, in self-reported  remission over  12   months.  .  .  .   His  use   has  apparently  not  caused   any  legal  or  occupational problems.”  Dr.  D  diagnosed  Applicant  as  follows:  Polysubstance  Use  Disorder  , mild, in self-reported remission for 6 years; Dysthymia,  in  self-reported  remission/controlled  with  medication;  and  Generalized Anxiety  Disorder,  in  self-reported  remission/controlled  with  medication.    Dr.  D concluded  his  “mental  health  condition  appears  to  be  well  controlled  with  his  current medications  and  participation  in  Alcoholics  Anonymous  meetings.  For  these  reasons, [Applicant’s] risk for problems with judgment and reliability appear to be LOW at this time.”  On May 3, 2023, Dr. L, a licensed psychologist, evaluated Applicant at Applicant’s behest.   Dr.  L  concluded:   Applicant  has a  serious  drug  and alcohol history; however, his substance use disorders are in remission;  his provision of false information during the security clearance process occurred “because he panicked and feared he would lose his job ”;  the likelihood of him being  dishonest  in  the  future  is  relatively  low;    he  is  remorseful  about  his  prior substance abuse;  he seems motivated to do better and “his prognosis is fair to quite possibly good”; and  he “does not present with evidence  of behavioral or personality patterns,  or  mental  health  conditions  that  could  reasonably  degrade  his  reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment.”  Provision of False Information during the  Security  Clearance  Process SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g allege Applicant answered, “No,” to two questions on his April 23,  2020  SCA:    “In  the  last  seven    years  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or controlled  substance?”;  and    “In  the  last  seven    years,  have  you  intentionally engaged  in  the  misuse  of  prescription  drugs,  regardless  of  whether  the  drugs  were prescribed  for you  or someone  else?” He  deliberately failed  to  disclose  the  information set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d, supra. 4 In his SOR response, Applicant said he failed to accurately report his illegal drug use on his SCA.  He said he has learned from his mistakes.  He said: During  my subject  matter interview in 2020,  I inadvertently misrepresented the   number  of  times  I  illegally  used   cocaine   [and   Percocet],  as  I  had forgotten  the  exact  details due  to  the  passage  of time  since  2016.  I  could not  recall  the  exact  number  of  times  that  I used  cocaine  [and  Percocet]  or how much  I used. It  was never my intent to  falsify or conceal information during the investigative process.  Applicant said he has learned from his mistakes.  At his hearing, he admitted  he  failed  to  disclose  accurate  information  on  his  SCA,  and  he  said  he  was “extremely ashamed,” and he panicked.  He knew it was wrong when he submitted the false denial of use of illegal drugs.  SOR ¶ 1.h alleges Applicant  denied, during his March 19, 2021 interview by an authorized investigator for the DOD, that he used any illegal drugs other than cocaine or misused any prescription drugs other than Percocet during the July 2016 to August 2016 timeframe. He deliberated failed to disclose the information set forth in SOR ¶ 1.c and 1.d, supra. On June 5, 2020, an authorized investigator for the DOD interviewed Applicant, and he did not disclose his use of cocaine and use of any controlled substances without a  prescription  in  2016.    The  investigative  summary  states,  “[a]ll relevant  adjudicative  criteria  were  discussed  with  Subject.  The  interview  disclosed  no additional  information.”    He  said  he  “was  ashamed  and  scared  to  tell”  the investigator about his use of cocaine and Percocet without a prescription.  The allegation  that  he  failed  to  disclose  his  cocaine  use  and  Percocet  use  without  a prescription is not alleged in the SOR. On March 19, 2021, an authorized investigator for the DOD interviewed Applicant, and he disclosed that he used cocaine and Percocet without a prescription.  The OPM investigator said if his use of illegal drugs was 10 times or less, it would be considered experimental, and Applicant agreed with this suggestion and said it was 10 times.    The  investigative  summary  states  that  Applicant  said,  “he  used [cocaine] about ten times over a two to three week period.”  He said he used “two  or three  Percocet  pills per day over the  same  two  or three  week period.”  He disclosed his Xanax use in the 1990s to the investigator.  He said he ended his Xanax use in 1995.  Applicant did not disclose his marijuana use in 2016 to the investigator. He did not disclose the marijuana use because “it was so trivial” in comparison to his cocaine use.   He did not know how many times he  used cocaine and Percocet in the eight- week period of June to August 2016.  5 SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.j allege Applicant said in response to DOHA interrogatories on March 23, 2023, that he only used cocaine on one or two occasions in 1982 and 10 times or less between June and July 2016, and he denied  that he had ever been diagnosed with any condition or disorder related to drugs. He failed to disclose the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e, supra. In  his SOR response, Applicant said he  failed  to  accurately report his cocaine  use and  past diagnosis during  his  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  He  said  he did not have  access to  his medical records.    In  his answers to  DOHA  interrogatories, he  said  he used  cocaine  10  times or less in  the  end of June and  beginning  of July 2016.  At   his hearing,  he  denied   that  he   remembered  how many   times  he   used cocaine.   In  his response  to  DOHA interrogatories, he  said he  used  Percocet on most  days during  the  same  period  in  2016.   At  his hearing, he  said  he  did  not use   Percocet  more  frequently  than   he   used   cocaine.    When   he   told   the investigator and  responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories  and  said  he  used  cocaine  10  times or less,  he  knew that was not  the  truth.  He made  the  claim  that he  used  cocaine 10  times  or less because  he  wanted  to  be  labeled  as an  experimental cocaine  user.   When  he  used  cocaine, sometimes he  would snort six lines  or more of cocaine  on  a single occasion.  When  he  was  using  cocaine  in  2016,  he  did  not  have  access  to  classified information.  He held a sensitive position when he was working for the contractor; however, in 2016, when he was using cocaine, he was unemployed.  As to the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.j that he failed to disclose his substance-related diagnosis  in  his  March  23,  2023  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant  was unaware of his substance abuse diagnosis set forth in SOR ¶ 1.e until he reviewed his medical records in April 2023.  Character Evidence The  general  sense  of  the  statements  of  five  coworkers  is  that  they  believe Applicant  is  honest,  trustworthy,  reliable,  and  professional.    His  performance reviews for April 2017 to August 2020 indicate he is a highly effective employee who made contributions to  his employer’s mission  accomplishment.   His employer awarded a certificate of recognition to Applicant for five years of service and commitment.  