In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-j. He owes  $34,598  in  delinquent  student  loans  and  consumer  debt  totaling  $1,073.  His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  tool  senior  manufacturing  planner  for  a  defense contractor. He has worked for his employer since July 2017. He has been continuously employed since September 2010. He started working as a federal contractor in December 2013. He obtained his bachelor’s degree in 2012 and a master’s degree in 2016. He has never married and has no children.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  stated  that  over  the  past  few  years  he  had  made  a “conscious  decision  to  save  as  much  funds  as  possible  with  the  plan  to  resolve  [his] existing debts by utilizing a lump sum payment method to ultimately pay them off quickly and saving interest.” He explained that he had been evaluating his financial priorities and made sure to not only set money aside to allocate towards his  payment but also putting cash  towards  an  emergency  fund.  He  stated  that  his  personal  savings  are  now  in  a “financial  position  to  execute  this  plan.”    He  did  not  offer  any  financial information with his Answer or response to the FORM. The one credit report from October 2022 in the record reflects he is current on various revolving credit accounts.  SOR  ¶¶   1.a-h   are   student   loans   placed   for   collection   totaling  $34,598. Applicant  told  the  investigator  during  his  security  clearance  interview  that  he  started having issues with his student loans in 2017 because the payments were too high. He did not contact the creditors. He told the investigator that in 2020 he was spending beyond his means  and  lacked good  expense  management  and  had  difficulties  setting up  auto 2 pay. He told the investigator and restated in his Answer  that he planned resolve these student loan debts “utilizing a lump sum payment approach.”  The student loan debts are listed on his credit report.  These student loan debts were assigned between August 2008 and January 2012.  He offered no evidence of any action on these debts. I have taken administrative notice that in March 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic,  the  President  directed  the  Department  of  Education    to  provide  the following  temporary  relief  on  DoEd-owned  federal  student  loans:  suspension  of  loan payments, stopped collections on defaulted loans, and a 0% interest rate. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act  provided for the above relief measures through September 30, 2020. See Federal Student Aid  website, ISCR Case No. 20-02787 at 3 n.1  This student loan debt relief  was  extended  several times  by  subsequent  Executive  Orders.  See https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19.  Congress  recently  barred  any further extensions and DoEd announced that student loan repayments would resume in October 2023. See https://studentaid.gov/debt-relief-announcement. SOR ¶  1.i: a  delinquent  cellular account  placed for collection in  the  amount of   $689. Applicant  admits  the  debt.  In  his  Answer,  he  states  that  the  account  was  no longer delinquent and had been resolved. The credit report shows the debt was assigned in January 2022 and that it had been placed for collection.   He offered no evidence of any action on this debt. SOR  ¶   1.j:  past  due   consumer  account   in  the   amount   of   $384   with   a   total Applicant admits  the debt. In his Answer, he states that the account balance  of  $472. was no longer delinquent and had been resolved. The credit report shows the debt more than 180 days past due and having been closed by the creditor in the amount of  $384 with a total balance of $472.  He offered no evidence of any action this debt. 