In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR except SOR ¶ 1.b, which he denied. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. Applicant is a 30-year-old aircraft servicer employed by a federal contractor since August 2019. He has never held a security clearance.  He has never married. He has a three-year-old son for whom he pays child support. Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  July  2011.  He  attended  college  from August  2011  to  December  2015,  when  he  received  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  received student  financial  aid  while  in  college.  He  worked  part  time  as  a  self-employed  party promoter from August 2011 to August 2019, selling tickets to parties and social events for a profit. He also worked for a beverage company from July 2011 to September 2017. He worked for a collection agency from October 2017 to January 2018, but he quit because he did not like the work, and he was unemployed until he was hired for his current position. He testified that many of his debts were incurred when he was going to college and trying to  support  himself.    He  incurred  student  loans  while  in  college,  but  he  has  not started  making  payments  on  them.    The  SOR  does  not  allege  any  delinquent student loans. In May 2018, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor possession of marijuana. He  and  two  passengers  were  in  his  vehicle,  and  the  two  passengers  were  smoking marijuana. Disposition of the charges was deferred, and Applicant was required to attend a substance-abuse class, pay a fine of $286, and perform 24 hours of community service. After he completed these requirements, the charges were dismissed.  He  testified  that  he  started  smoking  marijuana  “every  couple  days”  while  he  was unemployed. . He stopped using marijuana after the May 2018 incident.  His drug involvement is alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 3.a. The SOR alleges six delinquent debts reflected in credit reports dated February 16, 2022 ; April 15, 2021 ; and January 4, 2024 . The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below. SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  a  default  judgment  entered  in  December  2020  for  unpaid property taxes on a motor vehicle in the amount $421.  In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted this debt and stated that he had contacted the  tax authority to 2 establish a payment plan. At the hearing, he testified that he did not know anything about this debt.  The judgment has not been satisfied. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges a judgment entered against Applicant in March 2019 for $3,680. Court records reflect that the judgment was for unpaid rent.  At the hearing, Applicant testified that his apartment had flooded and damaged his personal property, and his  landlord  promised  to  reimburse  him  for  the  damages  but  did  not  keep  his  promise. Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  paying  rent  and  was  evicted  after  one  month  of nonpayment.  When he was interviewed by a security investigator in November 2019,  he  said  that  he  moved  out  when  he  received  an  eviction  notice.  He  told  the investigator that he did not intend to pay judgment.  However, the court records reflect that the judgment was satisfied by garnishment in February 2021.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges an account charged-off for $14,167. The delinquent amount is the  deficiency  after  a  vehicle  was  repossessed  and  sold.    Applicant  told  a security investigator that the debt is valid, but that he did not intend to pay it because he could not afford to.  As of the date of the hearing, he had taken no action to resolve it. . SOR ¶ 1.d alleges a  credit-card account charged off for $3,505. Applicant told a security investigator that the creditor offered to settle this debt for $1,400, but he did not intend to pay it.  As of the date of the hearing, he had taken no action to resolve it.  SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  an  account  charged  off  for  $1,882.  Applicant  told  a  security investigator that this debt was the deficiency after a vehicle repossession that preceded the  repossession  on  which  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  was  based.  He  told  the investigator that he did not intend to pay it.  At the hearing, he testified that he believed the debt was a personal loan.  It is unresolved. SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  a  medical  debt  placed  for  collection  of  $369.  Applicant  told  a security investigator that he does not intend to pay it.  At the hearing, he testified that he had numerous unpaid medical debts, but he was unable to specifically identify this debt.  It is unresolved. SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  a  utility  bill  placed  for  collection  of  $227.  He  told  a  security investigator that he would contact the creditor and resolve it.  At the hearing, he testified  that he had  lived in multiple apartments, and he  could not  determine which unpaid utility bill was alleged in the SOR.  It is unresolved. Applicant currently earns about $28 per hour, and his take-home pay for each two- week  pay  period  is  about  $1,500.    He  testified  that  he  was  behind  on  his  rent payments and his car payments at the time of the hearing.  For the past two years, he has been paying $720 per month for his child’s daycare. In November 2023, he was ordered to pay child support of $846 per month, plus $100 per month to include his child in his medical insurance.  3 Applicant does not keep current on his financial obligations in part because he does not regularly monitor his mail. He testified that his mail goes to his grandfather’s house, and sometimes it is weeks or months before he gets his mail.  He submitted no evidence of financial counseling. He has not disputed any of the debts. 