Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer or a predecessor thereof since about January 2011. He earned a high school diploma in 2004 and has taken some college courses but has not earned a degree.  In  2004,  after  high  school,  he  enlisted  with  the  Navy  and  was  on  active  duty until  2008,  when  he  was  discharged  for  failing  to  report  for  duty  because  he  had “alcohol on his breath.” He was “forced out of the Navy” for alcohol-related reasons. He claimed  he  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.  He  has  been married since 2008. He has three children, ages thirteen, nine, and one.  From May 2007 until at least March 2020, Applicant regularly consumed alcohol in excess and drove while intoxicated. During this timeframe, he normally drank two to three times per week and again on the weekend. He estimated that he often drank 10 to 15  beers  over  a  two-hour  timespan  and  then  drove  home.  He  has  been  arrested  and charged with driving under the influence of alcohol  four times between May 2007 and  March  2020.  Police  arrested  him  and  charged  him  with  DUI  in  May  2007,  April 2014,  July  2016,  and  March  2020.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  was  convicted  of  the  2007 DUI,  pleaded  guilty  and  received  a  deferred  adjudication  of  the  2014  DUI  charge, pleaded nolo contendere  to the 2020 DUI charge, and the disposition of his 2016 DUI charge  is  unclear.  Regardless  of  the  outcome  of  the  charges,  he  was  driving  while intoxicated on all four occasions he was charged with DUI. He was involved in vehicular accidents on two of these occasions, in which he collided with a parked car  and  a  pole  .  With  respect  to  the  2014  DUI,  he  claimed  that  he  had  being drinking heavily, passed out at a friend’s house, and then “woke up” while driving his car right before getting into an accident.  After  his 2020  DUI,  Applicant  knew he  had  to  address  his  alcohol consumption issues. About a month after his 2020 DUI arrest, Applicant sought and received mental- health  and  alcohol-related  counseling  from  a  neural  therapist  until  about  December 2021.  He  stopped  attending  this  counseling  because  he  could  not  afford  it.  He contemplated  attending  Alcoholics  Anonymous    meetings  but  has  not  done  so the  aforementioned  mental-health  and  alcohol-related because  he  considered counseling  to  be  sufficient.  He  has  access  to  alcohol-related  treatment  that  he  can afford  through  Veterans  Affairs  ,  but  he  does  not  know  how  to  begin  the  process and  has  not  looked  into  it.  After  his  2007  DUI,  the  Navy  required  him  to  attend  a 2 Substance   Abuse   Rehabilitation   Program   ,  and   an   Alcohol  Dependency Program  . He  completed  both  of these  requirements.   Applicant also has been attending marital counseling for an unspecified period of time. While he claimed that he was never told to abstain from alcohol or that he suffered from an alcohol use disorder, he did abstain from alcohol for about six months after his 2016  DUI,  and  from  March  2020  until  December  2023.  During  his  personal  subject interviews in late 2021 and early 2022, Applicant told a DOD investigator that he vowed to stop drinking and had no desire to start drinking again. However, in December 2023, he had a glass of wine with his wife to celebrate his wedding anniversary. He also had a glass  of  wine  on  New  Year’s  Eve  2023.  He  acknowledged  that  he  should  not  be consuming  alcohol  but,  paradoxically,  is  not  sure  whether  he  will  abstain  in  the  future because he  does not have an urge to drink and thinks he  is in control. He claims that counseling  has  taught  him  to  use  more  healthy  coping  mechanisms.  He  also  claimed that  he  has  not driven  after  consuming  alcohol  since  his  2020  DUI.   Applicant acknowledged that he has made poor choices involving alcohol in the past, but he believes that he has remedied the underlying issues that caused them. He claimed that he had undiagnosed and untreated mental health issues that contributed to his  overdrinking.  Sadly,  within  a  six-month  period  prior  to  his  2016  DUI,  his  sister, grandmother, and best friend passed away. He claimed that these losses contributed to his mental-health issues, which resulted in him drinking more. He claimed that he does well at work, has never shown up to work intoxicated, and has been entrusted to be a union representative for about 700 people over the last eight years.  