In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, she admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.h, with a narrative statement and explanations. Her admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is 36 years old. She earned an associate degree in 2020. She has been married and divorced twice, most recently from 2015 to March 2020. She has no children.  Applicant served in the U.S. Air Force for 15 years and 5 months, from January 2006 to June 2021, when she was medically retired honorably as a staff sergeant .  She has a 100% service-connected disability and receives $3,622 a month in compensation.  After  leaving  the  Air  Force,  Applicant  held  a  job  with  a  contractor,  earning  an annual salary of $36,000, from June 2021 to November 2021. Since then, she has worked full time as a trainer for another defense contractor. She now earns an annual salary of 2 $72,000.  With   her  VA   benefits,  she   earns   about   $100,000,   annually.   She   has  held   a clearance  since  her Air Force career.  The delinquent debts in the SOR , mostly consumer debts, total just over  $23,000.  They  are  established  by  credit  reports,  from  October  2021,  November 2022,  April  2023,  and  October  2023,  .  Applicant  also  provided numerous credit reports as part of her case, from April 2023 , June 2023 , and October 2023 . Applicant explained  that  her debts began  during  an  abusive marriage. Both  she and  her then-husband  were in the  Air Force.  They were living in separate states. He had young  children.  Their  plan  was that  she  would  get  a  house  on  base  and  he  would  cover the  difference  what the  basic housing  allowance  would  not  cover.  This did not  happen. She  got  a  part-time  job, but she  stopped  this work in  2018  when  he  retired  from  the  Air Force and moved  to  State  1, where she  was.  She moved  out of  base  housing  and  could not afford to  pay the  bills that resulted. She  got an  off-base  apartment.  Her then  husband got a  job  as a  contractor on  base  for about four to  six months but  was fired.  Debts  piled up,  and  she  retained  a  debt  relief  company  in  about  2017-2018  but  to  no  effect.   Applicant’s ex-husband paid the mortgage for their home in State 1  but was not able to do so once he lost his contractor job. Ultimately, Applicant was responsible for all the expenses, including feeding his children. She did not tell him they were in financial trouble and was afraid to do so. She did not have access to all the  family’s funds and accounts.  In  2019,  Applicant  was  president  of  her  squadron’s  “booster  club,”  a  social organization  that  organizes  community  events,  activities,  and  fundraisers.  She  had access to, and management responsibility for, the booster club’s checking account. The checking  account  was  used  to  deposit  donations  and  to  fund  appropriate  club expenditures.  In  August  2019,  it  came  to  the  attention  of  unit  leadership  that  a  civilian  club member  had  to  use  her  personal  funds  to  purchase  items  for  a  booster  club  function because the booster club checking account was underfunded. When she was confronted about  the  matter,  Applicant  admitted  that  she  had  appropriated  booster  club  funds  for personal use.  Applicant explained that there had been a booster event on base. She had cash in hand when the event ended. She did not go to the bank. She told her chief she was going to deposit the money but she did not. She told her first sergeant the next day. She denied being  confronted.  Applicant  acknowledged  misappropriating  funds  on  four  occasions between  April  and  August  2019  when  her  conduct  was  discovered.  Most  instances involved  less  than  $100.  Applicant  used  the  money  for  gas,  groceries,  and  other household expenses. She did not have access to her husband’s savings account that she was putting money into. Applicant testified that this was a very hard time in her life. She 3 did not believe  she  had  any other options, and  she  did not think she  could go  to  someone else for help.  In  an  October  2019  Article  15  proceeding,  Applicant  was  punished  for  wrongful appropriation  under  $1,000  under  Article  121  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice .      She  was  reduced  to  the  grade  of  senior airman, but the reduction was suspended through mid-April 2020 when it was forgiven. She forfeited $250 in pay. She was also reprimanded for willfully disregarding Article 121: Your  actions  and   careless  attitude   have   brought   discredit  upon   both   you and   this  unit.  Using   booster  club   funds  for  your  own  personal  use   is unacceptable.  You  have  proven  that  you  are not  dependable.  Any further incidents will be dealt with more severely.  After her reprimand, Applicant was removed as booster club president. She was allowed to continue with booster club activities and to handle money at events, which she did  later  that  fall  but  she  was  not  allowed  to  make  bank  deposits.  She  completed  the suspension period  without incident Her rank was not reduced, and she  retired in June 2021 as a staff sergeant .  There is no indication that her clearance was impacted. Applicant testified that no one in her command lost confidence in her. She repaid the  money  right  away.  This  was  an  isolated  incident.  She  said  she  made  a  horrible decision, felt embarrassed and let a lot of people down. She deeply regrets what she did, feels ashamed and guilty, and wishes she had reached out to someone such as her first sergeant and asked for help.  Two  days  after  her  actions  came  to  light  in  August  2019,  Applicant  told  her husband she wanted a divorce.  He asked to keep their furniture to provide for  his  daughters.  He  wanted  her  to  pay  half  of  the  mortgage.  She  asked  only  for  the $3,000  she  had  in  savings,  but  he  told  her  it  had  been  spent.  She  bought  a  bed  and dresser to use in an apartment and essentially started over from scratch.  Their divorce was finalized in March 2020. In June 2021. Applicant retired from the Air Force and moved to State 2. She said all the SOR debts became delinquent due to her marital difficulties. She had signed up for  debt  relief  in  about  2017  or  2018  but  also  acknowledged  she  neglected  her  debts because she could not pay them.  Applicant said all of the SOR debts but for SOR ¶ 1.b have been addressed and paid. She reached out to all of the creditors after her background interview in October 2021. She said she had bills to pay, took the debt with the lowest amount first and went from there. Tr. 61-62) She provided an updated SOR response at her hearing.  SOR  ¶  1.b    is  a  charged-off  consumer  account.  Applicant  admitted  the debt and said in her answer that “the 1099C has been filed in my taxes.”  4 The last payment on the account was in May 2021. She is negotiating repayment and intends to follow up. Her last interaction with the creditor was the week before the hearing. Her personal representative will be assisting her in negotiating repayment.  The debt, now $9,011, remains pending.  SOR ¶ 1.c  is a consumer account placed for collection. Applicant admitted the debt and  said she was  working on a payment plan.  The debt was  paid  in  October 2023.  SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a  charged-off  consumer  account.    Applicant admitted the debt and said that “the 1099C has been filed in my taxes.”  She asserted that she talked to the creditor and was told the debt was cancelled.  The debt remains unpaid on an October 2023 credit report.  SOR  ¶  1.e    is  a  charged-off  consumer  account  with  a  large  retailer. Applicant admitted the debt and said “the 1099C has been filed in my taxes.”   She asserted that she talked to the creditor and was told the debt was cancelled. Tr. 30-31, 40-43, 64-66) The debt remains unpaid on an October 2023 credit report.  Both  of the  debts for SOR ¶¶  1.d  and  1.e  are  to  the  same  initial creditor, bank S. In   her  post-hearing   submissions,  Applicant   documented   that  bank  S   issued   IRS   Form 1099-Cs for  two  debts, cancelling  one  debt,  a  charge  account,  for $883, on  March  20, 2022,  and   cancelling   another  debt,  a   credit  card,  for  $342,  on   June   11,  2021.    However, she  acknowledged  that her representations in her SOR answer that  she  had filed  the  requisite  IRS  Form  1099-C forms with  her tax returns were  inaccurate.  SOR ¶ 1.f  is a military consumer account with Applicant’s ex-husband. It has  been  charged  off.  Applicant  admitted  the  debt,  made  an  agreement  to  pay  in installments in November 2022. She said she had made an initial payment of $1,652. The debt is being paid through a debit card connected to her checking account. She makes regular payments, as recently as October 2023. The balance is now $2,143.  SOR ¶ 1.g  is a cell phone or internet account that has been placed for collection.  Applicant denied the debt, as it had been paid. She paid $1,689 in March 2023 by debit card and later established that the debt has been paid  SOR ¶ 1.h  is a consumer account placed for collection by a bank.   Applicant  denied  the  debt,  as  it  had  been  paid.  She  provided  supporting documentation.  On her August 2021 SCA, Applicant disclosed her article 15 proceeding regarding her  misappropriation  of  funds,  noting  that  the  punishment  had  been  suspended  and 5 removed  from  her record after six months.   She  also discussed  the matter in  her background interview.  However, Applicant did not disclose any delinquent debts, charged-off debts, or debts in collection, on her SCA. . She also did not reveal those debts in her October 2021 background interview until she was confronted about them.  She said she did not track her credit at the time she completed her SCA. She acknowledged telling the interviewer that she was going to pay all of her debts by the end of 2021, but acknowledged in her testimony that this was “wishful  thinking.”    Personal  conduct  security  concerns  under  Guideline  E, either as to the booster club incident, or to her lack of candor during the security clearance process, are not alleged in the SOR. Applicant  testified  that  while  her  financial  stability  is  a  work  in  progress,  her finances  are  now  much  improved.  She  has  some  money  in  the  bank,  and  in  a  401 pension. She can take care of herself. She keeps a budget. She has no late tax returns or tax debts. She participated in credit counseling through Air Force family readiness in 2019  after  the  booster  club  incident.  Her  personal  representative  for  this  hearing,  a personal friend, is also a bankruptcy attorney and good financial resource.  Applicant also sees a mental health counselor with the VA on a monthly basis and attends appropriate appointments with a psychiatrist and psychologist. She has done so for about four years, since her divorce. She also saw a behavioral health counselor after the booster club incident.  Ms.  S,  a  friend  and  former  coworker  of  Applicant’s  testified  and  provided  a character letter. Ms. S has a clearance. Applicant is a hard worker. She is a good person with  good  morals,  and  she  tells  the  truth.  She  is  very  responsible.  Ms.  S  would  trust Applicant with her children. Ms. S is aware of Applicant’s debts and the  Article 15. She has no issues with Applicant’s judgment, trustworthiness, or reliability.  Applicant’s  supervisor,  Mr.  T,  testified.  He  has  known   Applicant   since   she   was hired   about  18-24   months  before  the   hearing.  They  have   daily  contact.   She   has  an excellent  work  ethic, is  proactive,  and  is a  top  performer.  She  is reliable and  dependable. He  understands   how marital and   family   issues  can   cause   financial   strain.   He  is   aware that  she  is  resolving  her debts.  She  makes  him  aware  of  problems that  arise.    Another current supervisor, Mr. B, provided  a similar letter.  Applicant’s  first  sergeant  at  the  time  of  the  booster  club  incident  wrote  a recommendation letter. He said the incident occurred at a difficult time for her, she had a lapse in judgment, and made a mistake. She “acted swiftly and responsibly to rectify the situation” by reporting to him what had happened the next day. He was impressed with her honesty, integrity, and willingness to accept responsibility. She repaid the money. He believes  she  is  of  high  moral  character.  He  recommends  her  for  a  security  clearance 6 without hesitation.  Applicant also provided  letters of reference  from  October 2019 from  other supervisors who worked with her at the  time, knowing  of the incident.  