Applicant is 42 years old and single. She has a bachelor’s degree. She has been employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  2003,  and  seeks  to  retain  national  security eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her  employment.   Paragraph 1   The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance therefore  potentially  unreliable, because  she untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. financially  overextended  and is The SOR stated that Applicant had 13 debts that were past due, charged off, or in collection,  in  the  total  amount  of  approximately  $59,758.  These  include  delinquent Federal taxes as well as consumer indebtedness. In her Answer she admitted allegations 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, and 1.h, with explanations. She denied allegation 1.e, stating that she had filed all of her Federal income tax returns. She further denied allegations 1.i, 1.j, 1.k, 1.l, 1.m., 1.n, and 1.o, stating she had resolved those debts. The existence and amount of these debts is supported by her admissions to seven SOR allegations in her Answer and by credit reports dated January 30, 2019; August 9, 2022; and July 3, 2023.  They are also confirmed by Applicant’s answers during an interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management   that was held on June 7, 2019.  In addition, they were confirmed by Applicant’s responses to DCSA CAS interrogatories, dated August 4, 2022.   Finally,  Applicant  also  supplied  a  credit  report  dated  September  15,  2023.  2 The current status of the debts is as follows: 1.a   through   1.d.  Applicant  admitted  owing  delinquent  taxes  to  the  Federal government for tax years 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016. She testified that the total amount owed to the Federal government for back taxes, including penalties and interest, is about $30,000. She further stated that she has now filed all of her back Federal tax returns and begun working on a payment arrangement with the IRS.  The reason she did not file her tax returns in a timely fashion is that she got scared of the consequences as time went on. As of the date of the hearing, these debts have not been resolved.  1.e. Applicant  denied   that  she   failed   to   file  her 2017   Federal income   tax  return. She stated in her Answer, “I deny, 2017, I worked  for 2½  months and  I was on  medical.  I have  filed  these  taxes numerous amounts of  times and  they were  received  by IRS. I only had   a  [sic]  income   of   about  $13,000.”  Government  Exhibit  3   contains   IRS   account transcripts  for  various   tax  years.  Regarding   tax  year  2017   the   transcript  states,  “We apologize for the  inconvenience, but  we  are  not able  to  process the  requested  tax year at this time.”    Based  on  the  state  of  the  record, I cannot  find wither that Applicant has filed  this subject tax return  or that she  was not required  to  do so. 1.f. Applicant admitted that she had not filed her state income tax returns for tax years 2012 through 2017. In fact, she admitted that she had not filed her state income tax returns for approximately 18 years, through tax year 2022. She has prepared and printed out the returns  but has  not filed them.  The  reason  she did not file  her tax  returns  in a timely fashion is that she got scared of the consequences as time went on. However, she also stated that she does not believe she owes any back taxes to her state tax authority.  1.g. Applicant admitted owing $14,872 to a creditor for a charged-off automobile loan. She indicated that she is working with a credit repair agency to set up a plan to pay this debt. This debt had not been paid or resolved as of the time the record closed.  This debt is not resolved. 1.h. Applicant admitted owing $11,998 to a creditor for a charged-off automobile loan. She stated that she still has the car, is making payments, and the amount currently owed is $4,900. The most recent credit reports in the record  confirm that she has been making payments and the balance on the account has been significantly reduced.  This debt is being resolved. 1.i.  Applicant  denied  owing  $2,284  for  a  collection  account  to  a  creditor.  She submitted  documentation  showing  that  this  debt  was  paid  in  March  2023.   This debt is resolved. 3 1.j. Applicant denied owing $493 for a charged-off account. She testified that she had paid this debt and had a receipt to support her statement. A receipt from this creditor is not included in Applicant Exhibit C. The account does not show up in the most recent credit report in the record, Applicant Exhibit D. There is insufficient evidence to show that this debt has been paid or resolved.  This debt is not resolved. 1.k.  Applicant denied owing $330 for a past-due medical account. She testified that she had not paid this debt. No evidence was submitted after the hearing to show that this debt has been satisfied.  This debt is not resolved. 1.l. Applicant denied owing $130 for a past-due medical account. She testified that she had not paid this debt. No evidence was submitted after the hearing to show that this debt has been satisfied.  This debt is not resolved. 1.m. Applicant denied owing $70 for a past-due medical account. She testified that she had paid this debt and had a receipt to support  her statement. A receipt  from this creditor is not included in Applicant Exhibit C.  This debt is not resolved. 1.n. Applicant denied owing $66 for a past-due medical account. She testified that she had paid this debt and had a receipt to support her statement. A receipt  from this creditor is not included in Applicant Exhibit C.  This debt is not resolved. 1.o.  Applicant denied owing $65 for a past-due medical account. She testified that she had paid this debt and had a receipt  to support her statement. A receipt  from this creditor is not included in Applicant Exhibit C.  This debt is not resolved. Applicant testified that she had satisfied debts that are not on the SOR, but are included in her credit reports. Applicant Exhibit C contains receipts to two creditors that are not identified on the SOR.  Applicant admitted that she had several other delinquent debts that are not on the SOR. They are found in Government Exhibit 7 and Applicant Exhibit D. She is working with a credit consolidation company to resolve these debts, as well as the one in allegation 1.g.  4 