Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  never  married  and  has  no  children.   She  earned a  high school diploma in June 2000.  Applicant reported no military service. Since October 2022, she has  been  employed  as  an  administrative  coordinator  for  her  current  employer.   Previously,  she  worked  for  other  employers  in  various  jobs.  Applicant  reported unemployment in August 2022 following her termination for cause.  Applicant has never held a security clearance.  Applicant’s  finances Plagued  by  dental  issues,  Applicant  turned  to  implants  in  2018  to  stabilize  her teeth.    In  describing  her  dental  condition,  she  explained  that  her  teeth  had 2 become very brittle. Symptoms from her condition Included dry mouth and dry eyes that became  so  severe  that  medications prescribed  could no  longer  arrest  the  increasingly debilitating  pain  she  was  experiencing.    Accepting  the  advice  of  her  dentist  in 2018,  Applicant  entered  into  a  contract  with  a  dental  financial  services  company  to cover the estimated costs of her planned implant surgery. Before  Applicant  could  appear for her  scheduled  implant  services,  she  lost  her job over administrative issues.  Rather  than cancel her  scheduled dental services, she made the decision to go ahead with the implant services, which she did  in  July  2018  for  the  billed  contract  amount  of  $42,581,  or  thereabouts.   Without  dental  insurance  coverage  or  other  sources  of  income,  she  became  the  lone responsible party for covering the costs of the implant services,  Following her implant surgery and her ensuing two weeks of recovery, Applicant found  a  new  low-paying  job  and  contacted  her  financial  services  company  to  arrange suitable  monthly  payment  terms.    Arranged  payment  terms  with  the financing  agency    called  for  monthly  payments  of  $356,  with  monthly payments scheduled to commence in August 2018.  Applicant agreed to these payment terms and made several payments in 2018 and 2019 while looking for a better paying job.  With the new job she landed in 2018, Applicant assured her financing agency of her intentions to make monthly payments.  . And with the aid of a new job, she was able to make several payments to her financing agency.  The new  job  she  took  lasted  only  a  few  months,  however,  and  in  February  2019,  she informed her dental financing agency that she could no longer make her agreed monthly payments.  Even after finding other employment in early 2019, Applicant did not resume her monthly payments with her dental financing lender. Citing needed repairs on her home, she took out another loan to finance the repairs without notifying her lender of the home loan  and  renewed  need  for  a  payment  pause.    Both  her  credit  reports  and account  summaries  confirm  her  failure  to  make  any  payments  on  her  dental  financing contract  between  August  2019  and  September  2023.   And, during this time, she made no efforts to contact her SOR 1.a creditor to work out new payment plan terms, notwithstanding her receipt of promotions from her employers.  Between  February  2019  and  August  2022,  Applicant  received  promotions  from her  then  employer.  After  receiving  the  SOR  in  September  2023,  Applicant  briefly resumed her payments to her dental financing lender and, accordingly, is credited with making  four  monthly  payments  of  $50,  respectively,  between  September  2023  and January  2024.    Although,  the  post-hearing  settlement  offer  that Applicant  received  was  not  accompanied  by  any  documented  acceptance  and  good- faith payments from Applicant. Terms of the creditor’s settlement offer are summarized as  follows: a  reduced repayment  amount of $29,000 and monthly payments of $1,600 spread over an 18-month period.  3 