Applicant is a 49-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks eligibility to hold a public trust position. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and  material  findings.  Additional  findings follow. Background Applicant  married  in  May  1995  and  divorced  her  husband    in May  1999.   She  has  two  adult  children  from  this marriage,  ages  27  and  29.  She remarried in March 2002 and separated in 2018 after nursing her husband back to health following three massive strokes in 2016.  Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in January 2011 and master’s degrees in March 2013,  February  2015,  and  September  2016.    She  attended  other  graduate programs  between  October 2019  and  July  2021  without  earning  diplomas  or  degrees. . Applicant reported no military service. 2 Since August 2022, Applicant has been employed as a referral specialist for her current health services employer.  Previously, she worked for other employers between July 2017 and October 2021) in various jobs.   She  reported  unemployment  between  November  2021  and  February  2022.  Applicant has never held a public trust position.  Applicant’s finances Applicant  struggled  with  the  management  of  her  finances  for  many  years.  In November  1992,  she  petitioned  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  relief.    Her  petition was dismissed. Bankruptcy records confirm that she petitioned for Chapter 7 bankruptcy relief in May 1997; she attributed this petition to the medical expenses associated with the  birth  of  her  two  children.    Applicant  petitioned  again  for  Chapter  7 relief  in December 2007.  She  attributed  this filing to  the joint desires of herself and her husband  to clean up their debts.  In her petition, she scheduled personal property valued at $18,581 and claimed no real property.  For claims of creditors, she  scheduled  $13,906  in  secured claims, $725  in unsecured  priority  claims , and $86,130 in unsecured non-priority claims.  Following  each  of  her  bankruptcy  petitions,  Applicant  returned  to  accumulating debt beyond her ability manage and control.  In 2016, her husband suffered three  strokes,  which  prevented  him  from  working  for  over  two  years.  With  only  her income to over her family’s expenses, she encountered major difficulties, and setbacks, in managing her family’s finances.  Strains from her increased financial responsibilities impacted her marriage and her own finances and contributed to their 2018 marital separation.  More recently, Applicant has experienced further financial stress associated with her  father’s  failing  health.  In  2023,  health  issues  involving  her  father’s  diagnosed  lung cancer  necessitated  her  devotion  of  more  time  and  resources  to  providing  financial assistance  and  travel  support  to  her  parents.    Pressures  on  her finances  increased  following  her  three-month  layoff  from  her  non-profit  employer  in 2021.  While her father is a military veteran with a pension and social  security  benefits,  he  requires  her  help  with  household  expenses  and transportation to his medical appointments.  Between   2010   and   2021,  Applicant  accumulated   26   SOR-listed   delinquent accounts  exceeding   $30,000.      She   is  also  of  record   in  accumulating delinquent accounts exceeding  $10,000  that are not included  in the SOR.  To  date, Applicant  has  provided  no  documentation  of  addressing  most of the  listed SOR debts. One of the listed SOR debts  covers a $3,070 delinquency balance on  a  medical  vet  bill,  for  which  she  claims  to  have  made  some  payments   to the  assigned  collection agent.   To address  this  debt  and  others  listed  in  the  SOR,  she  engaged  post-SOR  debt counselors, neither of whom have been able to help her with documented payments to 3 the  creditors on  the  plans they set up  for her.   Another debt   covered  a  mobile  loan  she  took  out  to  tide  her over after  she  lost  her job  in  2021.  To  date, she  has not taken  any  documented  steps to  address  this debt.  . Other  unaddressed  delinquent  debts  that  Applicant  is  checking  on  include  the following:  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  ;  1.d  ;  1.e-1.f   ; 1.g-1.j ; and 1.k .  Additional  delinquent  dets  are  comprised  of  the  following:  1.l  ; 1.m   ;  1.p-1.q   ; 1.r-1.t  ; 1.u ; and 1.v-1.z .  Delinquent  non-SOR  debts  covered  in  Applicant’s  credit  reports  total  five  in number and exceed $10,000 in the aggregate.  While she expects to have  more  time  now  to  devote  to  resolving  these  admitted  debts,  she  has  taken  no actions to date to either work out payment arrangements or explain why she could not reach any positive settlements with these creditors.  Applicant’s  post-SOR attempts to enlist debt counselors  to  help  her resolve  her delinquent  accounts  never  achieved  the  positive  results  she  hoped  for.   Neither  of  these  debt  service  firms  were  successful  in  helping  her  to  successfully resolve any of her delinquent SOR accounts or the  non-SOR accounts covered  in her latest credit report.  Endorsements and performance evaluations Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  her  friends  and  family.    Each  of  her references  credit  her  with  honesty  and  trustworthiness.  Although,  none  of  her references expressed any detailed knowledge of her financial history.  Applicant received  exceeds  expectations  performance  evaluations  for  the  documented  rated years  and credit for being a top performer.  4 