Applicant is a 48-year-old, single man. He has been married twice previously. Both marriages ended in divorce, most recently in 2019.  He is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force, serving from 1995 to 1999. He was discharged honorably. .He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016 and a master’s degree in 2018.  He has been working for a defense contractor as a data analyst since 2016.  The SOR alleges Applicant has been struggling with recurrent financial problems for  more  than  15  years.  In  July  2011,  he  filed  for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  protection,  as alleged in subparagraph 1.k.  In October 2011, the court granted the petition, discharging approximately $41,000 of delinquent debt.  In the  seven  years  after the  bankruptcy  discharge,  Applicant incurred approximately  $19,000  of  additional  delinquent  debt,  including  the  debts  alleged  in subparagraphs 1.e, totaling $2,335; 1.f, totaling $863; 1.h, totaling $2,589; and 1.i, totaling $13,543.  Applicant enrolled in a debt-consolidation plan and began making payments through the plan in 2018.  Although he made consistent payments for four years, he never finished the payment plan because he became ensnared in an online  romance  scam  in  2022  in  which  he  was  duped  into  sending  multiple  payments totaling  $15,000  to  an  anonymous  online  person  masquerading  as  a  potential  love interest.    Because  of the  scam,  two additional accounts, as 2 alleged in subparagraphs 1.g, and 1.j, totaling approximately $1,800, that Applicant had opened after the debt consolidation, became delinquent. Both were charged off  by the fall of  2022.  In October 2022, Applicant consolidated all his delinquent SOR debts into another payment plan.  He has been paying $176 per month towards the plan  since  November 2022.  By  September 2023,  he  had  satisfied  the debt  alleged  in subparagraph 1.f.  In   addition   to   the   delinquent   commercial  debts,   the   SOR  includes  delinquent federal   and   state   income   tax  debts,   as   alleged   in   subparagraphs  1.a   through   1.d. Specifically, SOR subparagraph 1.a alleges a $4,524 federal income tax delinquency for tax year 2021  and  a  $511  federal income  tax delinquency for tax year 2018.  Applicant has  been making  $51  monthly  payments  to  the  IRS through  an  installment agreement since  June  2019.    When  he  did not satisfy the tax year 2021 delinquency  on  time,  it  was incorporated  into  the  installment agreement.  Apart from  six payments   that  were   dishonored   for  insufficient  funds,   Applicant   has  been   making   the payments, as agreed.   The most recent  dishonored payment was in November 2022.  Subparagraph 1.c alleges that Applicant owes $1,967 in back state taxes for tax year 2021. It remains outstanding. SOR subparagraph 1.d alleges that Applicant had two business tax liens entered against him in 2016 and 2020, totaling $198. This debt constituted a tax on a business that Applicant’s ex-wife owned, which he financed.  When Applicant discovered these liens, he contacted the municipality and satisfied them.  Applicant continues to work on paying off his debts. In September 2023, he made payment arrangements to satisfy a $650 debt that was not listed on the SOR.  SOR  Paragraph   3   alleges  two   domestic  violence   allegations.   Specifically,  on December  17,   2018,   Applicant’s  estranged   wife,  a   foreign   national,   filed   a   request  for domestic violence  protective  order, alleging  that  on  December 11,  2018,  around  6:00  am in the  morning, he  assaulted  her  in the  parking  lot  of  his apartment  complex.     At  the   time   of  the   alleged   episode,  Applicant  and   his  wife   had   been   separated   for approximately  eight   months.  That  morning,  she   had   gone   to   his  apartment   without notifying   him   in  advance   to   retrieve   her  immigration-related   documents.   When  she  rang  the  doorbell, he  did not  answer it, nor did  he  invite  her in.  Shortly after she  rang, however, he  walked  out of the  home  towards his car. Applicant’s estranged  wife asked  him  about the  documents  that she  needed  and  followed  him  to  his car. She  alleged that Applicant,  while walking  to  his car, suddenly became  enraged, threatened  to  kill her, and  began  strangling  her. .  After he  stopped, he  punched  her in the  face.  After the  assault,  Applicant’s estranged  wife  alleged  that he  entered  his  car and drove  away, whereupon  she  got into  her  car and  “tried  to  follow him  so he  could not 3 get away.”  After losing him in traffic, Applicant’s estranged wife alleged that she then drove towards her immigration attorney’s office, called him from the car and told him what happened. He advised her to return to the scene and call the police.  Applicant’s estranged wife followed the immigration attorney’s advice and returned to  Applicant’s  apartment  complex.  At  approximately  8:45  am,  an  apartment  complex maintenance worker noticed Applicant’s estranged wife in the parking lot crying, and he called the police.  The  police  arrived, and  after taking  Applicant’s wife’s statement,  prepared  a  domestic  violence  report.  In  the  report,  Applicant’s  wife  was characterized as “upset,” “crying,” “fearful,” and “nervous.”  Moreover, the officer noticed that Applicant’s wife had lacerations on her neck, a swollen right eye, and scrapes and bruises on her palm and lower left arm.  The police then called an  ambulance  for  transport  to  the  local  emergency  room.    Before  the ambulance arrived, the police officer took pictures of the injuries, completed an incident report,  including  a  “strangulation  documentation  form,”  and  issued  an  emergency protective order.  Applicant’s  estranged  wife  was  treated  at  the  hospital and  discharged  that  day. The  intake  staff  noted  multiple  contusions.    On  December  17,  2024, Applicant’s estranged wife filed a request for a domestic violence restraining order against him.  The court originally scheduled the hearing for January 2, 2019, and granted a temporary restraining order pending the hearing.  The case was continued until March 2019.  On February 2, 2019, Applicant responded to the request for a domestic violence restraining order, denying the allegations, and moving for a restraining order against his estranged wife.  He admits that his estranged wife came to his home the morning of December 11, 2018, at approximately 6:00 am. However, he denies harming or threatening her. Instead, he said that she repeatedly hugged him, begged him for help to prevent her from being deported, and asked him to kiss her. Intent on getting away, Applicant closed his apartment door and ran to his car with his estranged wife in pursuit.  After he entered the car, she then allegedly jumped into his lap before he could close the door, while continuing to exclaim, “help me, baby!” and “kiss me, baby!”   He  then  lifted  and  pushed  her  off  him,  removing  her  from  the  car.  He contends  that  he  did  not  injure  her  in  the  process.  Applicant  then  exited  the  car.  Per Applicant, his estranged wife continued to put her arms around him and beg him for help.  Fearing that they were waking up the neighbors, Applicant exhorted his estranged  wife  to  calm  down,  and  suggested  that  she  follow  him  in  her  car  to  a commercial establishment where they could talk in public. After Applicant and his wife got into their respective vehicles, Applicant intentionally turned in a direction opposite from the street that led to the location where he had asked her to meet, and then intentionally lost her in traffic. Later that day, Applicant returned  home, packed  his belongings,  and  moved  to  a friend’s house.  He did so  because  he  was terrified  that his estranged  wife 4 “and/or her boyfriend could do something” to him.  ) On  March  2,  2019,  the  local  court  held  a  hearing  regarding  the  competing protective  order  motions.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  hearing,  the  court  ruled  against Applicant’s estranged wife, concluding that she did not meet her burden of proving by a preponderance of evidence that abuse occurred within the meaning of the state statute, or that she was placed in a reasonable fear of imminent bodily harm  by any actions of Applicant.    The  court  reached  this  conclusion  “despite  the  injuries admittedly present” on Applicant’s estranged wife and finding ‘the testimony of [Applicant] to  be  sufficiently  more credible  than  the  testimony of  [the estranged  wife]  to  preclude [her]  from  meeting  her  burden  of  proof.”    The  local  court’s  decision constitutes the evidence Applicant offered in support of his denial of the allegations set forth in SOR Paragraph 2, and cross-alleged in SOR Paragraph 3, that he choked and punched his wife. In Applicant’s reply to the FORM, he stated that his estranged wife was not injured when  he  left  her on  the  morning  of  December 11,  2018, and  that “whether or how she received those bruises or lacerations was not from me.”  Contrary to his earlier statement when he suggested that she follow him to a nearby commercial establishment where they could talk without disrupting the neighbors, Applicant, in his reply, stated that he left the apartment complex to go directly to work.  During Applicant’s estranged wife’s interview with the police officer who filed the December 2018 incident report, she told him that the episode where Applicant choked her was not the first time he physically abused her. Specifically, one morning in  March 2018, he punched her on the shoulder “a couple of times” after she would not get out of bed  to  move  her  car  away  from  his  car  so  that  he  could  drive  to  work,  as  alleged  in subparagraph 2.b.  