Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation. Her admission is incorporated into the findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 42 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2004. She married in 2006 and divorced in 2018. She has 17-year-old child from the marriage. She is being sponsored for a security clearance for the first time.  Applicant completed a security clearance application  in  March 2023. In it she disclosed her drug use. She indicated that she uses “THC  Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in May 2023. In August 2023,  she  verified  the  accuracy  of  her  summary  of  interview  and  did  not  make  any changes or additions. She confirmed that she continues to use  medicinal marijuana to help her sleep. She uses at home and has a valid prescription. It does not violate state law where she lives. She has never participated in drug counseling. She said she does not associate or socialize with individuals who use illegal drugs. She is likely to continue to use marijuana as she prefers natural prescriptions as a sleep aid but is willing to figure out another avenue if it is required to obtain and maintain a security clearance.  As  part  of  her  interrogatories,  Applicant  was  asked  if  she  continued  to  use  any controlled  substance  since  her  background  interview  in  May  2023.  She  indicated  she continued to use medical marijuana nightly since then. She purchases it in her state where it does not violate state law. In response to whether she intended to use this drug in the future, she stated: “will cease use if required to do so to obtain a clearance.”  2 In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted she uses medicinal marijuana on the recommendation of her doctor to help her sleep. She further stated: I have  stated,  and  I  maintain, that  I  will  forfeit/destroy  my [State  X]  medical marijuana  certification  to  be  in compliance  with  U.S. Government  security clearance  if so  required. I am  a  responsible, law-abiding  citizen, and  have never/would never use any medication outside of its intended use. Outside of medical  marijuana, I  have  never engaged  in  illegal drug  use,  or misuse of any controlled substance. * * * I take my career seriously and  would not  engage  in behavior that  would be detrimental to  the company I worked for, or my own reputation. * * * Additionally,  I  have  been  told  by  multiple  parties  involved  with  and throughout this process, that my medical marijuana certification would be a non-issue,  or  I  would  have  forfeited/destroyed  it  upon  application  for security clearance as I offered.  