In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR  Applicant  initially  denied  the  factual  allegations  in  all the Paragraphs of the SOR, with explanations He also provided additional information to support his request for eligibility for a security clearance. Applicant is  58  years old,  unmarried,  and  has no  children.  He has  a  Bachelor of Science  degree. He has worked  for a  defense  contractor  since  October of 2018.    Applicant  was  honorably  discharged   from   the U.S.  Navy  as  an   Engineman   Second   Class  in  June   of  1989.   Guideline I  –  Psychological Conditions 1.a.  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  duly  qualified  mental  health  professional   on June 30, 2022, with a brief follow-up interview on  Julu  26,  2022.    This  psychologist,  who  testified  at  length  at  Applicant’s hearing,  determined  that  Applicant  met  the  criteria  for  Other  Specified  Personality Disorder, Mixed Personality Features.  The psychologist  noted  that  Applicant  exhibited  a  lack  of  candor  regarding  his  personal history, with a high level of defensiveness, and an exaggerated response to perceived 2 threats  throughout  his  evaluation  process.   He also noted that he was unable to complete the  second  interview  due  to  Applicant’s  defensive,  redundant,  and  non-responsive statements.   The psychologist opined that this conduct indicated a deficit in Applicant’s judgment that may impair his ability to safeguard classified information.  Guideline  E  –  Personal Conduct 2.a. Applicant denies that he knew he was “fired” from his employment in May of 2018 for conduct identified as “Poor Judgment/Policy Violation.” His employer’s Human Resources   department  “explained”  to Applicant,  as  reiterated by  his  then lawyer, that  no  “reason”  was  given,  just  that  he  departed  his  former  employment  by  “mutual agreement.”  Only  most  recently,  with  the  submission  of  the  Government’s  exhibits,  was  Applicant made aware that his termination was categorized as “fired.”  2.b. Applicant did not willfully falsify his October 2018 e-QIP when he answered, “No,”  to  Section  13A  –  Employment  Activities,  as  to  his  being  “fired”  in  the  last  seven years.    As  noted  above,  Applicant  thought  he  left  his  former employment by mutual agreement.  2.c. Applicant did not willfully falsify his October 2018 e-QIP when he answered, “No,” to Section 22 – Police Record ” which asked whether he had “EVER been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs.” In January of 1993, Applicant was pulled over on a Naval Base for a possible DUI .   The  allegation  was  dropped  at  a  “Captain’s  Mast”  ),  as  Applicant’s  blood/alcohol  ratio was  within  legal  limits.  Applicant  had  forgotten  about  this  incident,  that  occurred  more than  25  years  prior  to  him  executing  his  e-QIP,  until  he  was  questioned  about  the incident at his psychological evaluation in June of 2022.  2.d. Applicant did not willfully falsify material facts at his January 2019 Office of Personnel  Management    interview  regarding  him  being  pulled  over  on  a  Naval Base  for  a  possible  DUI.    Again,  the  allegation  was  dropped  at  a  “Captain’s Mast”  as Applicant’s blood/alcohol ratio was within legal limits. Applicant had forgotten about this incident, that occurred more than 26 years prior to his interview, until he was questioned  about  the  incident  at  his  psychological  evaluation  in  June  of  2022.   3 2.e.  Applicant did not willfully falsify material facts at his January 2019 Office of Personnel Management  interview regarding the circumstances surrounding him leaving  his  employment  in  May  of  2018.  As  noted  above,  under  the  findings  as  to Subparagraph  2.a.,  only  recently,  with  the  submission  of  the  Government’s  exhibits, was Applicant made aware that his termination was categorized as “fired.”  2.f.  Applicant did not willfully falsify material facts at his June 2022 psychological evaluation regarding the circumstances surrounding him leaving his employment in May of 2018. As noted above, under the findings as to Subparagraph 2.a., only recently, with the  submission  of  the  Government’s  exhibits,  was  Applicant  made  aware  that  his termination was categorized as “fired.” 2.g.  Applicant  did  not  willfully  falsify  material  facts  at  his  June  2022 psychological evaluation regarding him being pulled over on a Naval Base in January of 1993, for a possible DUI.  The allegation was dropped at a “Captain’s Mast” as Applicant’s blood/alcohol ratio was within legal limits. Applicant had forgotten about this incident,  that  occurred  more  than  29  years  prior  to  his  evaluation,  until  he  was questioned about the incident at his psychological evaluation. 