Applicant is 35 years old and single. He has a Bachelor of Science degree and has worked for his current employer since 2020. He has worked in the defense industry since 2008 and held a security clearance the majority of that time.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he  has  failed  to  meet  his  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant admitted both SOR allegations , with explanations. 1.a. Applicant admitted that he had not filed his Federal income tax returns in a timely manner for tax years 2013, 2014, and 2016. ) 1.b. Applicant admitted that he had not filed his state income tax returns in a timely manner for tax years 2013, 2014, and 2016. ) In Section 26 of Applicant’s e-QIP  Applicant admitted that he had not filed Federal or state taxes for at least tax year 2013. He further stated in the questionnaire,  “It  is  my  understanding  that  the  taxes  were  not  owed  based  on  normal paycheck  withholding  and  exemptions/credits  from  previous  years.”  The  questionnaire then asked what actions Applicant had taken. He stated, “No action has been taken as it 2 is assumed no amount is owed and only a filing is required. I intend to back-file for the applicable years as soon as possible.”  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  on February 14, 2019. During that interview Applicant was  asked about his failure to file Federal or state tax returns for 2013, 2014, and 2016. The report stated, “Subject [Applicant] filed tax extensions for each year but has not filed the required follow-up.  Subject did not follow up on sending in the taxes due to oversight. . . . Subject knows  he  is  responsible  for  filing  and  will  attempt  to  bring  everything  up  to  date  by February 2019.”  Turning first to Applicant’s 2016 Federal and  state tax  returns. After the hearing Applicant provided documentation from the IRS and his state tax agency showing that those returns were filed in a timely fashion in 2017.  With regard to his 2013 and 2014 Federal and state tax returns, Applicant admitted that he intended to file them from 2015 on, but it became too hard “because of my job duties, the amount of time I spend on the job, the amount of time I spend on travel.”  In fact, Applicant’s dilatory conduct with regard to the tax returns continued even after he received the Statement of Reasons.   According to Applicant, he finally filed his Federal 2013 and 2014 tax returns in May  2020.  However,  there  is  no  confirmation  from  the  IRS  that  they  were  actually received and Applicant did not follow up as of the date of the hearing. After the hearing Applicant  submitted  a  written  statement  saying  that  he  had  contacted  the  IRS  on December  9,  2020.  He  had  checked  their  website  and  these  two  tax  returns  were  not showing as filed. A representative allegedly told Applicant it was possible that the  IRS had received them, but due to Covid-19 the returns had not yet been entered into the IRS data base. No further information was provided.  Applicant did not file his state 2013 and 2014 tax returns in May 2020, at the same time he allegedly filed his Federal tax returns. Rather, according to Applicant, his filing of these  returns  was  complicated  by  a  proposed  assessment  from  the  state.  After  some questioning from Department Counsel about the current status of the returns, Applicant revealed that he had not filed his state tax returns, but they were actually sitting in his car to be mailed after his hearing.  The reason for his dilatoriness was described by Applicant as follows: Well, that’s because my - - what I intended to do here wasn’t necessarily to show that I had fully filed everything and closed everything out - - but that I was making efforts to address them, beginning with my Federal Forms and 3 then also with the State Form portion that I file today and then the last step would be any adjustments or priorities.  After the hearing Applicant submitted documentation from the state tax authority showing that his 2013 and 2014 returns were received on December 10, 2020.  Applicant’s  attention  was  also  drawn  to  several  delinquent  accounts  that  were found on his credit report and had been outstanding for a considerable period of time. Applicant  submitted  evidence  that  he  had  resolved  those  issues  after  the  hearing. However,  once  again,  Applicant  was  dilatory  in  resolving  these  items.   Mitigation Applicant  submitted  letters  of  recommendation  for  employment  from  former  co- workers. He also submitted his evaluations from his former employer. These documents show that he is a respected person in his field of endeavor.  