Appellant  moved  to  a  different  state  in  December  2019.  She  has  not  had  any contacts with her methamphetamine using boyfriend since August of 2019. She recently married. Her supervisor wrote that she is honest, trustworthy, and responsible. (AE A) He recommends approval of her security clearance. (Id.) Policies The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing, “no one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518,  528  (1988).  As  Commander  in  Chief,  the  President  has  the  authority  to  control 4 access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865,  Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry § 2 (Feb. 20, 1960), as amended. Eligibility  for  a  security  clearance  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the criteria contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the  complexities  of  human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are applied in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative judge’s overarching  adjudicative  goal  is  a  fair,  impartial,  and  commonsense  decision.  An administrative  judge  must  consider all available,  reliable  information  about  the  person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable. The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible  risk  the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard  classified information. Such decisions  entail a  certain degree  of  legally permissible  extrapolation about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Clearance decisions  must  be  “in  terms  of  the  national  interest  and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the  applicant  concerned.”  See  Exec.  Or.  10865  §  7. Thus, nothing in this decision should be construed to suggest that it is based, in whole or in part, on any express or implied determination about applicant’s allegiance, loyalty, or patriotism.  It  is merely an  indication the applicant  has  not  met  the strict  guidelines  the President, Secretary of Defense, and Director of National Intelligence have established for issuing a clearance. Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the personal or professional history of  the applicant  that  may disqualify the  applicant from being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of establishing  controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan,  484  U.S.  at  531. “Substantial evidence” is “more than  a  scintilla but less than  a  preponderance.”  See v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria listed  therein  and  an  applicant’s  security  suitability.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  95-0611  at  2 (App. Bd. May 2, 1996). Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR  Case  No.  01-20700  at  3  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  19,  2002).  The  burden  of  disproving  a mitigating condition never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005). “[S]ecurity clearance  determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 2(b). 5 Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse Analysis AG  ¶  24  provides  the  security  concern  arising  from  drug  involvement  and substance misuse stating: The   illegal  use   of   controlled   substances,   to   include   the   misuse   of prescription   and   non-prescription   drugs,  and   the   use   of   other  substances that  cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are  used   in  a   manner inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose   can   raise   questions  about  an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness, both because such behavior may lead  to  physical or psychological impairment and  because  it  raises questions about  a   person’s  ability   or  willingness  to   comply   with   laws,  rules,  and regulations.  Controlled   substance   means  any   “controlled   substance”   as defined  in 21  U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the  generic term  adopted  in this guideline  to  describe any of the behaviors listed above. DNI  Memorandum  ES  2014-00674,  “Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting Marijuana Use,” October 25, 2014, states: [C]hanges  to  state  laws and  the  laws of the  District of  Columbia pertaining to   marijuana   use   do   not  alter  the   existing   National  Security   Adjudicative Guidelines   .   . .  .   An   individual’s  disregard  of federal law   pertaining   to   the use,  sale,  or manufacture  of  marijuana   remains  adjudicatively   relevant  in national  security   determinations.  As  always,  adjudicative   authorities  are expected   to   evaluate   claimed   or  developed   use   of,  or  involvement  with, marijuana  using  the  current adjudicative  criteria. The adjudicative  authority must   determine   if  the   use   of,   or   involvement  with,  marijuana   raises questions  about  the   individual’s  judgment,   reliability,  trustworthiness,  and willingness  to   comply  with   law,  rules,  and   regulations,  including   federal laws,  when   making   eligibility   decisions  of   persons  proposed   for,  or occupying, sensitive national security positions. Recently, the  Security  Executive  Agent (SecEA) promulgated  clarifying  guidance concerning   marijuana-related   issues   in  security   clearance   adjudications.   It   states  in pertinent part: [Federal] agencies are instructed that prior recreational marijuana use by an individual  may  be  relevant  to  adjudications  but  not  determinative.  The SecEA  has  provided  direction  in  [the  adjudicative  guidelines]  to  agencies that  requires  them  to  use  a  “whole-person  concept.”  This  requires adjudicators to carefully weigh a number of variables in an individual's life to determine whether that individual's behavior raises a security concern, if at all,  and  whether that  concern  has  been  mitigated  such  that  the  individual may  now  receive  a favorable  adjudicative  determination.  Relevant mitigations include, but are not limited to, frequency of use and whether the 6 individual can  demonstrate  that  future use  is unlikely  to  recur, including  by signing  an  attestation  or  other such  appropriate  mitigation. Additionally, in light of the  long-standing  federal law  and  policy  prohibiting  illegal drug  use while   occupying   a   sensitive   position   or  holding   a   security   clearance, agencies are  encouraged  to  advise prospective  national  security  workforce employees  that   they   should   refrain   from   any   future   marijuana   use   upon initiation   of  the   national  security   vetting   process,  which  commences  once the  individual signs the  certification  contained  in the  Standard Form  86  (SF- 86), Questionnaire  for National Security Positions.1 AG ¶ 25 provides two conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying  in  this  case:  “(a)  any  substance  misuse  (see  above  definition)”;  and  “(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance. . . .” The record establishes AG ¶¶ 25(a) and 25(c). Additional information is contained in the mitigation section, infra. AG ¶ 26 lists four conditions that could mitigate security concerns: (a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,   or  happened under such  circumstances that  it is  unlikely  to  recur or does  not cast  doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; (b) the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem, and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and (3)  providing  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug involvement  and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security eligibility; (c)  abuse  of  prescription  drugs  was  after  a  severe  or  prolonged  illness during which these drugs were prescribed, and abuse has since ended; and (d)  satisfactory  completion  of  a  prescribed  drug  treatment  program, including,  but  not  limited  to,  rehabilitation  and  aftercare  requirements, without recurrence of abuse, and a favorable prognosis by a duly qualified medical professional. 1 Security  Executive  Agent  Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for  Agencies  Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position, dated December 21, 2021 (SecEA Clarifying Guidance), at page 2. 7 In  ISCR  Case  No.  10-04641  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Sept.  24,  2013),  the  DOHA  Appeal Board  concisely  explained  Applicant’s  responsibility  for  proving  the  applicability  of mitigating conditions as follows: Once   a   concern  arises  regarding   an   Applicant’s   security   clearance eligibility, there is a  strong  presumption  against the  grant or maintenance  of a   security   clearance.  See   Dorfmont  v.   Brown, 913   F.   2d  1399,   1401   (9th Cir.  1990),  cert.   denied,   499   U.S.   905   (1991).   After  the   Government presents   evidence   raising   security   concerns,  the   burden   shifts   to   the applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See  Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The standard  applicable  in   security   clearance   decisions  is  that  articulated   in Egan, supra. “Any  doubt concerning  personnel being  considered  for  access to  classified  information  will be  resolved  in favor of the  national security.” Directive, Enclosure 2, [App. A] ¶  2(b). None  of  the  mitigating  conditions  fully  apply;  however,  Applicant  provided  some important  mitigating  information.  She  voluntarily  disclosed  her  methamphetamine possession and use, during her OPM ESI, and she disclosed her methamphetamine and marijuana  use  in  her  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  SOR  response,  and  at  her hearing. She has never been arrested for a drug-related offense. She indicated she was willing to abstain from future marijuana and methamphetamine possession and use. The evidence against mitigation is more persuasive at this time. In ISCR Case No. 16-03460 at 4 (App. Bd. May 24, 2018), the applicant had a history of marijuana use, and the Appeal Board said: A  clearance  adjudication  is  aimed  at  determining  if  an  applicant  has  the requisite  judgment  and  reliability  to  abide  by  rules  designed  to  protect classified information. . . . [Security concerns arise if] there is doubt as to whether  he  [or  she]  will  follow  the  regulatory  requirements  for  handling classified  information,  which  might,  in  the  event,  appear  burdensome. Access to national secrets entails a fiduciary duty to the U.S. A person who enters into such a fiduciary relationship is charged with abiding by legal and regulatory guidance regardless of whether he or she believes that guidance to be wise. Possession of a Schedule I or II controlled substance is a federal criminal offense. Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as referred to in the Controlled Substances Act are contained in  21  U.S.C.  §  812(c).  Marijuana  is  a  Schedule  I  controlled  substance,  and methamphetamine  is  a  Schedule  II  controlled  substance.  See  Drug  Enforcement Administration,  Drug  Scheduling  listing  at  https://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug- scheduling/.  See  also  Gonzales  v.  Raish,  545  U.S.  1  (2005)  (discussing  placement  of marijuana on Schedule I). The SOR did not allege under Guideline H that Applicant tested positive during her probation urinalysis test in August 2019 for methamphetamine, and it did not allege she failed to disclose her marijuana use in January 2020 during her April 15, 2020 OPM ESI. 8 In ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board listed five circumstances in which conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating: (a)  to   assess  an   applicant’s  credibility;  (b)  to   evaluate   an   applicant’s evidence   of   extenuation,  mitigation,  or   changed   circumstances;   (c)   to consider  whether an  applicant  has demonstrated  successful  rehabilitation; (d) to  decide  whether  a  particular  provision  of the  Adjudicative  Guidelines is applicable;  or  (e)  to   provide   evidence   for  whole  person   analysis  under Directive Section 6.3. Id. (citing  ISCR  Case  No.  02-07218  at 3  (App. Bd.  Mar.  15, 2004);  ISCR  Case  No.  00- 0633  at 3  (App. Bd.  Oct.  24, 2003)). See  also  ISCR  Case  No. 12-09719  at 3  (App. Bd. Apr.  6, 2016) (citing  ISCR  Case  No.  14-00151  at  3,  n.  1  (App.  Bd. Sept.  12, 2014); IS  CR Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  (App. Bd.  Oct.  26, 2006)). The  non-SOR  allegation  will not  be considered except  for the  five purposes listed  above. Applicant  possessed  and  used  marijuana  and  methamphetamine  even  though  she was  aware that  she   held   a   security   clearance.  She   knew   possession   of methamphetamine   was  illegal.  An   applicant   who   uses  illegal  drugs  after  having   been placed  on  notice  of its employment  or security  significance  “may  be  lacking  in the  qualities expected   of   those   with   access   to   national  secrets.”  See   generally   ISCR   Case   No.  17- 03191 at 3 (App. Bd.  Mar. 26, 2019) (citing ISCR Case No. 17-04198  at 2 (App. Bd. Jan. 15,  2019)  (“An   applicant’s  misuse   of  drugs  after  having   been   placed   on   notice   of   the incompatibility  of  drug  abuse  with  clearance  eligibility  raises questions about his or her judgment and  reliability”)). Applicant  may  have  family  and  friends  who  use  marijuana, and she  may be in the  vicinity of  marijuana in  the  future. More  time  without  marijuana  and  methamphetamine  possession  and  use  must elapse before I will be able to confidently rule out future  involvement with illegal drugs. Guideline H security concerns are not mitigated at this time. Financial Considerations AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial problems: lack  of indicate  poor  self-control, Failure  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial judgment,  or obligations  may unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to engage in illegal or otherwise questionable acts to generate funds. 9 The  Appeal  Board  explained the  scope  and  rationale  for  the  financial considerations security concern in ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012) (citation omitted) as follows: This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  applicant  might knowingly  compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money  in satisfaction of his or her debts. Rather, it requires a Judge to examine the totality  of  an  applicant’s  financial  history  and  circumstances.  The  Judge must  consider  pertinent  evidence  regarding  the  applicant’s  self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting the national secrets as well  as  the  vulnerabilities  inherent  in  the  circumstances.  The  Directive presumes  a  nexus  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  Guidelines and an applicant’s security eligibility. AG ¶ 19 includes disqualifying conditions that could raise a security concern and may be disqualifying in this case: “(a) inability to satisfy debts”; and “(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.” In  ISCR  Case  No.  08-12184  at  7  (App.  Bd.  Jan.  7,  2010),  the  Appeal  Board explained: It is well-settled that adverse information from a credit report can normally meet the substantial evidence standard and the government’s obligations under [Directive] ¶ E3.1.14 for pertinent allegations. At that point, the burden shifts to applicant to establish either that [he or] she is not responsible for the debt or that matters in mitigation apply. (internal  citation  omitted).  The  record  establishes  the  disqualifying  conditions  in  AG ¶¶  19(a)  and  19(c),  requiring  additional  inquiry  about  the  possible  applicability  of mitigating  conditions.  Discussion  of  the  disqualifying  conditions  is  contained  in  the mitigation section, infra. The financial considerations mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20 are as follows: (a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or  occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not cast doubt on the individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; (b) the  conditions  that resulted  in the  financial problem  were largely  beyond the   person’s  control  (e.g.,   loss  of   employment,   a   business  downturn, unexpected   medical  emergency,  a   death,   divorce  or  separation,   clear victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,  or  identity   theft),  and   the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; (c)  the  individual has  received  or  is  receiving  financial  counseling for  the problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit credit 10 counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem is being resolved or is under control; (d)  the  individual  initiated  and  is  adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort  to  repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and (e)  the  individual  has a  reasonable  basis  to dispute  the  legitimacy of  the past-due debt which is the cause of the problem and provides documented proof to substantiate the basis of the dispute or provides evidence of actions to resolve the issue. Applicant described a circumstance beyond her control, which adversely affected her  finances.  Her  boyfriend  charged  purchases  on  her  credit  cards  without  her permission. However, “[e]ven if applicant’s financial difficulties initially arose, in whole or in part, due to circumstances outside  his [or her] control, the  judge could still consider whether  applicant  has  since  acted  in  a  reasonable  manner  when  dealing  with  those financial difficulties.” ISCR Case No. 05-11366 at 4 n.9 (App. Bd. Jan. 12, 2007) (citing ISCR Case No. 03-13096 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 29, 2005); ISCR Case No. 99-0462 at 4 (App. Bd. May 25, 2000); ISCR Case No. 99-0012 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec. 1, 1999)). Another component under AG ¶ 20(a) is whether Applicant maintained contact with several SOR creditors and attempted to negotiate partial payments to keep debts current. She did not prove that she maintained contact with several of her SOR creditors or that she made offers to make partial payments to them prior to receipt of the SOR. An administrative judge is “required to examine  all the circumstances surrounding the   debts  and   their   eventual  satisfaction”  including   the   timing   of   any   settlements, applicant’s salary  for the  past several years, and   whether a  debt or debts “had  already been  reduced  to  judgment.”  ISCR  Case  No.  20-01656  at  5  (App.  Bd.  Mar. 31, 2022) (citing ISCR  Case  No.  03-04704  at  4  (App.  Bd. Sep. 21,  2005)).  The  Appeal Board  has noted, “an   applicant   who   resolves  financial  problems  after  being   placed   on   notice   his  or  her security  clearance  may  be  in  jeopardy  may  lack the  judgment and  self  discipline  to  follow rules and  regulations  over time  or when  there  is no  immediate  threat to  his  [or her]  own interests.”  ISCR  Case  No.  17-01213  (App. Bd. June  29,  2018)  (citing  ISCR  Case  No. 14- 05476 at 4 (App. Bd. Mar. 25, 2016)). Applicant paid all of her SOR debts except for SOR ¶ 1.a for $4,852. She assured she  will  pay  this  debt  when  able  to  do  so.  Applicant  and  her  husband’s  gross  annual income  is  about  $160,000.  She  provided  convincing  evidence  that  she  will  be  able  to maintain  her  financial  responsibility.  There  is  sufficient  evidence  that  her  financial problems will not recur in the future. Under all the circumstances, she mitigated financial considerations security concerns. 11 Personal Conduct AG ¶ 15 explains why personal conduct is a security concern stating: Conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise  questions about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect classified  or  sensitive  information.  Of  special  interest  is  any  failure  to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security investigative or adjudicative processes. The SOR alleges three disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 16 that are relevant in this case. AG ¶¶ 16(c), 16(d)(3), and 16(e)(1) provide: (c) credible adverse information in several adjudicative issue areas that is not sufficient for an adverse determination under any other single guideline, but  which,  when  considered  as  a  whole,  supports  a  whole-person assessment of questionable judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of  candor,  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  or  other characteristics  indicating  that  the  individual  may  not  properly  safeguard classified or sensitive information; (d)  credible  adverse  information  that  is  not  explicitly  covered  under  any other  guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient  by  itself  for  an  adverse determination,  but  which,  when  combined  with  all  available  information judgment, supports  a  whole-person  assessment  of  questionable untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other characteristics indicating that the person may not properly safeguard classified or sensitive information. This includes but is  not  limited  to  consideration  of:  .  .  .  (3) a  pattern  of  dishonesty  or  rule violations; and (e) personal conduct, or concealment of information about one's conduct, that  creates  a  vulnerability  to  exploitation,  manipulation,  or  duress  by  a foreign  intelligence  entity  or  other  individual  or  group.  Such  conduct includes: (1) engaging in activities which, if known, may affect the person's personal, professional, or community standing . . . . The  evidence  establishes  AG  ¶¶  16(c),  16(d)(3),  and  16(e)  requiring  additional inquiry  about  the  possible  applicability  of  mitigating  conditions.  Discussion  of  the disqualifying conditions is contained in the mitigation section, infra. The personal conduct mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17 that are relevant to this case are as follows: (c) the offense is so minor, or so much time has passed, or the behavior is so  infrequent,  or  it  happened  under  such  unique  circumstances  that  it  is 12 unlikely  to  recur  and  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  individual's  reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment; (d) the individual has acknowledged the behavior and obtained counseling to  change  the  behavior  or  taken  other  positive  steps  to  alleviate  the stressors,  circumstances,  or  factors  that  contributed  to  untrustworthy, unreliable, or other inappropriate behavior, and such behavior is unlikely to recur; and (e) the individual has taken positive steps to reduce or eliminate vulnerability to exploitation, manipulation, or duress. Applicant possessed and used marijuana or methamphetamine or both in 2018, 2019, and 2020. These offenses are already alleged  in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. They are sufficient for an adverse determination under Guideline H. SOR ¶ 2.a is mitigated as a duplication. Applicant shoplifted four to six times in 2018, and she was arrested four times for shoplifting. Her involvement with her boyfriend at the time, who was a thief and drug user was responsible in part for her bad decisions. Her shoplifting has not recurred since 2018 and is not recent. SOR ¶¶ 2.b through 2.e are mitigated. Security officials are aware of Applicant’s drug involvement and substance misuse and  four  misdemeanor  convictions  for  shoplifting-related  offenses.  Personal  conduct security concerns are mitigated. Whole-Person Concept Under  the  whole-person  concept,  the  administrative  judge  must  evaluate  an applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance by considering the totality of the applicant’s conduct  and  all  the  circumstances.  The  administrative  judge  should  consider  the  nine adjudicative process factors listed at AG ¶ 2(d): the   nature,   extent,   and   seriousness   of to the the   conduct;   (2) (1) circumstances  surrounding include   knowledgeable the   conduct, participation;   (3)  the   frequency   and   recency   of   the   conduct;  (4)  the individual’s  age   and  maturity   at  the   time   of  the   conduct;   (5) the   extent  to which participation  is voluntary; (6) the  presence  or absence  of  rehabilitation and  other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the  motivation  for the  conduct; (8) the  potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and  (9) the likelihood  of continuation or recurrence. Under  AG  ¶  2(c),  “[t]he  ultimate  determination”  of  whether  to  grant  a  security clearance “must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of  the  guidelines” and the  whole-person concept. My comments under Guidelines H, F, and E are incorporated in my whole-person analysis. Some of the factors in AG ¶ 2(d) were addressed under those guidelines but some warrant additional comment. 13 Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  project  management  analyst  who  has  worked  for her current  DOD  contractor  employer  since  February  2020.  In  2011,  she  received  her bachelor’s degree, and in  2013, she  received  a master’s degree  in criminal justice and behavioral analysis. She has held a security clearance since October 2011. There is no evidence of security violations. Applicant  disclosed  her  marijuana  and  methamphetamine  possession  and  use during her OPM ESI or DOHA interrogatories or both, on her SOR response, and at her hearing. An honest and candid self-report of drug abuse is an important indication that, if granted security clearance eligibility, the individual would disclose any threats to national security, even if the disclosure involves an issue that might damage his or her own career or  personal  reputation.  However,  the  mitigating  weight  of  Applicant’s  disclosures  is undermined by her marijuana and methamphetamine possession and use while holding a  security clearance.  Her methamphetamine  use as  recently as August  2019,  and her marijuana use as recently as January 2020 are too recent to be fully mitigated at this time. It  is  well  settled  that  once  a  concern  arises  regarding  an  applicant’s  security clearance eligibility, there is a strong presumption against granting a security clearance. See Dorfmont, 913 F. 2d at 1401. “[A] favorable clearance decision means that the record discloses  no  basis  for  doubt  about  an  applicant’s  eligibility  for  access  to  classified information.”  ISCR Case No. 18-02085 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 3, 2020) (citing ISCR Case No. 12-00270 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 17, 2014)). This decision should not be construed as a determination that Applicant cannot or will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future. With more effort towards establishing a track record of abstention from possession and use of illegal drugs, and a better record of behavior consistent with her obligations, she may  well  be  able  to  demonstrate  persuasive  evidence  of  her  security  clearance worthiness. I have carefully applied the law, as set forth in Egan, Exec. Or. 10865, the Directive, the  AGs,  and  the  Appeal  Board’s  jurisprudence  to  the  facts  and  circumstances  in  the context  of  the  whole  person.  Applicant  mitigated  personal  conduct  and  financial considerations security concerns; however, she failed to mitigate drug involvement and substance misuse security concerns. 14 Formal Findings Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Paragraph  1, Guideline  H: AGAINST  APPLICANT Subparagraphs  1.a  and 1.b: Against  Applicant Paragraph  2, Guideline E: FOR Applicant Subparagraphs  2.a through 2.e: For Applicant Paragraph  3, Guideline F: FOR APPLICANT Subparagraphs 3.a through 3.e: For Applicant In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is  not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. ______________________ Mark Harvey Administrative Judge 15 