At the end of Applicant’s hearing, I  discussed keeping the record open to afford her the  opportunity to submit additional mitigating evidence.  Her SIL  stated  she  would assist  her  in  evaluating  and  pursuing  her  options.  (Tr.  60-65)  Post-hearing,  Applicant forwarded an email to me thanking me for keeping the record open. She informed me that she looked into various options to regain financial responsibility and none of those options  were  feasible  for  her  at  this  time.  She  concluded  saying  that  she  is  a  very honest and trustworthy person and would never jeopardize her job that she has worked very hard to obtain and maintain for the last 14 years. (AE M) Policies This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (EO)  10865,  Safeguarding Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security  Clearance  Review Program  (January 2, 1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  adjudicative  guidelines  (AG),  which  became effective on June 8, 2017. When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability the administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list  potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information. for  a  security  clearance, 4 These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the complexities  of  human  behavior,  administrative  judges  apply  the  guidelines  in conjunction  with  the  factors  listed  in  AG  ¶  2,  describing  the  adjudicative  process.  The administrative impartial,  and commonsense  decision.  According to  AG  ¶ 2(c),  the  entire  process  is a  conscientious scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the  “whole-person  concept.”  The administrative  judge  must  consider all available,  reliable  information  about  the  person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision. judge’s  overarching  adjudicative  goal is  a fair, The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is responsible  for presenting  “witnesses  and  other  evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or  mitigate  facts  admitted  by  the  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel.”  The applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  clearance  favorable decision. the  Government  predicated  upon A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary relationship  with trust  and  confidence.  This relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the  possible  risk  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified information. Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be  “in  terms of the national  interest  and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information). Financial Considerations Analysis AG ¶ 18 articulates the security concern for financial considerations: indicate   poor  self-control, Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial obligations  may judgment,   or unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other lack  of 5 issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence. An individual  who  is  financially  overextended  is  at  greater  risk  of  having  to engage  in  illegal  or  otherwise  questionable  acts  to  generate  funds. Affluence that cannot be explained by known sources of income is also a security  concern  insofar  as  it  may  result  from  criminal  activity,  including espionage. In ISCR Case No. 08-12184 at 7 (App. Bd. Jan. 7, 2010), the Appeal Board explained: It  is well-settled  that adverse information  from  a  credit report can  normally meet the  substantial evidence  standard and  the  government’s obligations under  [Directive]  ¶   E3.1.14   for  pertinent   allegations.  At  that   point,   the burden   shifts  to   applicant  to   establish   either  that   [he   or]  she   is  not responsible  for the  debt or that matters in  mitigation apply. Id. (internal citation omitted). AG ¶  19  provides two  disqualifying  conditions that could  raise  a  security  concern and  may  be  disqualifying  in this case: “(a) inability  to  satisfy  debts;” and  “(c) a  history  of not meeting  financial obligations.” The  record  established  the  disqualifying  conditions in AG  ¶¶   19(a)  and   19(c),   requiring   additional  inquiry   about   the   possible   applicability   of mitigating   conditions.   Discussion   of  the   disqualifying   conditions  is  contained   in   the mitigation section, infra. AG ¶ 20 lists seven potential mitigating conditions: (a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,   or  occurred under  such   circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to   recur  and   does  not  cast doubt  on   the   individual's  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good judgment; (b)  the   conditions   that  resulted   in  the   financial  problem   were  largely beyond   the   person's  control  (e.g.,   loss  of   employment,   a   business downturn, unexpected  medical emergency, a  death, divorce or separation, clear victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices, or identity  theft),  and  the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; (c)   the   individual has  received   or  is  receiving   financial  counseling   for  the problem  from  a  legitimate  and  credible  source,  such  as  a  non-profit  credit counseling   service,   and   there  are  clear  indications  that  the   problem   is being resolved or is under control; (d)  the   individual  initiated   and   is  adhering   to   a   good-faith   effort  to   repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; 6 (e)  the   individual  has   a   reasonable  basis  to   dispute   the   legitimacy   of   the past-due   debt  which the   problem   and   provides documented   proof  to   substantiate   the   basis   of  the   dispute   or  provides evidence of actions to  resolve the issue; the   cause   of is (f) the affluence resulted  from a legal source of income; and (g)  the   individual  has  made   arrangements  with   the   appropriate   tax authority   to   file   or  pay   the   amount  owed   and   is  in   compliance   with   those arrangements. The  Appeal  Board  concisely  explained  Applicant’s  responsibility  for  proving  the applicability of mitigating conditions as follows: Once   a   concern  arises  regarding   an   Applicant’s   security   clearance eligibility, there is a  strong  presumption  against the  grant or maintenance of a security clearance. See Dorfmont v. Brown, 913 F. 2d 1399, 1401 (9th Cir.  1990),  cert.   denied,   499   U.S.   905   (1991).   After  the   Government presents   evidence   raising   security   concerns,  the   burden   shifts   to   the applicant to rebut or mitigate those concerns. See  Directive ¶ E3.1.15. The standard  applicable  in   security   clearance   decisions  is  that  articulated   in Egan,  supra.  “Any   doubt   concerning   personnel  being   considered   for access  to   classified   information   will  be   resolved   in  favor  of  the   national security.” Directive, Enclosure 2  ¶ 2(b). ISCR Case No. 10-04641 at 4 (App. Bd. Sept. 24, 2013). In  summary,  no  mitigating  conditions  fully  apply.  In  addition  to  evaluating  the facts  and  applying  the  appropriate  adjudicative  factors  under  Guideline  F,  I  have reviewed the record before me in the context of the whole-person factors listed in AG ¶ 2(d). Applicant has been gainfully employed for the majority of her adult life, and she is presumed  to  be  a  mature,  responsible  citizen.  Nonetheless,  without  other  information suggesting  her  long-standing  financial  problems  are  being  addressed,  doubts  remain about  her  suitability  for  access  to  classified  information.  Protection  of  the  national interest  is the  principal  focus  of  these  adjudications.  According,  those  doubts  must  be resolved against Applicant. While  the   debts   alleged   in  the   SOR  arguably   resulted   in   large   part  from circumstances  beyond   Applicant’s  control  due   to   her  husband’s  stroke   and   disability, her middle  daughter’s rehabilitation  costs,  and  her mother moving  into  her home,  that is only  half  of  the  analysis and  Applicant’s response  to  her financial problems must be  the second  consideration. Applicant was unable to  submit sufficient evidence  to  supplement the   record  with   relevant  and   material  evidence   to   mitigate   the   financial  security concerns.  There is no  evidence  that she  maintained  contact with  her creditors after her 15  accounts  when  she  was unable  to  make  her payments.  She  did  not pursue  financial counseling   or  other  avenues  of  regaining   financial  responsibility.   By   failing   to   provide such information,  financial considerations security concerns remain. 7 This decision should not  be  construed  as a determination that  Applicant  cannot or will not attain the state of reform necessary for award of a security clearance in the future.  Applicant  is  a  hard-working  and  intelligent  individual.  With  more  effort  towards documented  resolution  of  her  past-due  debts,  and  a  better  track  record  of  behavior consistent  with  her  obligations,  she  may  well  be  able  to  demonstrate  persuasive evidence of her security clearance worthiness. Formal Findings Formal findings for or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Paragraph  1, Guideline F: AGAINST APPLICANT Subparagraphs 1.a  –  1.p: Against Applicant In  light  of  the  record  as  a  whole,  it  is  not  clearly  consistent  with  the  national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Clearance is denied. _________________________ ROBERT TUIDER Administrative Judge 8 