[Applicant] has enjoyed mild to moderate drinking of beer and whiskey for much of his adult life. It became a problem for him three years ago, when his drinking increased, and combined with cannabis use, sleep deprivation (due  to  his  youngest  child  having  sleep  problems  and  requiring  care  at night)  and  stress  at  work,  he  developed  a  mood  disorder  for  which  he sought  and  received  successful  treatment.  It  is  unlikely  that  this  mood disorder (Substance Induced Mood Disorder) will reoccur. He sleeps well, his  child  is  doing  well,  he  no  longer  smokes  marijuana,  and  his  work situation has dramatically improved. Treatment  three  years  ago  was  successful.  He  has  learned  to  maintain regular mild to moderate use of alcohol. He currently drinks mildly, between one and three times a week, on or two drinks on each occasion. To have a diagnosed  alcohol  condition,  a  person  must  meet  at  last  two  of  eleven criteria  over the  last twelve  months.  The  only sign  that  [Applicant] shows are occasional cravings, his drinking has never affected any important life functions,  and  he  has  never  developed  tolerance  or  suffered  withdrawal symptoms.  Mild  to  moderate  alcohol  consumption,  without  any  other challenges, is not an alcohol problem and does not cause other difficulties. Dr. Two submitted an Addendum dated January 20, 2023. (Applicant Exhibit G.) It states: I would like to clarify that I reviewed that entire record, including notes from [PNP]  [Applicant  Exhibit  I).  In  February 2022,  she  noted  that  alcohol use was  not  affecting  any  significant  life  function.  In  May  2022,  she  noted increased alcohol use, that again did not affect work or any other important life functions. This does not qualify as a disorder. At this time, she also used the term binge drink, which is incorrect, as [Applicant] emphatically states that this was incorrect, that he would not drink an entire bottle in one sitting, but over the course of several days. In September 2022, she also reported some  alcohol  use,  again  not  affecting  work,  relationships  or  any  other important  life  skill.  Throughout  her  record,  she  reports  that  medication helped him maintain his mood. I stand by my impression that he has never qualified  as  having  an  alcohol  disorder  based  on  the  DSM  5  definition. Though he drinks sometimes to excess, this is at home, not at work, does not  affect  his  relationships,  work  or  any  other  life  function,  he  is  not 5 dependent, has never developed withdrawal symptoms, has never missed work due to alcohol use, does not currently experience cravings. Paragraph 2 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions) The DoD CAF alleged in this paragraph of the SOR that Applicant is not eligible for access because he has an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. He denied SOR 2.a. He admitted in part and denied in part SOR 2.b. He denied SOR 2.c. SOR paragraph 2.a. references Applicant’s receiving mental health treatment as part of the factual statement.  Paragraph 27 of the Adjudicative Guidelines (AG), which sets forth the concern under this guideline, states in pertinent part, “No negative inference concerning the standards in this guideline may be raised solely on the basis of mental health  counseling.”  In  addition,  the  Defense  Counterintelligence  and  Security  Agency factsheet, “Mental Health and Security Clearances,” states in part, “Seeking mental health services does not affect one’s ability to gain or hold security eligibility. Adjudicators regard seeking necessary mental health treatment as a positive step in the security clearance process.” (Defense Counterintelligence and Security Agency Mental Health and Security Clearances, https://www.dcsa.mil/Portals/91/Documents/  pv/DODCAF/resources/DCSA- FactSheet  Mental-Health  SecurityClearances-Oct21.pdf (accessed  September  5, 2023.) 2.a.  There  is  little  to  no  support  for  the  allegation  that  Applicant  has  been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. The only evidence is an affirmative statement by him in answer to Section 21 “Psychological and Emotional Health” on Government Exhibit 1 that asked whether he had “EVER been diagnosed by a physician . . . with . . . bipolar mood disorder.” He stated that he answered the question this way because of a statement made to him by one of his therapists during his first 30-day outpatient treatment that some of his conduct could indicate a bipolar disorder. However, there is no diagnosis of bipolar disorder found anywhere in the available medical records. He testified that both Dr. One and  Dr.  Two  stated  they  did  not  believe  Applicant  suffered  from  a  bipolar  disorder. (Government Exhibit 1; Tr. 20, 49-52.) 2.b. Applicant admitted, and the available medical records confirm, that he suffers from depression and anxiety. He is receiving therapy for it, and is also on medication. He further stated that therapy and medication are helping control his depression and anxiety. He  is  also  attempting to  obtain  additional  individual  therapy  with  a  psychologist.  He  is currently on a waitlist for this provider. (Tr. 52-56; Government Exhibits 3 and 4; Applicant Exhibits I and L.) 6 2.c. The Government alleged that Doctor One’s diagnosis of Applicant as currently suffering from Alcohol Use Disorder, Moderate, is cognizable under this guideline as well. Applicant denied this allegation. Mitigation Applicant has been a successful employee at Company A. His current supervisor testified  and  supplied  a  letter  on  his  behalf.  He  has  known  Applicant  since  2015  at Company A and Company B, and has been his supervisor at both companies for more than three years. He described Applicant as a “great” employee. He further testified that he has not seen any evidence of alcohol or mental health issues with Applicant. He further stated that he has entrusted Applicant with large projects and stated he trusts Applicant not to reveal classified or proprietary data. (Tr. 77-88; Applicant Exhibit F at 6.) Another supervisor of Applicant’s at both Company A and Company B submitted a  very  laudatory  letter  on  his  behalf.  He  described  Applicant  as  having  “the  highest integrity.” (Applicant Exhibit F at 1-2.) Peer  feedback  from  fellow  employees  of  Company  A  in  2022  was  extremely favorable. (Tr. 56-59; Applicant Exhibit B.) Policies When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  national  security  eligibility,  the administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  (AG)  list potentially  disqualifying  conditions  and  mitigating  conditions,  which  are  to  be  used  in evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility. These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the complexities  of  human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in  conjunction  with  the factors listed in AG ¶ 2 describing  the  adjudicative process. The  administrative  judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. The entire process is a conscientious scrutiny of applicable guidelines in the context of a number of variables known as the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider all  available,  reliable  information  about  the  person,  past  and  present,  favorable  and unfavorable, in making a decision. The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b) requires,  “Any  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence 7 contained  in  the  record.  I  have  not  drawn  inferences  based  on  mere  speculation  or conjecture. Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  requires  the  Government  to  present  evidence  to  establish controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  “The  applicant  is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel, and has the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable clearance decision.” A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants national security eligibility. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk the applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  protect  or  safeguard  classified information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified or sensitive information. Finally, as emphasized in Section 7 of Executive Order 10865, “Any determination under this order adverse to an applicant shall be a determination in terms of the national interest and  shall  in no  sense be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty of  the  applicant concerned.” See also Executive Order 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access to classified or sensitive information.) Paragraph 1  (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption) Analysis The security concerns relating to the guideline for alcohol consumption are set out in AG ¶ 21, which states: Excessive alcohol consumption often  leads to  the  exercise  of questionable judgment or the  failure  to  control impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about an individual's reliability and trustworthiness. AG ¶ 22 describes three conditions that could raise security concerns and may be disqualifying in this case: (c)   habitual  or  binge  consumption  of  alcohol  to  the  point  of  impaired judgment,  regardless  of  whether  the  individual  is  diagnosed  with  alcohol use disorder; 8 (d) diagnosis by a  duly qualified  medical or mental health  professional  (e.g., physician,   clinical  psychologist,  psychiatrist,   or  licensed   clinical   social worker) of alcohol use  disorder; and (e) the failure to follow treatment advice once  diagnosed. Applicant has a history of excessive alcohol use, including binge drinking, which continued through November 2022. He was diagnosed by a DoD mental health consultant with  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  Moderate  in  July  2022.  He  received  treatment  for  a  mood disorder in 2019, which included a recommendation that he not consume alcohol. All three of  the  cited  disqualifying  conditions  apply,  thereby  shifting  the  burden  to  Applicant  to mitigate them. The  guideline  at  AG  ¶  23  contains  four  conditions  that  could  mitigate  alcohol consumption security concerns. (a)  so   much   time   has   passed,  or  the   behavior  was  so   infrequent,   or  it happened  under such  unusual circumstances that it is unlikely to  recur or does not cast doubt on the  individual’s current reliability, trustworthiness or judgment; (b) the   individual acknowledges   his or her pattern   of   maladaptive  alcohol use, provides  evidence  of actions taken  to  overcome  this problem,  and  has demonstrated  a  clear and  established  pattern  of modified  consumption  or abstinence in accordance with  treatment recommendations; (c)  the  individual is participating  in counseling  or a  treatment program, has no   previous  history  of   treatment  and   relapse,  and   is  making   satisfactory progress in a treatment program; and (d)  the  individual  has  successfully  completed  a  treatment  program  along with any required aftercare, and has demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified consumption or abstinence in accordance with treatment recommendations. None of these mitigating conditions was sufficiently established by the evidence in this case. Applicant has had a problem with alcohol for several years. He took a three- month leave of absence from his job in 2019 to obtain mental health treatment for stress, which included excessive alcohol use. He admitted that he still uses alcohol as a means to self-medicate during times of stress or depression through late 2022. I have considered all the medical records contained in this case and have incorporated them in my findings. Insufficient time has passed since Applicant stopped drinking.  A finding on Applicant’s behalf cannot be made at this point in time. Guideline G is found against Applicant. 9 Paragraph 2 (Guideline I: Psychological Conditions) The security concern relating to the guideline for Psychological Conditions is set out in AG ¶ 27: Certain emotional, mental, and  personality conditions can  impair  judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness. A  formal  diagnosis of a  disorder is not  required for there to  be  a  concern  under this guideline. A  duly qualified  mental health professional  (e.g.,   clinical  psychologist   or  psychiatrist)  employed   by,  or acceptable to  and  approved  by  the  U.S. Government,  should be  consulted when  evaluating  potentially disqualifying  and  mitigating  information  under this  guideline   and   an   opinion,  including   prognosis,  should   be   sought.   No negative  inference  concerning  the  standards  in this guideline  may  be  raised solely on the basis of mental health counseling. The  guideline  at  AG  ¶  28  contains  five  conditions  that  could  raise  a  security concern and may be disqualifying. Three conditions may be applicable: (a) behavior that casts doubt on  an  individual's judgment,  stability, reliability, or  trustworthiness,  not   covered   under  any  other  guideline   and   that  may indicate   an   emotional,   mental,  or  personality   condition,  including,  but   not limited  to, irresponsible, violent,  self-harm, suicidal, paranoid,  manipulative, impulsive, chronic lying, deceitful, exploitative, or bizarre behaviors; (b)  an   opinion   by   a   duly  qualified   mental   health   professional  that  the individual has a  condition  that may impair  judgment, stability, reliability or trustworthiness;  and (c) voluntary or involuntary inpatient hospitalization. With  regard  to  Guideline  I,  no  adverse  inference  has  been  drawn  because  of Applicant’s obtaining  mental health  treatment or his hospitalizations. Specifically, AG ¶ 28(c) is not applicable to this case. As  stated  above,  there  is  no  direct  evidence  that  Applicant  has  ever  been diagnosed with a bipolar disorder. Accordingly, based on the available record, SOR 2.a is found for Applicant. Turning to the other two  allegations.  The record  shows that  Applicant has been suffering from chronic depression and stress for years. In addition, he was diagnosed by a DoD mental health consultant as having a current diagnosis of Alcohol Use Disorder, Moderate. AG ¶ 28(a) applies to this case. 10 In 2022 a DoD mental health consultant found that Applicant had a condition that may impair his judgment, stability, reliability, and trustworthiness. AG ¶ 28(b) applies. The  Government  has  met  its  burden  under  the  Directive  to  establish  the  above disqualifying conditions. Accordingly, the burden shifts to Applicant to mitigate them. The  guideline  at  AG  ¶  29  contains  five  conditions  that  could  mitigate  security concerns. Four of them have possible application to this case: (a)  the   identified   condition   is  readily  controllable  with   treatment,  and   the individual   has   demonstrated   ongoing   and   consistent   compliance   with   the treatment plan; (b) the  individual  has  voluntarily entered  a  counseling  or  treatment  program for a condition that is amenable to treatment, and the individual is currently receiving   counseling   or  treatment  with   a   favorable  prognosis  by   a   duly qualified mental health professional; (c)  recent opinion  by a  duly qualified  mental health  professional employed by,  or  acceptable   to   and   approved   by,  the   U.S.   Government  that   an individual’s previous condition  is under control or in remission, and  has a low probability of recurrence or exacerbation; and (e) there is no indication of a current problem. SOR 2.b. As stated, Applicant has been suffering with depression and stress for many years. He is undergoing treatment and by all indications the depression is controlled with therapy and medication. There is no indication of a current problem. AG ¶¶ 29(a), (b), and (e) apply. This allegation is found for Applicant. SOR 2.c. My discussion under Guideline G applies to this particular allegation. AG ¶ 29(b) minimally applies because Applicant has recently entered a recovery program. However,  as  stated  above  insufficient  time  has  passed  to  make  a  finding  that  he  has resolved his alcohol issues. AG ¶ 29(c) does not apply because there is not a current mental health finding that the  previous  condition  is  under  control  or  in  remission  and  has  a  low  possibility  of recurrence or exacerbation. I have considered the statements by both psychologists. I do not  find  Doctor  Two’s  analysis  sufficient  to  overcome  that  of  Doctor  One  under  the circumstances of this case. Applicant is highly commended for all he has done to improve his mental health over the  years. However, the  strictures  of the  Guidelines as  written  require  more  from Applicant in terms of consistency of treatment and a current and favorable prognosis that 11 rebuts the current report by the Government’s mental health consultant. Given the current state  of  the  record  I  cannot  find  that  Applicant  has  sufficiently  mitigated  the  security concerns raised by the evidence in this case. Guideline I is found against Applicant. Whole-Person Concept Under  the   whole-person   concept,   the   administrative  judge   must   evaluate   an applicant’s eligibility for a  security clearance  by considering  the  totality of the  applicant’s conduct  and   all   relevant  circumstances.   The   administrative   judge   should   consider  the nine  adjudicative  process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d): the  nature,  extent,  and  seriousness  of to the  conduct;  (2) the (1) circumstances  surrounding include  knowledgeable the  conduct, participation;  (3)  the  frequency  and  recency  of  the  conduct;  (4)  the individual’s  age  and  maturity  at the  time  of the  conduct;  (5) the  extent  to which participation is voluntary; (6) the presence or absence of rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for the conduct; (8) the potential for pressure, coercion, exploitation, or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. Under AG ¶ 2(c), the ultimate determination of whether to grant national security eligibility for a security clearance must be an overall commonsense judgment based upon careful consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept. I  considered  the  potentially  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  in  light  of  all pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding this case. Applicant has made strides in resolving  his  mental  health  issues,  and  related  alcohol  issues.  However,  the  present record  evidence  does  create  substantial  doubt  as  to  Applicant’s  present  suitability  for national security eligibility and a security clearance. Formal Findings Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by ¶ E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Paragraph  1, Guideline  G: AGAINST APPLICANT 12 Subparagraphs  1.a  and  1.b: Against Applicant Paragraph  2, Guideline  I: AGAINST APPLICANT Subparagraphs  2.a  and 2.b: For Applicant Subparagraph  2.c: Against Applicant In light of all of the circumstances presented by the record in this case, it is  not clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  or  continue  Applicant’s  national security eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied. WILFORD H. ROSS Administrative Judge 13 