Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations , with narrative explanations. His admissions and explanations are incorporated into the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  57  years  old.  He  and  his  wife,  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  from Colombia, have been married for 14 years. He has an adult son from a prior marriage. After graduating from college in 1983, he spent 28 years in the U.S. Air Force, retiring in 2011  as  a  lieutenant  colonel.  In  the  Air  Force,  he  attended  postgraduate  school  and extensive  language  training,  and  had  a  clearance.  Since  May  2019,  Applicant  has worked for a private company chartered by a state government to provide assistance to the  state  in  veterans’ and  defense  issues.  He  earns  a  $78,000  annual  salary.   He has been sponsored for a clearance by a prospective employer in the defense industry.  The Guideline B allegations  concern Applicant’s in-laws. They include his wife’s parents  ,  two  brothers-in-law   , and a sister-in-law .   Applicant met his wife in 2003, while he was assigned  in Colombia as a foreign area  officer.  Her  father  was  the  pastor  of  the  church  he  attended  there.  Applicant married his wife  in  2005. She  became a  permanent  U.S.  resident  in  2006,  and a  U.S. citizen  in  2010.    Applicant  and  his  wife  also  lived  in Colombia,  with  her  parents,  from  May  2017  to  May  2019,  as  discussed  further below. 2 Now  that  Applicant  and  his  wife  have  returned  to  the  United  States,  he  has  about monthly contact with her family members.  Applicant disclosed his wife’s family during his prior background investigation, in 2008.  Subsequently, in 2012, his sister-in-law married a Colombian Army officer.  Applicant  and  his  wife  attended  their  wedding  and  his  promotion  ceremony. They had frequent contact when they all lived in the same city in Colombia, but had less contact once the brother-in-law was transferred elsewhere in the country.  Applicant’s  other brother-in-law    is a  businessman  in  Colombia.   The  record  also  reflects  that,  when  he  was  a  foreign  area  officer  assigned  in Colombia, Applicant had assignments in which he would have had regular, professional contact with officers in the Colombian military.  Applicant faced mandatory retirement from the Air Force in late 2011.  He  had  difficulty  finding  civilian  employment  after  he  retired.  He  testified  that  this  was due,  in  part,  to  the  economic  recession  and  the  impact  of  the  2012-2013  budget sequestration,  furlough,  and  government  shutdown,  upon  employment  in  the  defense industry.  Applicant testified that he earned about $100,000 base pay in the Air Force. He receives 70% in retirement income , but 50% of that goes to his former wife, so  he  saw  a  significant  drop  in  income  after  he  retired.  Beginning  in  2012,  he  also earned $650 a month  in disability pay.  Applicant was briefly employed in 2012 at a $95,000 annual salary but was laid off in August 2012 when the contract ended.  He eventually found work at  a  start-up  company,  but  his  monthly  income  varied  and  was  significantly  less  than what he earned as an Air Force officer. Applicant was initially a “1099”  employee with the start-up company. For several years, this led  him to incur a larger tax  burden than he expected.  He took steps to address the issue, and completed a repayment plan  with the IRS in 2017. He has no other tax issues, and there is no allegation relating to past-due taxes in the SOR.  As  a  result  of  Applicant’s  loss  of  income,  he  also  fell  behind  on  monthly  debts, including  his mortgage.  He  used  credit  cards  to  pay  for  necessary  expenses,  such  as food,  gas,  and  medical  expenses.    Facing  foreclosure  in  2015,  he  was  able  to stabilize  his  mortgage  and  bring  it  current  through  a  state-run  mortgage  assistance program.  Applicant  was  laid  off  from  the  start-up  company  in  April  2017.  Despite  his efforts,  he  was  unable  to  find  stable  employment.  He  sold  the  family  home,  and relocated with his wife to Colombia. They moved in with her parents. He did this to lower 3 expenses  and  to  take  advantage  of  a  beneficial  currency  exchange  rate  while  he continued to seek full-time employment in the United States.  Applicant  had  $90,000  in  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  the  family  home.  He  used $60,000 to begin to pay his debts, starting with his IRS debt and his other accounts. He testified that  he had as many as 17 past-due debts, of which 12 are now paid off.  He testified that he settled most of those debts between June and November 2017. He received 1099 forms from the IRS for several accounts, and claimed the forgiven amounts as income.  While in Colombia, Applicant did volunteer work at his wife’s family’s church, but he  did  not  seek  paid  employment.  He  said  he  did  not  want  to  establish  concrete  ties there because he intended to return to the U.S. Since he was not working, he lived off of his military retirement and VA disability income.  Applicant  and  his  wife  lived  in  Colombia  for  two  years,  from  May  2017  to  May 2019.  He  returned  to  the  U.S. occasionally,  such as for medical  appointments  and his background interview. He testified that, without full-time employment, there was little he could  do  to  address  the  remaining  debts,  as  he  wanted  to  save  money  to  finance  his eventual return to the U.S. He pursued credit counseling, and was advised either to file bankruptcy, or to pursue his current course of action.  The  five  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  total  about  $48,000.  They  are  listed  on Applicant’s credit bureau reports from September 2017 and February 2019.   He  testified  that  the  SOR  debts  are  what  remains  from  his  original  debt  load  of  17 consumer debts and his debt to the IRS. SOR  ¶  1.a    is  a  charged-off  credit  card  account.  Shortly  before  the hearing,  Applicant  arranged  to  settle  the  debt  for  $8,500,  paying  $250  a  month  from September  2019  until  June  2022.  He  had  made  two  prior  payments  earlier  in  2019, lowering the balance to $19,585.  SOR ¶¶ 1.b  and 1.c  are charged-off credit card accounts, and SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a  credit  card  debt  in  collection.  Applicant  said  he  used  the accounts  to  pay  living  expenses  like  food,  gas,  and  medical  bills.  He  contacted  the creditors in 2017 but could not work out repayment plans that left him enough money in savings to relocate back to the U.S. He has not contacted them to arrange a payment plan since beginning his new job, but intends to do so.  SOR  ¶  1.e    is  a  credit-card  account  in  collection.  Applicant  intends  to resolve this debt next, given its relatively small size.  Applicant’s  accounts  and  his wife’s accounts  are  otherwise  current,  and  he  has incurred no new debts.  Applicant plans on addressing the SOR debts  one  at  a  time.    He  expects  to  be  able  to  do  so  more 4 aggressively  once  he  identifies  his  monthly  expenses  and  income  stream  after  his recent transition back to employment in the U.S.  Applicant  testified  that  he  always  intended  to  return  from  Colombia  once  he found a job in the U.S. He never intended to live there as long as he did, and does not intend to return to live there permanently in the future.  The  chief  executive  officer  of  Applicant’s  sponsor  for  a  clearance  provided  a recommendation  letter.  He  is  a  retired  Navy  captain  who  had  a  high-level  intelligence position  at  U.S.  Central  Command.  The  reference  has  known  Applicant  since  2004, when  Applicant  served  under  him  in  highly  classified  roles.  Applicant  has  his  utmost trust and confidence, and highest recommendation for a clearance.  Another  reference  has  known  Applicant  since  2013,  when  they  began  working together.  He  asserted  that  Applicant  has  demonstrated  unwavering  commitment  and loyalty to the nation, and still upholds the oath Applicant took years ago upon entering the Air Force.  Colombia With its Administrative Notice filing , the Government included information from the U.S. Department of State as of August 2018 about the United States’ relations with Colombia. The information in that document is substantially similar to more recent information, available on the State Department website. I take administrative notice of the updated facts, consistent with my obligation to make  assessments  based  on  timely  information  in  cases  involving  foreign  influence. ISCR  Case  No.  05-11292  at  4     The information is detailed as follows: With  the  support  of  the  United  States,  Colombia  has  transformed  itself over the past 20 years from a fragile state to a vibrant democracy with a growing, market-oriented economy. In  2016,  the  Government  of  Colombia  signed  a  peace  accord  with  the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia , ending  more than half a century of conflict. The  United  States  is  committed  to  cooperating  with  Colombia  to undermine  the  transnational  criminal  organizations  whose  activities, especially narcotrafficking, are devastating to the citizens of Colombia and of the United States. 5 In addition,  the State Department advises  on  its  website  that  U.S.  citizens  considering travel to Colombia should exercise increased caution, given the risk of crime, terrorism, and kidnapping. 