Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f.,  1.g.,  and  2a.~2.d.  She denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a.~1.e., and 1.h.~1.j. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  registered  nurse.   She  is married  to  a member of  the  U.S.  Navy,  and  has one  child.    As  they  are  deployed  in  Japan, Applicant has had difficulties qualifying to work in her profession, which resulted in the alleged financial difficulties. Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  denies  that  she  had  her husband  failed  to  file  their  2013  Federal income  tax  returns  in  a  timely  fashion.  They  incorrectly  thought  that,  as  they  were deployed  overseas,  they  “had  some  kind  of  .  .  .  extension.”   They in fact filed this return in September of 2014, five months late, as evidenced  by  this  filing.    I  find  that  Applicant  made  a good-faith effort to comply with Federal tax law; and as such, this allegation is found for Applicant. 1.b.    Applicant  denies  that  she  had  a  past-due  debt  to  a  cable  provider  in  the amount of about $322. Applicant avers that she was unaware of this alleged debt until she was interviewed by a special agent.  Her credibility is attested to by those who know Applicant in the work place.  This debt  was  “settled  in  full”  in  July  of  2019,  as  evidenced  by  a  letter  from  this  creditor.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c.  Applicant denies that she had a past-due debt to a department store in the amount of about $299. Applicant avers that she lost her wallet and was unaware of this alleged  debt  until  she  was  interviewed  by  a  special  agent.    This  debt  “has  a  zero  balance,”  as  evidenced  by  a  letter  from  this creditor.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.d.  and  1.e.  Applicant  denies  that  she  is  delinquent  on  her  student  loans  that total about $16,922. Applicant is current with her student loans, with a current balance of about $15,055.  These allegations are found for Applicant. 2 1.f.  Applicant  denies  that  she  had  a  past-due  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of about $8,228.  This debt was settled and has a “$0.00” balance, as evidenced by documentation from this creditor.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.g.  Applicant  denies  that  she  is  delinquent  on  another  student  loan  for  about $11,817.  This  loan  is  settled  in  full  as  evidenced  by  documentation  regarding  this student loan.   This  allegation  is  found  for Applicant. 1.h.  and  1.i.  Applicant  denies  that  she  had  past-due  credit  card  debts  totaling about  $1,442.    This  debt  was  settled  and  has  a  “$0.00” balance, as evidenced by documentation from this creditor.  These allegations are found for Applicant. 1.j.  Applicant  denies  that  she  had  a  past-due  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of about $715.  This debt “has a zero balance,” as evidenced by a letter from this creditor.  This allegation is found for Applicant. Guideline B - Foreign Influence 2.a. Applicant’s father-in-law is a dual national of the Philippines and the United States,  and  resides  in  the  Philippines.  His  is  retired  and  has  no  connection  with  the Philippine  government.    This  allegation  is  found  for Applicant. 2.b.  Applicant’s  two  older brothers are  citizens  and  residents  of the  Philippines. One “drives a jeep,” and the other “owns a Gown Shop.”  She has little contact with these brothers, once in 12 year.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 2.c. Applicant’s aunt is a citizen and resident of the   Philippines. She also owns “a  Gown  Shop.”    Applicant’s contact with her aunt is infrequent, at best. This allegation is found for Applicant. 2.d.  Applicant  and  her  husband  own  “undeveloped”  property  in  the  Philippines worth  about  $60,000.  They  are  unsure  what  they  will  do  with  this  property,  which  has appreciated  little  since  its  purchase.    As  their  son  may  return  to  the  United  States  to further his education once he reaches college age, they may sell this property and also return to the United States.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 3 Notice I take administrative notice of the following facts: The Philippines is a multi-party, constitutional  republic  with  a  bicameral  legislature.  There  is  considerable  risk  of terrorism  in  Manila.  There  are  also  human  rights  issues  including  unlawful or  arbitrary killings  by  security  forces,  vigilantes,  and  other  groups  allegedly  connected  to  the government. 