In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he denied a $603 medical collection account and  a  $728  collection  account.  He  admitted  the  two  charged-off  accounts  for  two repossessed  vehicles  and  the  other  charged-off,  delinquent,  and  collection  accounts listed  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  testimony,  pleadings,  and  exhibits,  I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 29-year-old manufacturing supervisor who has worked for a defense contractor since July 2018 and seeks to obtain a security clearance.  From July 2008 through July 2014, he served honorably in the U.S. Air Force before separating as an airman first  class    .    The  U.S.  Department  of  Veteran’s  Affairs   rates  Applicant’s  disability  at  60  per-cent  due  to  back  issues,  knee  problems, migraines,  sleep  apnea,  irritable  bowel  syndrome,  and  hearing  problems.    His disability pay is approximately $1,400 monthly.  When hired at his current job, his starting salary was approximately $57,000.  His current  base annual income is approximately $77,000 and, with overtime, is approximately $108,000.  Prior to leaving the Air Force, Applicant had received an offer for a position as an airfield  operations  manager.  However,  after  leaving  the  Air  Force,  he  discovered  the position had been filled by another.  Not having the anticipated job, he struggled financially to adapt to civilian life. He decided to go to college. While going to school,  he  had  a  job  at  a  supermarket  and  then  at  a  guitar  store.  He  later  obtained  a position as a motorcycle sales representative. During his first four years after leaving the Air Force, his credit suffered as did his finances generally. In November 2008, Applicant married. He and his spouse have four children ages 2, 3, 6, and 10.  He is current on his vehicle payments and on his $1,700 monthly home mortgage payments, which he had purchased in August 2019 for $203,000.  He has two credit cards that are in good standing. He no longer lives paycheck to paycheck and contributes eight percent of his salary to his company’s 401 retirement plan.  He is current on his $292 monthly payments for his Department of Education student loan debt.  The student loan debt is not listed 2 in the SOR as a debt of concern. He asserted that since gaining his current employment, he has paid a number of debts not listed in the SOR.  In  August  2015,  while  Applicant  was  working  for  a  motorcycle  dealership,  he purchased a motorcycle. Initially, he was making a good income selling motorcycles, but this did not last. The owner of the dealership fired him when the owner found out Applicant was seeking different employment.  Unable to make his monthly payments, the motorcycle was repossessed and resold, which left a $7,962 delinquency .   In  September  2019,  the  creditor  offered  to  settle  the  debt  for  $3,184  with  monthly payments of $61.25 starting in September 2019.  Applicant accepted the offer. Between September 2019 and January 2020, he made 15 payments totaling $918.  Applicant asserts the last payment of the settlement agreement is to be made in August 2020.  In 2013, while Applicant was still on active duty, he purchased an automobile.  In March 2016, he was unable to make his monthly payment, and the vehicle was repossessed resulting in a $12,958 balance owed .  Between the repossession and September 2018, when he provided a subject interview, he contacted the creditor a few times.  In January 2020, the automobile finance company agreed to accept $9,070 to settle the debt.  The finance company also agreed to notify the credit bureaus to update the account to “Charged off – settlement in full” once the account is paid.  In  2014,  Applicant,  then  age  24,  was  working  part  time  at  a  guitar  store  while attending college full time when he opened a line of credit and purchased a guitar.  He admits not handling his finances properly, and the account became delinquent. The debt was charged off in the amount of $997 . At the time of the hearing, Applicant was attempting to determine who currently holds the debt.  When he went to the guitar store’s website seeking information on the debt, no record was disclosed.  A January 2020 letter from the creditor states the account has a zero balance.  When Applicant made his SOR Response, he denied owing a $728 account that was  placed  for  collection    However,  during  his  September  2018  enhanced subject interview, he did not dispute the debt.  The debt is reportedly a cell phone bill with Verizon. A collection agency is attempting to collect the delinquent amount. In the spring of 2019, he contacted the collection agency’s website in an attempt to verify the debt and found no record of the account.  His February 2018 credit report indicates the “account was disputed.”  The account no longer appears on any of his three January 18, 2020 credit reports.  The credit reports list numerous other accounts as being paid as agreed.  In 2015, Applicant had his appendix removed.  He incurred a $603 medical debt  for  anesthesia  services  .  This  debt  is  listed  only  as  delinquent  and  not listed as charged off or in collection. In April 2019, Applicant made a $100 payment to address an emergency physicians’ debt.  In May 2019, this debt was settled and paid leaving a zero balance.  His surgery also resulted in a 3 $1,692 medical account  that was placed for collection. Applicant contacted the collection  company  to  discuss  settlement  of  the  debt.    The  company  was  not willing to negotiate a lower settlement and payment arrangements were discussed.  He had previously believed this debt had been paid.  His January 16, 2020 credit report lists zero balances on two anesthesia accounts and a balance of $602 on another anesthesia account.  Applicant owed a $480 cell phone debt  that was placed for collection. In June 2017, the debt was incurred when he changed mobile phone carriers. He paid the debt in full after the collection agency was unwilling to reduce the amount of the debt.  At the hearing, he asserted he would provide documentation showing payment had been made. He owed a $219 power and light debt  that was placed for collection. He entered into a “pay to delete agreement.”  However, each time he contacted  the  company,  he  was  unable  to  reach  anyone  to  resolve  the  debt.   His February 2018 credit report indicates the “account was disputed.”  The debt does not appear on his most recent credit reports.  In July 2018, when Applicant started his current job, he wanted to get himself on a solid financial footing.  He applied his funds to making his car payments, paying his  rent,  and  providing  for  food.    He  currently maintains  his  budget  through  an Excel  spreadsheet.    He  is  current  on  his  $533  monthly  car  payments  and  his $1,700 mortgage payments.  He has $22,000 in his 401 retirement plan.  Applicant is not receiving calls or letters from creditors demanding payment.  He is current on his student loans, which total approximately $20,000.  He intends to pay all of his debts.  He has not had any financial counseling.  He asserts he has grown and matured since leaving the Air Force.  He no longer thinks he has the world figured out. Character Statement Applicant’s second-line supervisor, a multi-functional manufacturing manager, who has  mentored  Applicant  for  more  than  a  year  and  a  half,  states  Applicant  is  a  hard- working, dedicated member of the team. He said Applicant’s morals and ethics are above reproach. Applicant has a willingness to learn from his past mistakes, to change for the better,  and  see  things  through.    He  has  discussed  with  Applicant  the Applicant’s finances, including how to address his debts, and states Applicant is actively working to pay down his debts.  