Applicant admitted to all the allegations of the SOR. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since 2016.  He is single, but has three children: two who are adults and a seventeen-year-old, who lives with Applicant due to the recent death of the child’s mother.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations Applicant’s past-due indebtedness goes back at least until 2015; but due to prior periods of unemployment and underemployment, he has only recently began to address his admitted past-due indebtedness.  He now has a positive monthly cash flow of about $625, and is well respected in his community and in the workplace, as evidenced by six letters of support.  1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was  indebted  to  Creditor  A,  as  the  result  of  an automobile  repossession,  in  the  amount  of  about $15,596. This debt  has  been  settled for  $6,300,  and  Applicant  has  made  five  of  “18”  payments,  as  evidenced  by documentation from  Creditor A.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was  indebted  to  State  B,  as  the  result  of  the overpayment of unemployment benefits, in the amount of about $1,731. This debt has been paid, as evidenced by documentation from State B.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c. Applicant admits that he is indebted to Creditor C for a past-due credit union debt,  in  the  amount  of  about  $4,467.  Applicant  is  making  monthly  payments  of  $100 towards this debt, as evidenced by documentation from Creditor C.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits that he was indebted to Creditor D for a past-due cable TV debt,  in  the  amount  of  about  $239.  This  debt  has  been  paid,  as  evidenced  by documentation  from  Creditor  D.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 2 