Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, through 1.e. He denied SOR allegations  ¶¶  1.f.  and  1.g.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since August of 2018.  Applicant was born in the United States; but as a child,  he was  taken to  Taiwan by  his  Taiwanese parents.  He returned to the United States in 2016, has received a Master’s Degree from an American university, and is pursuing a Ph.D. from that same university.      He  is  married,  and  has  one American born child, age 2. GX 1 at page 38.) Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a. Applicant’s parents are citizens and residents of Taiwan.  However, “they have been separated for more than 30 year.”  His mother is a retired nurse, having been retired “for more than 20 years.”  She never worked for the Taiwanese government, and he contacts her only about “four times a year.”  Applicant’s  father  is  “a  dentist.”    Apart  from  his mandatory  military  service,  Applicant’s  father  had  no  connection  with  the  Taiwanese government.    He  contacts  his  father  about “once every year.”  1.b.  Applicant’s two sisters are citizens and residents of Taiwan.  His oldest sister has mental health issues, and his youngest sister is a veterinarian.  Applicant has little contact with 2 his oldest sister, and only about four times a year with his youngest sister.   Neither  sister  has  any  connection  with  the  Taiwanese government. 1.c.  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of Taiwan.  His mother-in-law is “a cook,” and his father-in-law is “retired.”   Through  his  wife,  Applicant  has contact with these in-laws about  four times a year.  1.d.   Applicant’s sister-in-law is citizens and resident of Taiwan.  She is a “full-time mother,” and their contact is limited to about twice a year.  1.e. Applicant maintains contact, about once or twice a year, with friends who are citizens of Taiwan, but for the most part reside in the United States.   None are affiliated with the Taiwanese government, and he met them through his university schooling in the United States.  1.f.  Applicant  denies  that  he  owns  any  real  property  in  Taiwan.  He  transferred ownership to his wife, who is in the process of selling said property.  Furthermore, they are in  the  process  of  purchasing  real  property  in  the  United  States,  as  evidenced  by documentation.  1.g. Applicant denies that he has two bank accounts in Taiwan, valued at about $50,000.  He  has  transferred  said  funds  to  the  United  States,  as  evidenced  by documentation to that end.  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  as  to  certain  facts  regarding  Taiwan:  The  United States  recognizes  Taiwan  as  part  of  the  Peoples  Republic  of  China.  It  perpetrates economic espionage. 