Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.e,  all  with  explanations  and  documents.  I incorporate  his  admissions  and  explanations  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following findings of fact. Applicant is 33 years old. He and his wife married in 2016. They have two young children.    Applicant  graduated  from  college  in  2009,  in  his  home state,  State  1.  He  then  studied  at  a  state  university  in  State  2  from  2009  to  2015, earning his master’s degree in 2011 and his doctorate in 2015, in electrical engineering. During and after his graduate education, he was also employed as a university research assistant, from 2009 to December 2017.  In  January  2018,  Applicant  left  academia and moved  to  State  3  for  a job as  an engineer with a large defense contractor. He has been there ever since. . He has never held a clearance before.  He has an annual salary of about $90,000. His wife does not work outside the home.  2 The SOR debts are all student loans from Applicant’s undergraduate years.  Applicant received a fellowship for his first year of graduate school because he was from out of state. During graduate school, he received annual stipends of about $20,000 a year. He also received some income as a teaching assistant and a research assistant.  He did not have funds available from his family or  other  sources.  He  “tried  to  live  as  cheaply  as  possible,”  and  he  lived  in  graduate school housing.  Once he earned his Ph.D., he earned about $80,000 as a university faculty member.  Applicant’s graduate education was largely funded through his fellowship, and his work as a teaching assistant and research assistant.  He said he only took out one loan during graduate school, early in his first semester, for about $24,000.  Applicant’s student loans became delinquent during his time in graduate school. He acknowledged that he did not communicate with the lenders to address them during that time, nor did he attempt to defer the loans. He received calls from collectors during graduate  school  but  did  not  act,  because  he  could  not  afford  to  pay  them.   By the time he earned his Ph.D., he owed several hundred thousand dollars in student loans.  He said that he had “so much debt that I couldn’t possibly pay it back,” and the accounts became delinquent.  In  early  2017,  after  his  father  passed  away,  Applicant  received  about  $100,000 from  his  father’s  life  insurance  policy,  and  about  $20,000  from  the  sale  of  his  late father’s  house.    Applicant  first  sought  to  confirm  who owned  his  various  loans,  before  attempting  to  settle  them.  He  did  not  want  to  pay money to someone without confirming that they owed his loan. Dealing with his father’s estate also took significant time.  When he prepared his SCA, in January 2018, Applicant pulled his credit reports and disclosed several of the debts.  He discussed them in his background information  and documentation about his debts in a July 2019 interrogatory response to DOHA.    He  also  provided  additional interviews. The  five  student  loan  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  total  about  $128,811.  They  are established  by  Applicant’s  admissions  and  by  credit  reports  from  February  2018  and March 2019.  SOR ¶ 1.a : Applicant had three student loan accounts with creditor N.  Applicant settled two of the loans with creditor N in June 2019.   The  third  student  loan  with  creditor  N  is  the  debt  at  SOR  ¶  1.a.  On Applicant’s  February  2018  credit  report,  the  amount  alleged  was  charged  off  in December  2016.    The  debt  is  not  listed  on  Applicant’s  March  2019  credit report  3 In  researching  his  responsibility  for  his  debts  with  N,  Applicant  ultimately communicated  with  an  outside  legal  counsel  representing  N  in  a  bankruptcy  case involving another debtor . . N’s records initially indicated that Applicant’s loan was somehow related to that bankruptcy proceeding, and that, as a result, N had stopped collection on the Applicant’s account.   However,  N  later  determined  that  Applicant’s  loan  is  not  related  to  the bankruptcy litigation.  , Ultimately, Applicant acknowledged that SOR ¶ 1.a is his responsibility. He also declared  that  he  intends  to  settle  and  resolve  the  debt  as  he  had  with  his  other  two debts with N.  It is unresolved. SOR  ¶  1.b    is  a  student  loan  account  from  a  bank.  According  to Applicant’s February 2018 credit report, the amount alleged was charged off in October 2015.  Applicant’s March 2019 credit report states the account was charged off, with $24,735 past due.  Applicant agreed to settle the account for $9,894 with payments over the next two years.  He provided  documentation  of  several  recent  monthly  payments  of  $413.   The account is being resolved. In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  expressed  his  view  that  the  promissory notes  for  both  loans    had  been  forged.  He  provided  copies  of promissory notes with what he argued were signatures different from his own.  He believed the debt at SOR ¶ 1.a  was  a  loan  taken  out  by  his  half-brother.    He  acknowledged, however,  that  forgery  would  be  difficult  to  prove  through  litigation:  “I  mean,  there’s  no clear documentation.”  Moreover, Applicant admitted both SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b in his Answer to the SOR and during his testimony, and has taken documented steps to resolve each account. In doing so, he has accepted responsibility for the accounts. His claims of forgery are not established. SOR  ¶  1.c    is  a  student  loan  account  with  a  bank.  Applicant  was granted the loan in 2007, for $9,756. In a January 2019 letter to Applicant in response to his  inquiry,  the  creditor  noted  that  the  loan  was  charged  off  in  2016  in  the  amount alleged, and that it was not able to collect on the debt because the statute of limitations had expired. Accordingly, the creditor cancelled the  debt and issued Applicant a Form 1099-C  in  2016.    The  IRS accounted  for  the  cancelled  amount  and  adjusted  Applicant’s  2016  taxable  income accordingly.  As a result, Applicant was later assessed an additional $3,557 in federal income tax for 2016, which is resolved.  The account is listed on Applicant’s February 2018 credit report as having been charged off, but no balance is noted.  He believes the account is resolved and closed.  4 SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a  student  loan  account  with  a  bank.  Applicant  entered into  the  loan in  June 2008,  for  $23,155. The loan was  charged off for $29,095 in  May 2014.  In  December  2017,  the  creditor  cancelled  the  principal  balance  of  $21,530,  and issued a Form 1099-C to Applicant.   The  IRS  accounted  for  the  cancelled  amount  and  adjusted  his  2017 taxable income accordingly.  As a result, Applicant was later assessed an additional $7,946 in federal income tax for 2017, which is now resolved.   The  account  is  listed  on  Applicant’s  February  2018  credit  report  as  having  been charged off, but no balance is noted.  SOR ¶ 1.e  is a student loan account with the same bank as SOR ¶ 1.d. Applicant entered into the loan in August 2006. The loan was charged off for $14,197 in August 2012. In December 2013, the creditor cancelled the principal balance of $13,076 and issued a Form 1099-C to Applicant.   The  account  is  listed  on  Applicant’s  February  2018  credit  report  as  having been charged off, but no balance is noted.  Applicant owes two other private loans totaling about $62,000. They include one from a creditor who filed suit against Applicant in State 1 court. When Applicant became aware of the suit, he retained counsel. In January 2020, the suit was dismissed without prejudice.    He  also  acknowledged  that  he  owes  about  $33,000  in federal student loans.  Applicant  has  settled  several  other  private  student  loan  debts  that  were  not alleged  in  the  SOR.    He  also  documented  the status of his federal loans. A $2,700 federal student loan he incurred during college has been  paid  in  full,  as  of  July  2019.    He  has  also  been  making  $537 monthly payments on another federal student loan, every month since December 2015, a  few  months  after  he  finished  his  schooling.  He  made  $26,326  in  payments  on  that loan in the years since then.  Applicant  has  been  better  able  to  address  his  debts  since  he  earned  his  Ph.D. and  fully  entered  the  workforce.    His  intention  is  to  continue  to pay on his loans.  He now monitors his credit score more closely.  He and  his  wife  rent  their  home.  Their  son  has  developmental  issues  that  have  led  to unexpected expenses, and Applicant expects them to continue.  Applicant  provided  a  recent  bank  statement  reflecting  a  combined  balance  of about $106,000 in his checking and savings accounts. He intends to use these funds to pay down his student loan debts.  Two  university  professors  and  two  current  co-workers  provided  letters  of recommendation  for  Applicant.  Professor  A  worked  closely  with  Applicant  for  about seven years. He attested to Applicant’s “dedication towards accomplishing a task, either 5 professionally or personally, giving specific examples in difficult conditions. He regards Applicant  as  exceptionally  efficient,  responsible,  and  aware  of  his  co-workers’  needs and capabilities.  Professor B hired Applicant as a research assistant early in Applicant’s graduate school years, and served as an advisor for Applicant’s doctoral thesis. Applicant is the only  student  Professor  B  has  hired  as  research  faculty.  He  is  reliable,  direct,  and honest. He is dedicated, hard-working, and technically proficient. Professor B had great confidence in Applicant’s ability to succeed, whether individually or when leading others on a project. Applicant was “the single most important contributor to my research group in the last ten years.” He is also a great friend, caring father, and an attentive husband.  Co-worker  A  also  attested  to  Applicant’s  hard  work,  dedication,  and  technical abilities.  Applicant  follows  regulations  and  procedure  and  is  of  good  character.  Co- worker A trusts Applicant to do what is best for the company and the country.  Co-worker B has worked with Applicant daily since he joined the company about two years ago. They are good friends at work. Applicant works hard and has earned the trust of everyone he works with. He is moral and honest. He is a man of integrity.  