Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.~1.d.  He  denied  SOR allegation  ¶  1.e.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  “for  over  30  years,”  and  has  held  a  security clearance  for  those  30-plus  years.    He  is recently divorced, and has three adult  children.   Applicant  attributes  his  financial  difficulties  to  his  divorce,  when  his  former  spouse “walked  out”  of  their  marriage,  leaving  all  of  the  alleged  past-due  debts,  save  the  last one, to Applicant.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits a former  past-due  credit-card  debt, incurred by his former spouse without his knowledge, in the amount of about $30,000.   Through  the  auspices  of  a  legal  mediator;  he  paid  this  debt  in August  of  2020,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  this  legal  mediator   1.b.  Applicant  admits  a  former,  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  B  in  the  amount  of about $3,492.  Through the auspices of the same legal mediator noted above; he paid this debt in January of 2020, as evidenced by documentation from this legal mediator  1.c.  Applicant  admits  a  former,  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  C  in  the  amount  of about  $4,648.   Through  the  auspices  of  the same legal mediator noted above; he paid this debt in November of 2018, as evidenced by documentation from this legal mediator  1.d.  Applicant  admits  a  past-due  debt  on  a  second  mortgage  in  the  amount  of about $58,000.  Through the auspices of the same legal mediator noted above, Applicant is making monthly payments of $1,824 towards this debt, which will be paid off on March 1, 2021.  This is evidenced by documentation from this legal mediator  1.e.  Applicant  denies  his  ex-spouse’s  medical  debt  in  the  amount  of  about $1,047.  This debt also does not appear on Applicant’s most recent October 2020 credit report.  I find that Applicant is not responsible for this debt. 2 