Applicant, age 35, is married and has two children. She graduated from high school in  2003  and  attended  college  classes  for  several  years,  the  most  recent  in  2016  until 2017,  but  she  has  not  obtained  her  undergraduate  degree.  She  has  received  various computer certifications.  Applicant completed her security clearance application on April 24, 2018. She has held a security clearance since 2005. She has been employed with her current employer since October 2015 as a help desk technician.  The SOR alleges that Applicant has delinquent debt in the amount of $39,000, of which $10,000 is student loan debt. The other delinquent debts are charged-off accounts or collection accounts that resulted from her unemployment. Applicant admitted the SOR allegations and provided explanations. SOR allegation 1.a is a duplicate of 1.f and was withdrawn at the hearing by the Government. Applicant acknowledged her delinquent debts, but stated that she was unemployed for five months from 2014 to 2015. She disclosed her delinquent debts on her security clearance application. Her husband works but his job depends on the seasons and there are times when he does not earn very much.  When  Applicant  lost  her  employment,  she  cashed  out  her  retirement  account )  and  received  unemployment.  She  hoped this  would  keep  her “afloat.”  When she obtained a job in 2015, her salary was lower than her previous income. Her current employment provides her with about the same income as when she was previously employed. She has taken positive steps to resolve her debts and to live frugally and stopped certain services such as television and landline phone.  that As  to  SOR  allegation  1.b,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $10,819, Applicant’s husband used the life insurance from his father’s death and paid the entire amount.  The  default  was  the  direct  result  of  unemployment  at  the  end  of  2014.  As Applicant prioritized  her delinquent  debts,  this was  the  last  account  that  was  resolved, relating to a consolidation loan.  SOR  allegation 1.c, a charged-off account  in  the amount  of  $9,809,  was  a  loan from  2010  for  a  jeep  refinancing.  This  account  became  delinquent  in  2014  after Applicant’s unemployment. This account is now paid. The insurance policy money from Applicant’s father-in-law was also used to pay this debt.  SOR  allegations  1.d  and  1.e,  represent  student  loans  from  2016  that  were  not reimbursed  by  Applicant’s  employer  because  she  did  not  successfully  complete  the courses.  Her  employer  did  reimburse  costs  for  college  classes  when  she  received  a passing grade.  Applicant received a notice of payment in 2017 and made two payments of about $100.  She admits that she put this account aside and arranged 2 a payment plan in 2019. She had made three monthly payments thus far of $352, and will be making ten more payment to rehabilitate the loan.  As to SOR allegation 1.f, a collection account in the amount of $2,474, Applicant used a credit card to buy new tires for her car. She had been paying on the account, but she stopped when she was laid off. The tires were purchased in 2013. This account has been resolved. Applicant paid the account in October 2019.  As to SOR allegation 1.g, a collection account in the amount of $502, Applicant had been making payments of $15 twice a month since 2015. She used some of the life insurance money referred to above to settle the account.  As  to  SOR  allegation  1.h,  a  collection  account  for  dental  services  for  her  son  in the amount of $1,882, Applicant has been making payments since 2015, and the current balance is $375.  SOR  allegation  1.i,  a collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $4,136, Applicant  has been  making  automatic  payments  of  $17.29  twice  a  month  since  late  2015  and  the balance  is  $2,541.  She  will  continue  to  make  these  payments  through  automatic withdrawal until paid in full.  Applicant’s mortgage is current. Her annual salary is about $67,000. She obtained information from a financial counseling website and has a budget.  She has a Roth IRA account. Her husband earns $25 an hour. He pays the mortgage and maintains a separate bank account. They both share responsibility for the children. Applicant does not believe she will continue her on line college classes at this point so that she does not incur any more student loans if she does not obtain a passing grade and her employer does  not  pay  for  the  course.    She  provided  a  copy  of  her current  credit  report showing that she is current on all accounts.  Applicant  submitted  seven  character  references  and  her  latest  performance evaluation.  Her lead supervisor praises Applicant for her highly professional attitude and a  trustworthiness.  She  is  described  as  one  of  the  hardest-working  and  most-valued employee on a team of 30.  Her latest performance evaluation reflects that she had a productive and successful year and met all expectations.  