In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations except SOR ¶ 1.f, which he denied. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact. The facts alleged in the SOR are identified by parenthetical citations to the SOR in italics and bold print. Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  information  technology    specialist  employed  by  a defense contractor. He is a site lead and supervises an eight-member team.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  November  2012  to  March  2019  and received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  was  discharged  early  after  a  medical  evaluation board  determined  that  he  was  suffering  from  fibromyalgia,  a  musculoskeletal  disorder often accompanied by  fatigue,  sleep issues,  and mood issues.1    He  held a security  clearance  while  on  active  duty  and  retained  it  as  the  employee  of  a  defense contractor.  He married in May 2011 and has two children and two stepchildren.  He has taken college classes online but does not have a degree.  In  February  2014,  while  deployed  overseas,  Applicant  complained  of  daily headaches and chest pain. He was sent back to the United States before completing his tour of duty.  In the United States, he underwent a CT scan of his head and brain to determine the cause of more than two months of daily headaches and dizziness. The scan reflected “no appreciable parenchymal mass, hemorrhage, or edema” and no acute intracranial abnormality. The medical report recommended that an MRI be conducted if clinical  concerns  persisted.    He  received  no  treatment,  except  for  injections  of Botox to relieve his headaches.  1 The fibromyalgia definition is at www.mayoclinic.org/diseases/conditions/fibromyalgia/symptoms-causes. 2 In  early  2017,  Applicant  was  again  deployed  overseas  and  separated  from  his family.  In April and  May  2017,  Applicant  went  to  his  unit’s  behavioral health clinic and reported that he was irritable and tired and experiencing stress to due poor leadership in his  unit.  He  was  diagnosed  with  an  adjustment  disorder  with  anxiety  and  depressed mood.  At the hearing, he testified that he experienced recurrent and severe headaches. He was in a high-pressure job, working 12-hour shifts, and unable to sleep. He  testified  that  he  sought  medical  help,  but  his  supervisors  made  him  cancel  his appointments. He told his superiors that he had considered suicide.   He threatened his detachment sergeant and platoon sergeant, because he believed they were the cause of his continuous pain.   An incident report reflects that he threatened to “kill/injure” them, but he testified at the hearing that he wanted to hurt  them  but  not  kill  them.    He  was  admitted  as  an  inpatient  in  a psychiatric  unit  during  June  and  July  2017  and  was  prescribed  sleep  medication  and psychotropic medications.  He was moved to a less stressful job, where he quickly established himself as a solid worker and a natural leader. His commander, an Army  captain,  described  him  as  one  of  the  top  performers  in  his  command  and recommended him for promotion.  In  August  2017,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder  in partial remission.  He received “maintenance therapy” until December 2017. In  March  2018,  Applicant  was  evaluated  at  a  behavioral  health  clinic  and diagnosed with an adjustment disorder. A psychiatrist reported that he had “limited coping skills,  persistent  depression,  and  work-related  stressors  for  which  he  has  few  coping skills.”    In  January  2019,  a  psychiatrist  diagnosed  him  with  persistent depressive disorder with work-related stress, few coping skills and adjustment disorder with disturbance of emotions and conduct.   In  February  2019,  after  Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States,  a  psychologist evaluated him while was on terminal leave pending the results of a medical evaluation board. In her report, the psychologist expressed concern about the accuracy of the tests that she administered because she believed Applicant presented himself in an extremely positive  light  by  denying  many  minor  faults  and  shortcomings  that  most  people acknowledge. However, she also noted that during the psychological interview that “he was forthcoming and did not appear to be attempting to portray himself in a positive light.”  The  psychologist  noted  Applicant’s  history  of  suicidal  ideation  and  threatening behavior. She found significant thought dysfunction, based on persecutory ideation such as  believing  that  others  seek  to  harm  him.  She  noted  that  Applicant  believed  that  his noncommissioned  officer    followed  him  to  make  sure  that  he  kept  his  medical appointments, that his NCO punished him without cause, that his NCO stole his work and presented it as his own, and that his NCO “talked trash” about him. She also noted that Applicant made his own appointment in violation of normal protocol, after being told that the evaluation could only be scheduled through his security officer, and she concluded 3 that his violation of the scheduling protocol evidenced an unwillingness to follow rules and a disregard for instructions. The  psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  dysthymic  disorder,  a  form  of depression, but ruled out a personality disorder.  She concluded that, based on his history of high risk, irresponsible, aggressive, antisocial, or emotionally unstable behavior, there may be a material deficit in his ability or willingness to properly safeguard classified information or perform sensitive duties, especially if he was not happy with his assignment  or  believed  he  knew  a  better  way  to  perform  his  duties.    She concluded impact  his  reliability  or trustworthiness  and  could  cause  unwillingness  or  resistance  to  follow  rules  and regulations.  that  Applicant’s  deficits  or  problems  could The  psychologist  apparently  based  her  conclusion  about  Applicant’s  inability  or unwillingness to follow rule and regulations solely on his failure to follow the protocol for scheduling  a  mental  health  evaluation.  The  record  reflects  no  disciplinary  or administrative  measures  imposed  on  him  during  his  military  service  for  failure  to  obey orders, follow instructions, or obey regulations. The psychologist found that Applicant’s psychological functioning was stable and that he did not report any significant symptoms of depression or anxiety at the time of her evaluation. She concluded that his social functioning and occupational functioning were good. However, she also concluded that her interview of Applicant revealed deficits or problems  with  judgment  and  revealed  traits  that  could  affect  his  reliability  or trustworthiness.  She  concluded  from  the  psychological  interview  that  his  current psychiatric condition was stable, but that he likely has a chronic mood disorder that affects his ability to cope with stressful situations. Based  on  Applicant’s  record  of  seeking  assistance  from  behavioral  health professionals, the psychologist concluded that he likely will seek help again if he feels the need. She noted that Applicant reported that he is compliant with his medications, but she expressed concern that noncompliance might cause him to decompensate to his previous level  of  self-injury  or  threatening  behaviors.  Her  prognosis  was  “guarded”  because  of Applicant’s  “inability  to  adequately  cope  with  his  personal  and  professional  stressors, even though he seeks help when he feels that he needs it.”  Applicant returned to the United States in early 2018. An Army staff sergeant who was Applicant’s supervisor from February 2018 to March 2019 observed that he provided “immaculate communications support” to his unit and that he demonstrated exceptional leadership and decision-making and earned the trust of the command’s senior leadership as well as his co-workers and immediate supervisor.  After Applicant’s discharge in March 2019, he sought medical treatment from the Department of Veterans Affairs . He testified that his headaches returned but that the VA medical personnel kept giving him intravenous injections and sending him home.  4 At  some  time  in  2019,  VA  medical  personnel  discovered  a  mass  growing  in Applicant’s brain. In December 29, 2019, Applicant underwent a CT scan and an MRI, to determine whether a pituitary mass growing in his brain was a pituitary adenoma .    The  MRI  reflected  a  “sellar  mass  with suprasellar extension and areas of internal high density which may represent hemorrhage and  pituitary  apoplexy.    He  was  admitted  to  a  hospital  immediately,  with indications of “pituitary apoplexy with pituitary adenoma.” He underwent surgery, which found hemorrhagic pituitary macro adenoma, and the pituitary mass was removed.  He was released from the hospital on January 2, 2020.  A follow-up MRI in March 2020 indicated that the surgery was successful and the mass was gone.  Applicant testified that the doctors told him that mass was at least three or four years old.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  presented  medical  literature  reflecting  that  pituitary adenomas  can  cause  recurrent  headaches,  anxiety,  decreased  concentration,  fatigue, depression, and hormonal dysregulation that causes mood disorders.  A medical professional from the VA opined that Applicant’s depression, anxiety, and anger were likely exacerbated by a brain tumor.  Applicant’s treatment plan provides for annual CT scans for the next five years.   He  is  also  being  treated  by  an  endocrinologist,  because  the  pituitary  gland dysfunction  damaged  his  hormonal  system.  He  testified  that  his  headaches  are  less severe, and he treats them with over-the-counter drugs instead of the stronger drugs that he received previously. His mood is “happier.”  Applicant  continues  to  receive  treatment  for  his  mental  health.  He  takes Propranolol    and  Cymbalta  .  He  sees  a behavioral health professional from the VA once a month.  His VA provider states that he has been compliant with his treatment.  Two co-workers who have observed Applicant during the past year attested to his technical skill, leadership skill, and his trustworthiness under pressure, which led to his promotion to a leadership position one month after beginning his current job,. One co- worker commented specifically on his communication skills and management style that make customers and his team members feel important and valued.  An Air Force senior master sergeant who is Applicant’s government office manager describes him as motivated, hard-working, and skilled. He states: “I have been impressed by his strong communication skills and his ability to establish a comfortable rapport with others. He comes across as confident, mature, and highly capable to handle short notice taskers. . . . ”  “[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484  U.S.  518,  528 .  As  Commander  in  Chief, the President  has  the authority  to 