Applicant denied  all  of  the  SOR allegations.  After a  careful review  of  the  pleadings and evidence, I make the  following  additional findings of  fact. Applicant  is  47  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  a  government  contractor  as  a technical  support  specialist  since  January  2019.  He  received  a  certificate  from  a community college in 2011. His military service includes serving in the Air Force on active duty from 1991 to 2001. He received an honorable discharge  for that service. He also served in the Army National Guard from 2002 to 2005. He was also honorably discharged from that service. He is divorced and has two adult children.  The  SOR  alleged  six  delinquent  debts totaling  approximately  $62,000.  The debts are comprised of a foreclosed mortgage account and several collections accounts .  The  debts  are  supported  by  a  credit  reports  from February  2019  and  October  2019,  and  his  statement  to  an  investigator  in  April  2019.  Applicant offered no specific reasons for his financial distress; however, he went through a divorce in 2014 and was unemployed for over two years from January 2009 to November 2011. At the time he was interviewed by a defense investigator in April 2019, he had not received any financial counseling.  The status of his debts is as follows: SOR  ¶  1.a-Foreclosed  Mortgage  Account-.  Applicant  claims  that pursuant to his divorce decree, his ex-wife was responsible for the mortgage payments because  she  was  awarded  the  house  in  their  divorce.  He  did  not  offer  the  divorce settlement in evidence. His ex-wife failed to make the required payments and the property was sold through foreclosure in April 2016. Court documents show that Applicant and his ex-wife  were  both  named  defendants  in  the  foreclosure  proceedings.  There  is  no evidence of a deficiency amount owed by Applicant. This debt does  not appear on his most recent credit report in evidence. This debt is resolved.  SOR  ¶  1.b-Collection  Account-Repossessed  Car-.  Applicant acknowledged  purchasing  this  vehicle  in  his  SOR  answer,  however,  he  disputed  the 2 amount  owed  based  upon  his  belief  that  the  company  engaged  in  predatory  loan practices. He voluntarily returned the car in March 2017. He has called the creditor several times, but has never received a call back. He is currently disputing this debt with a credit- repair company. This debt is being resolved.  SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d-Student Loans-. Applicant negotiated to have his student loans picked up by another lending service, and his June 2020 credit report reflected  that  he  was  current  on  his  student  loans,  having  timely  made  the  last  three months payments. These debts are being resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.e-Student Loan-. Applicant provided documentation showing this debt was paid in April 2020. This debt is resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.f-Medical Debt-. Applicant claims he paid this debt, and it does not appear on either his August 2019 or his June 2020 credit reports. This debt is resolved.  Applicant  also  provided  documentation  related  to  two  other  non-SOR  financial obligations. He demonstrated that he made all his required car payments from February 2017  through  February  2020.  That  loan  is  now  paid.  He  also  documented  that  he  is current on a line of credit he received in 2017. . 