Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  through  1.e,  with  some explanation. He denied SOR allegation ¶ 1.f. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  49-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since 2010.  Applicant emigrated from what is now Ukraine , and  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  December  of  1991.      He  is  married  to  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  who  also  emigrated from Ukraine.  Applicant has four adult children, and a 13 year- old  son.    Both  Applicant’s  father  and  an  uncle,  because  of  their Pentecostal religious beliefs, were sent to Soviet prisons where they perished.  Applicant is a “deacon” for his Pentecostal church, as  evidenced  by  a  letter from his “Pastor.”    Applicant  net  worth  in the United States is about $400,000.  1.a.  and  1.d.  Applicant  brother,  who  is  married  to  a  German  national,  is  a  dual national of Germany and Ukraine.  This  brother  is  a  Pentecostal  missionary,  who  at times travels to  Russia,  but presently  resides  “in  Estonia  or Latvia.”   Since  about  2007,  Applicant  has  provided  about  $100  each  month  in financial support for his missionary brother.  In 2013, Applicant also provided this brother with a lump sum, one-time $5,000 gift.  2 1.b.  Applicant’s  other  brother,  and  his  two  sisters,  are  citizens  and  residents  of Ukraine.    His  brother  “is  working construction” in Germany.   Applicant’s two sisters are both housewives living in the Ukraine. One is the mother of “18 kids,” and the other  “had  11”  children.    None  of  these siblings have any connection with the Ukrainian government. 1.c.  and  1.e.  Applicant’s  77  year-old  mother-in-law  is  a  “retired”  citizen  and resident of the Ukraine  Since about 1994, Applicant, through his wife, has provided about $100 each month in financial support for his  mother-in-law.    Applicant’s  mother-in-law  has  no connection with the Ukrainian government. 1.f.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was  investigated  in  2015  for  possible  connections with a Russian/Armenian criminal organization.   No  such  connection  was  found,  and  Applicant denies any such connection.  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts:  Ukraine  is  a  republic  with  a semi-presidential  political  system.  In  2014,  the  Ukrainian  parliament  approved  a  new government, which caused Russia to respond by seizing Ukraine’s Crimean peninsula. Additional  unrest  occurred  in  2014,  involving  thousands  of  pro-Russian  protesters  in eastern  and  southern  Ukraine.  In  2015,  a  ceasefire  agreement  established  a  de  facto dividing  line  between  Ukrainian  government-controlled  and  separatist-held  areas  in Ukraine.  