Applicant is 36 years old, a high school graduate with an associate degree, and is taking  online  courses  to  finish  her  bachelor’s  degree  by  June  2020.  Applicant  has  six children between 16 and 3 years of age. She is unmarried, but for 18 years she lived with her partner, who is the father of her six children. He died in August 2018. Since August 2016, Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor. This is the first time she has applied for a security clearance.  The SOR alleged that Applicant has 18 delinquent accounts totaling $26,978, of which $4,939 are for medical accounts.  Applicant denied 13 of those accounts.  She admitted five of those accounts.  The denied debts are supported by the record.  SOR ¶ 1.a is a judgment for $1,046. Applicant testified that this judgment has been settled, and post-hearing, she produced a document supporting that claim.  This debt has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.b is a medical debt for $1,047. Applicant testified that she contacted the credit  bureau,  and  they  could  not  tell  her  the  origin  of  this  debt.  She  went  online  and disputed this debt, but it has not been removed from her credit report.  SOR ¶ 1.c is a medical debt for $623. Applicant was unable to find out the origin of this debt.  SOR  ¶¶  1.d and e  are  collection  debts for $76  and  $73,  respectively.  Applicant testified that she settled those debts and produced documents post-hearing supporting that claim.  Those debts have been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.f is a judgment for $649. Applicant testified that her landlord at the time was supposed to include the cost of oil heat in her monthly rent. He failed to do so and had opened the account in Applicant’s name.  He proceeded to file a judgment against her.  SOR ¶¶ 1.g and h are student loans for $3,734 and $2,843, respectively. Applicant testified that those loans are no longer in default. At the hearing and post-hearing, she 2 produced documents supporting that claim.  Those debts have been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.i is credit card delinquency for $425. Applicant testified that she brought any  past-due  balance  current  in  December  2017.  She  is  supported  by  an  exhibit  she produced at the hearing.  This debt has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.j is a $2,430 debt owed to a cell phone provider. Applicant testified that this was an account set up for her now deceased partner. She called the provider in April 2018 and was told that no amount was due. She also has a cell phone with the same provider, and she is current on that account.  This debt has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.k is a medical debt for $1,210. Applicant testified that she was not able to find the origin of that debt and could not verify the amount alleged.  SOR  ¶  1.l  is a  medical debt for $860.  Applicant  testified  that  she  contacted  the creditor in June 2018 to remove the debt in connection with her home purchase. She has not filed any written dispute.  SOR ¶ 1.m is a medical debt for $815. Applicant testified that she called the phone number that was on the credit report and all she got was her account number. Applicant took no further steps and did not file a dispute.  SOR ¶ 1.n is a debt owed to a cell phone provider for $640. Applicant testified that she recognized this debt. She contacted the provider in about July 2016 and learned that it was an early termination fee. Applicant disputed the debt because she moved out of the provider’s service area and was told that she did not have to pay an early termination fee. She did not file a written dispute.  SOR ¶ 1.o is a medical debt for $593. Applicant did not recognize this debt.  SOR ¶ 1.p is a medical debt for $523. Applicant did not recognize this debt. She explained that for all the SOR debts she denied, she was trying to clean up her credit report  in  connection  with  buying  her  house  in  August  2018.  Applicant  went  on  Credit Karma and clicked the “Dispute” selection for the denied debts. She never heard anything back  from  Credit  Karma.  Applicant  has  no  written  documentation  that  confirms  those debts are disputed.  SOR ¶ 1.q is a $428 debt for a car rental. Applicant allowed a friend to rent a car using her credit card. Applicant recalled that there was some damage to the car that her friend failed to pay. The rental was paid but not for the damage. Applicant testified that it happened when she was very young, over 10 years ago. The debt was written off, but she  does  not  know  when.  Applicant  is  currently  able  to  rent  from  the  same  car  rental company.  3 SOR ¶ 1.r is a medical debt for $129. Applicant has two accounts with this medical insurer. She is not sure which account this debt is for. Applicant disputed this debt on Credit Karma in about April or June 2018.   Applicant  testified  about  her personal finances.  She has not  taken  any financial counseling. Applicant’s full-time employment with the defense contractor pays $50,000 per year. She also has a business on the side doing children’s parties and other child entertainment  events.  That  averages  about  $1,500  per  month.  Those  incomes  yield $5,667 take-home pay per month.  Applicant’s mortgage is $2,800 per month. She receives $528 per month in child assistance.  Her  brother  pays  for  her  children’s  clothes.  Applicant’s  gas,  utilities,  auto insurance, and miscellaneous expenses come to about $785 per month. She has no car payments. Applicant owns two cars, but both are paid off. Her monthly remainder is about $1,100 per month. Of that remainder, Applicant puts $500 per month in the bank so she “does not see it.” The remaining $1,000 Applicant uses to pay bills. She has about $1,500 in savings and about $3,500 in her retirement account.  Applicant’s deceased partner made $75,000 per year as an electrical contractor. When he died, she lost 60% of the household income. If she needs financial help, her father, brother, an aunt, and an uncle can be counted on to assist her. Applicant has had gaps  in  her  employment  history  due  to  a  workplace  injury  that  put  her  on  workers’ compensation. She still suffers from residual effects of that injury. Applicant also had gaps in employment due to pregnancies.  