Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  and  1.d,~1.f.  He  denied SOR  allegation  ¶¶  1.b,  1.c,  1.g,  and  1.h  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed with the defense contractor since April of 2016.  He is “separated” from his spouse; and has three son’s ages “20, 12 and 10,” The two youngest live with Applicant.   Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  for  “16  or  17  years,”  but  family concerns  and  a  personnel  “draw  down”  caused  Applicant  to  leave  active  duty.   Guideline F – Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant  admits  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  A  for  a  past-due  debt  of about  $544.  He  has  engaged  the  services  of  a  debt  counseling  service;  and  through that  service,  he  is making  monthly  payments  of  $197  towards  this  and  his  other past- due debts.  1.b.  Applicant  denies  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  B  for  a  past-due  debt  of about  $250.  He  believes  this  debt  is  actually  owed  by  his  eldest  son;  but  in  an abundance  of  caution,  he  is  making  monthly  payments  of  $197  towards  this  debt  and his other past-due debts.  1.c.  Applicant  denies  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  C  for  a  past-due  debt  of about $60. He has “no idea what this is”; but in an abundance of caution, he is making monthly payments of $197 towards this debt and his other past-due debts.  1.d.  Applicant  admits  that  he  owed  the  Internal  Revenue  Service    a  past- due tax lien in the amended amount of $290.   He  has  been  in contact with the IRS ; and has “PAID” the amended amount, as evidenced by documentation from the IRS . 1.e.  Applicant  admits  that  he  owed  the  IRS  a  second  past-due  tax  lien  in  the original amount of $16,928.  He has been in contact with the IRS 2 ;  and  the  amount  owed  has  yet  to  be  determined,  as  evidenced  by documentation from the IRS . 1.f. Applicant admits that he owed IRS a third past-due tax lien in the amended amount of $364.  He has been in contact with the IRS ; and  has  “PAID”  the  amended  amount,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  the  IRS . 1.g.  Applicant  denies  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  G  for  a  past-due  debt  of about $53. He does not “recall owing them anything”; but in an abundance of caution, he is making monthly payments of $197 towards this debt and his other past-due debts.  1.h.  Applicant  denies  that  he  is  indebted  to  Creditor  H  for  a  past-due  debt  of about $270. He does not recall owing them anything; but in an abundance of caution, he is  making  monthly  payments  of  $197  towards  this  debt  and  his  other  past-due  debts.  