In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant partially admitted, with comments, three of the factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  .  He  denied  the  remaining allegations. Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact: Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as  a  maintenance  control  lead  with  his  current  employer  since  February  2010.  He previously served as a product handler with a chemical company from March 2008 until February  2010.  He  is  a  1996  high  school  graduate,  with  some  college  credits,  but  no degree. Appellant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in October 2001, and he served on active duty until August 2007, when he was honorably discharged as an airman 1st class . Several  months  before  his  discharge,  Applicant  was  disciplined  by  Article  15,  Uniform Code of Military Justice  for violating a no-contact order with his estranged wife, and he was reduced in grade from senior airman .  Applicant was married in 2001, and divorced in 2008. He remarried in 2008. He has two children, born in 2004 and 2016. He was granted a top secret clearance in 2003. Military Awards and Decorations During his military career, Appellant received the Air Force Achievement Medal, Air Force Good Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, the Air Force Longevity Service Award; the Air Force Training Ribbon,  and  the  Air  Force  Outstanding  Unit  Award.  ) He was also the recipient of numerous letters 2 of  appreciation  issued  by  his  commanders  during  the  period  2003  to  2006.  He  was repeatedly recognized as the staff professional of his squadron and group.  Psychological Conditions In April 2003, Applicant was diagnosed by the flight commander of the Life Skills Support Center  – a member of the Biomedical Sciences Corps  – as having an  adjustment  disorder  with  mixed  anxiety  and  depressed  mood,  in  part  because  of marital issues involving his wife’s $200 bar bill and a traumatic incident, described by his wife as an assault upon her by an instructor during a business trip. Applicant was referred to a family practice physician, and prescribed Xanax, a sedative used to treat anxiety and panic disorder. His case was closed on April 14, 2003, with no follow-up required. , at 25-30) During 2004, Applicant and his pregnant wife were in the midst of marital discord and hostility, which eventually erupted into an ugly divorce and continuing child custody battles involving the police, the courts, the command, and military medical personnel. On May 12, 2004, Applicant started experiencing panic attacks, blurred vision, and dizziness, so he sought emergency medical assistance. He was diagnosed with panic attack and administered a low dose of Temazepam – used to treat anxiety and insomnia. He was released. , at 79-90) The following day, Applicant voluntarily went to the Life Skills Support Clinic at the base, where he was diagnosed by another LSSC flight commander as having Axis I: panic disorder without  agoraphobia  ,  and V61.1  problems  with social environment – partner relationship problem, and he was scheduled for inquiry and counseling  for  marital  conflict.  He  was  prescribed  Paxil  and  Ativan  as  needed  –  both antidepressant medications approved for the treatment of anxiety.  On May 19, 2004, after a 45-minute interview for marital and partner problems, unspecified, he was again diagnosed with the same Axis I disorders, and he was again released. He was seen again for the same issues on June 2, 2004 ; June 15, 2004 ;  and  again  on  July  6,  2004  ,  and  was  released  without limitations. The July 6th diagnosis noted that the Axis I panic disorder without agoraphobia was improved. Applicant needed no further follow up and the case was closed.  There is one medical record in evidence that is inaccurate. It states that an incident occurred on November 28, 2004, when Applicant was 28 years old .  On  that  date,  Applicant’s  1st  sergeant  supposedly  referred  him  to  the  chief, social  work  services,  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker,  because  of  allegations  that Applicant had threatened to kill his wife and daughter, as well as kill himself. Applicant denied  the  allegations,  and  noted  that  he  and  his  wife  were  separated,  and  she  was having an affair with a former friend. When he reported the situation to his commander, the  commander  issued  a  no-contact  order  against  him.  However,  no  such  order  was issued in 2004. A No Contact Order was issued against Applicant on February 13, 2007, and again on April 30, 2007.  Regardless of the date in issue, Applicant denied any 3 suicidal or homicidal ideations. Despite the nature of the allegations, no immediate follow- up was ordered in the record, and Applicant was released.  On  November  29,  2006,  a  command-directed  evaluation  was  ordered,  and Applicant went to the Mental Health Clinic. He was reportedly evaluated on that date and on  December  1,  2006,  when  he  was  seen  for  45  minutes  regarding  the  adjustment disorder  issues.  Although  Applicant  denied  any  suicidal  or  homicidal  ideations,  “given incongruent  corroborating  information,  he  was  determined  to  be  at  significant  risk  of potential  suicidal  and/or  homicidal action.”  The  “incongruent  corroborating  information” was  not  described  or  identified.  The  licensed  clinical  psychologist  and  the  life  skills element  chief  concluded  that  Applicant  “reflected  delusions  of  persecution  but  no hallucinations.”  The  specifics  of  the  “delusions”  were  not  described  or  identified.  They reported  a  diagnosis  of  Axis  I:  300.01,  V61.1,  as  well  as  rule  out  delusional  disorder, persecutory  type  –  an  illness  characterized  by  at  least  one month  of  delusions  but  no other psychotic symptoms. His Global Assessment of Functioning  Scale was 50, lowered to 45: serious symptoms.  At some point, Applicant was prescribed Effexor  –  used  to  treat  depression,  generalized  anxiety  disorder,  and  panic  disorder. Applicant  chose  to  not  attend  a  follow-up  appointment  with  the  licensed  clinical psychologist.  On December 19-20, 2006, he was again seen by the clinical social worker regarding administrative purposes.  On February 26, 2007, Applicant presented himself at the clinic to be evaluated for allegedly  making  statements  regarding  killing  his  wife  and  child,  comments  he  denied making,  in  anticipation  of  appearing  in  court  the  following  day.  Despite  displaying  no psychotic signs or paranoia, and denying any suicidal intent or plan, and having intact judgment,  it  was  determined  that  he  was  “a  moderate  risk  to  self  and/or  others  based upon  the  apparent  discrepancy  in  reports and  history  even  though he  currently  denies [suicidal ideation/homicidal ideation],” and he was diagnosed as follows: Axis I: V61.12 physical abuse of adult. The previous disorder 300.01 was not mentioned. The specifics of the “apparent discrepancy in reports and history” as well as the basis for the V61.12 diagnosis  were  not  described  or  identified.  Despite  the  moderate  risk  that  Applicant supposedly displayed, he was not scheduled to be seen in a follow up for another week.  On  March  23,  2007,  Applicant  was  seen  in  the  Family  Advocacy  Center  for  a follow-up appointment. He reported that he had been disciplined and deemed ineligible for  reenlistment,  and  was  scheduled  to  separate  from  active  duty  in  August  2007. Apparently despondent over the entire turn of events, he said that the Air Force had failed him and he no longer had any use for it.  He also said that “hitting a woman or child is intolerable.”  The record reports that in a previous visit, without specifying the date of that visit, Applicant said that “this uniform and his daughter keep him from harming his wife and her alleged boyfriend.” A report of such comments does not appear in any of the  medical  records  submitted  to  me.  Upon  being  questioned  by  the  family  advocacy officer, Applicant reportedly made several comments about his past as a member of the Italian mafia, harming various individuals and intimidating others, but he later disputed that scenario, claiming that he was merely discussing a television show, The Sopranos, and song lyrics.  When asked if he wanted to harm his wife and 4 her alleged boyfriend, he responded that if he wanted to do so, “they’d be gone already.” He was diagnosed as follows: Axis I: V61.12 perpetrator of spouse abuse, and Axis II: 301.81  narcissistic  personality  disorder,  meets  criteria  1  , 2 , 5 , 7 , and  9  .  ,  at  717)  The previous disorder 300.01 was not mentioned. There is no explanation regarding the basis of the source of the diagnosis “perpetrator of spouse abuse,” or the conclusions pertaining to the criteria supporting the Axis II disorder. Despite the comments made, Applicant was not  deemed  to  be  suicidal  or  homicidal,  and  the  risk  remained  moderate.  He  was scheduled to return in two weeks for a risk assessment. Thereafter, on three different occasions in April 2007, May 2007, and August 2007, Applicant  was  reportedly  seen  by  the  same  licensed  clinical  psychologist.  The  same diagnoses were carried over without any new evaluations. The April 2007 mental health record indicated that a Treatment Team Meeting  was conducted, and that a full Family Advocacy  report was attached. No such report was in the file.  During the May 2007 session, one week before Applicant was scheduled to commence his  terminal  leave  ,  Applicant  stated  that  during  his  last  session  with  a particular provider, he “finally talked about his real issues.” There is no medical record in evidence to reflect that particular session. No diagnostic changes were made.  Although there was no session conducted thereafter, there is a Mental Health Record made by the licensed clinical psychologist that the record was being closed. That record contains  the  following  statement:  “the  impact  of  the  treatment  of  military  was administratively  discharged  from  active  duty  service  based  on  the  results  of  the [Command Directed Evaluation] and diagnosis of personality disorder.”  That characterization  is  patently  false,  and  without  any  basis  in  fact,  and  the  source  of  the comment is not known. Separation action was never initiated, and the Separation Code on Applicant’s DD Form 214 was expiration of term of service, and his Reentry Code was serving suspended punishment to Art. 15.  Despite  a  plethora  of  clinical  notes  and  session  reports,  none  of  the  Air  Force healthcare providers who interviewed, evaluated, diagnosed, or treated Applicant actually performed a mental health evaluation as described in DOD Instruction   6490.4, Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the  Armed Forces ; DOD Instruction 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces  ;  or  The  American  Psychiatric  Association    Practice Guideline for the Psychiatric Evaluation of Adults, 2nd Edition . A mental health evaluation under DODI 6490.4 shall consist of, at a minimum: A  clinical  interview  and  mental  status  examination  and  may  include, additionally: a review of medical records; a review of other records, such as the  Service  personnel  record;  information  forwarded  by  the  Service member’s commanding officer; psychological testing; physical examination; and laboratory and/or other specialized testing. Interviews conducted by the  Family  Advocacy  Program  .  .  .  are  not considered  mental health 5 evaluations  for  the  purpose  of  [DODI  6490.1  .  .  .  and  [DODI  6490.4].   There  are  the  repeated  presence  of  terms  such  as  suicidal  ideation,  homicidal ideation,  and  depression  in  the  clinical  records,  but  not  one  of  the  clinical  records  in evidence indicates that any psychological testing was administered. There is no mention of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, 2nd revised version , used for  measuring  adult  psychopathology;  the  Columbia  Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale   to gather lifetime history of suicidality as well as any recent suicidal ideation or behavior;  the  Personality  Assessment  Inventory    to  assess  emotional  and personality functioning; the Behavior and Symptom Identification Scale - 24  to assess the outcome of mental health or substance abuse treatment from the client’s perspective; the Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, 3rd Edition  to measure 24 personality  disorders  in  assisting  clinicians  in  psychiatric  diagnoses,  developing  a treatment approach, and guiding treatment decisions; the Patient Health Questionnaire   to  screen,  diagnose,  monitor,  and  measure  the  severity  of  depression;  the Patient  Health  Questionnaire    to  screen,  diagnose,  monitor,  and  measure  the severity of depression; the Screening for Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 2 , to screen generalized anxiety; or the Screening for Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 7  to screen generalized anxiety. Moreover, while there are several diagnoses, the clinicians failed to indicate why or how those impressions were specifically reached. Applicant repeatedly denied suicidal ideations  despite  constant  probing  about  his  reported  disorders.  He  felt  that  he  was wrongfully suspected of having suicidal ideations or homicidal ideations, as well as what he considered false allegations against him by his wife and her boyfriend, and he was disappointed that the Air Force had failed him in summarily believing the worst about him, and disciplining him. At that point, he simply quit and started discussing the Italian mafia, a television show, and some song lyrics. His position was seen as reluctance, sometimes referred  to  as  resistance,  and  was  considered  unacceptable,  and  it  was  not  otherwise examined  or  analyzed  by  the  clinicians,  although  such  an  action  is  acknowledged  in psychoanalysis. Sigmund Freud defined resistance as “whatever interrupts the progress of analytic work,” such as being late, missing a session, “holding back” your thoughts in the moment  or avoiding a particular issue. In its most simple and practical sense, resistance results from fear. On the other hand, Jacques Lacan, a French psychoanalyst  and  psychiatrist,  warned  not  to  confuse  resistance  with  defense and formulated the famous statement that “there is no other resistance to analysis than that of  the  analyst  himself.”  In  other  words,  if  the  psychotherapist  makes  interpretations  or interventions  that  are  clinically  inaccurate,  the  client  will  get  defensive,  and  that  will interrupt the therapeutic work. In plain English, this means that a client will only explore therapeutic  material  so  far  as  is  comfortable  in  the  moment;  the  psychotherapist, therefore, must always be aware of just how far the client is willing to go and not “push” the client beyond these temporary limits. Imprudent attempts to push a client can end up pushing the client right out of psychotherapy, which seems to be the reason why Applicant chose not to fully participate in it. ,  in  Vol.  V,  The  standard edition of the complete psychological works of Sigmund Freud , at p. 517; Jacques Lacan, “The Freudian thing, or the meaning of the return to Freud in psychoanalysis.” In Écrits: A selection, trans. Alan Sheridan , at p. 129; Jacques Lacan, “The direction of  the  treatment  and  the  principles  of  its  power.”  In  Écrits:  A  selection,  trans.  Alan Sheridan , at p. 235.) As noted above, Applicant’s relationship with his wife eventually erupted into an ugly  divorce  and  continuing  child  custody  battles  involving  the  police,  the  courts,  the command,  and  military  medical  personnel.  His  wife  started  filing  actions  against  him shortly  before  she  filed  for  divorce.  First  there  were  allegations  that  Applicant  had threatened her and their daughter as well as a report that Applicant had threatened his wife’s boyfriend, both of which severely limited Applicant’s access to his daughter, and resulted  in  the  issuance  of  protective  orders  against  Applicant,  as  well  as  his  being diagnosed for physical abuse of an adult. There are no statements from either Applicant’s wife or her boyfriend in evidence to support any of those actions. The Military Protective Order  cites  as  the  sole  basis  for  the  issuance  of  the  order  that  Applicant’s  wife  “is concerned for her safety and [Applicant has] shown behavior that could be interpreted as threatening.” .  Applicant  was  subsequently  disciplined  and reduced  in  grade for reportedly violating the no-contact orders, despite his assertions that her allegations were baseless. Without substantially more information, there is nothing upon which to interpret threatening behavior, or violations. Likewise, there is no information, statement, or police report to support the basis for the issuance of no-contact orders, temporary injunctions, or the disciplinary punishment. During 2006 and 2007, there were a number of temporary injunctions for protection against domestic violence with minor children filed against Applicant , as  well  as  an  attempt  to  acquire  child  custody  ;  and  motions  for  extensions  of injunction from protection against domestic violence.  Applicant had to file a motion for contempt and imposition of sanctions against his wife in 2007, because she refused to comply with his child visitation rights.  The Final Judgment of Divorce was  entered  January  16,  2008.    Applicant’s  ex-wife  filed  three  motions  for  civil contempt against Applicant in 2012, but all of them were denied, including one for a late payment of $5.25 as part of a check that she refused to accept.  She also claimed that  Applicant  had  sexually  abused  their  daughter  in  2012,  but  that  charge  was subsequently dropped. On October 2, 2012, on January 23, 2013, and again on March 20, 2013, Applicant attended a Deprivation Hearing, based on a complaint filed on behalf of Applicant’s ex- wife. During that hearing, Applicant’s ex-wife testified that before their divorce, Applicant purchased a handgun and threatened to shoot her with it and take their daughter away. She reported the threat and the military took his weapon away. When he did it a second time, another handgun was taken from him, and under the local Baker Act – an existing law that provides for temporary institutionalization of individuals who meet certain criteria. It  can  only  be  used  by  specific  authorized  persons,  including  judges,  mental  health professionals,  law  enforcement  personnel,  and  doctors.  More  importantly,  the  law  is limited  by  the  fact  that  those  officials  must  have  sound  evidence  suggesting  that  the 7 individual might meet the Act’s definition for mental illness. In addition, he must pose a risk of harm to himself or others – or demonstrate self-neglect. It should be noted that the statutory criteria require more than mere suspicion of mental illness or potential risk. The statute specifically calls for “substantial” evidence, which is much higher bar than simple suspicion.  As  a  result,  people  cannot  be  involuntarily  institutionalized  simply  because they’re  acting  strangely,  refuse  to  seek  psychiatric  examinations,  or  have  occasional mood swings or outbursts. Applicant’s ex-wife described their daughter as always crying before, during, and after her interactions with Applicant. However, the guardian ad litem expressed that she had no concerns about the child being around Applicant or his weapons. Nevertheless, Applicant’s  ex-wife  argued  that  Applicant  should  be  disqualified  from  possessing  a concealed weapon because he had been in a mental hospital.  The matter was finally dropped, and Applicant was, once again, granted full visitation rights. In 2017, the DOD CAF referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation. He was interviewed for an unspecified period and administered only one psychological test: the PAI,  but  the  results  of  that  test  were  deemed  invalid.  In  a  psychological  report,  dated November  21,  2017,  that  clinician  noted  that  she  had  reviewed  “the  medical  record,” without  identifying  any  of  the  specific  documents,  and  she  discounted  several  of Applicant’s  comments  as  being  at  odds  with  information  that  was  in  the  unidentified materials furnished to her by the DOD CAF: that he has a history of hospitalization for suicidal  and  homicidal  ideation;  that  he  had  been  discharged  due  to  the  results  of  a command  directed  evaluation  and  diagnosis  of  personality  disorder;  that  a  review  of medical  records  indicates  scenarios  involving  threats  to  his  ex-wife’s  boyfriend;  that Applicant’s denials regarding threats of violence to his ex-wife and her now-husband are inconsistent with the accounts of events in the records furnished; that Applicant’s denials of any history of suicidal or homicidal ideation are refuted by the records to the contrary; that  he  denied  other  events  that  are  noted  within  the  record;  that  he  tends  to  portray himself as being exceptionally free of common shortcomings to which most individuals will admit; and that Applicant’s comments regarding disputed information is considered to be of questionable validity.  The psychologist concluded: Applicant has a documented history of narcissistic personality disorder, but interestingly  also  shows  some  of  the  atypical  thinking  , odd speech, and social skill deficits  commonly seen in an individual with schizotypal personality disorder. The diagnosis in this case would render the patient in need of consistent treatment , but this has clearly not occurred at this point. My prognosis is poor, given the ingrained nature of his issues and poor likelihood for treatment compliance.  His  psychological  symptoms  could  certainly  impede  his judgment. . . Based upon his legal history, volatile mood and behaviors, and his history of interpersonal conflicts, it appears that [Applicant] is likely to have impaired reliability.  8 Because  of  the  lack  of  specificity  in  the  psychological  report,  especially  when  it comes to source documentation upon which Applicant’s comments were not accepted, as well as to the source documentation or other information upon which the psychologist relied  to  find  the  presence  of  unusual  beliefs,  paranoia,  odd  speech,  and  social  skill deficits  ,  and  the  absence  of  psychological testing, it is unclear if the psychologist complied with the requirements of DODI 6490.4, Mental  Health  Evaluations  of  Members  of  the  Military  Services  ;  DOD Instruction 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces ; or even the APA Practice Guidelines for the Psychiatric Evaluation of Adults – 3rd Edition . In this regard, while Applicant is not currently a member of the military services, it remains unclear if the DODIs have been adopted for DOD CAF purposes with respect to government contractors. Accordingly, the thoroughness and accuracy of the evaluation report remain open to question. Work Performance and Character References The former officer-in charge of the unit where Applicant served between October 2004 and July 2006, stated that Applicant displayed exceptional positive characteristics in duty performance, leadership qualities and in his personal life. His dedication to the mission  was  always  exhibited  through  outstanding  performance.  He  volunteered  for several  events.  Off  duty,  Applicant  attended  church  and  played  softball  for  his  church team. Applicant was one of his hardest-working, knowledgeable troops that he would not only want working in his section, but one day running it.  The former operations officer of the squadron considered Applicant to be a critical member of the unit whose performance was never less than exceptional. Applicant’s duty performance,  military  bearing,  and  professionalism  were  of  the  highest  level.  Not  only was he skilled in his primary duties, but he continuously  sought additional workload to ease the burden on fellow colleagues. He would, without hesitation, bank on Applicant’s ability to accomplish any task presented to him.   The  former  superintendent  of  the  maintenance  operations  flight  described Applicant’s professionalism, military bearing and duty performance to be of the highest level. He supported the squadron booster club by donating his time to help raise funds for the  squadron’s holiday  party  and  other activities,  and  was  an avid  supporter  of  the local community, helping to build homes for Habitat for Humanity.  Current coworkers, including the president of the local union, have described him in stressful and complicated situations requiring high levels of patience, intelligence, and understanding,  and  Applicant  met  every  challenge,  deadline,  and  goal  presented  and tackled every problem with grace and ease. Many of Applicant’s solutions were insightful and  practical,  and  he  showed  a  remarkable  capacity  for  breaking  large  issues  into manageable  segments.  Applicant  is  also  a  cooperative  and  attentive  team  player.  His actions consistently inspired and motivated other employees in the office. Applicant was instrumental in assisting members who are out of work, as well as assisting those affected by a hurricane. He has always been honest and forthcoming.  9 One  character  witness  met  Applicant  in  2002  when  the  witness  was  newly stationed at the same base. Applicant opened his home to the new arrival and invited him to the house for the 4th of July celebrations. He noted that Applicant was always receiving awards because he was a top airman.  Applicant was always willing to give his shirt off his back for people. He never saw Applicant become angry or enraged. As time went on, the  witness  and  Applicant  and  his  wife  did  many  things  together,  and  Applicant’s relationship with his wife seemed normal. Things changed when Applicant’s wife started dating another individual who was residing in their home. It was the witness’s impression that Applicant’s wife would “cry wolf” and be vengeful. At one point, while the witness was residing in Applicant’s house, Applicant’s wife  lied when she  said that the witness had cornered her in the kitchen – something that never happened – so he immediately moved out of the house. Applicant’s wife’s boyfriend kept threatening Applicant for years, saying that  he  was  going  to  “kick  his  butt.”  As  Applicant’s  marital  situation  became  more antagonistic, it was the witness’s impression that the unit leadership was supportive of Applicant, but the Command was simply trying to cover themselves by following protocol. The  witness  has  never  seen  Applicant  display  any  suicidal  or  homicidal  ideation.  He believes Applicant is trustworthy and has integrity.  One character witness has known Applicant since they were in the same military unit. After Applicant relocated, they met one day at a local store, and Applicant told him about  an  employment  opening,  and  they  have  been  with  the  same  employer  since November 2010.  Before  joining  the  same organization,  the  witness  served  as  a police officer. The witness was aware of Applicant’s marital situation, hearing about it from other people, and seeing Applicant’s reactions. There were threats, legal action, unnecessary legal action, and going after money by the ex-wife and her now husband. He has never seen Applicant lose his temper or act irrationally. Applicant has come to his aid and helped move the witness’s mother. About 12 or 13 years ago, the Command issued a be-on-the lookout  flyer on Applicant. Applicant’s reputation as a coworker is spectacular.  