Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  SOR,  except  for  SOR  allegation  ¶  1.a. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He has been employed as a linguist with the defense contractor since January of  2017.    In  August  of  2017,  while  on  patrol  with  U.S.  Marines, Applicant was wounded by a suicide bomber.  He has submitted eight letters of support ,  to  include  one  from  a  Brigadier  General  ,  and  numerous Certificates of Appreciation . Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a. Applicant denied that his mother is a citizen and resident of Afghanistan, as she  is  now  deceased.    This occurred in January of 2018, and Applicant could not attend her funeral as he could not leave the protection of his military post.  1.b.  Applicant  admits  that  three  brothers  are  citizens  and  residents  of Afghanistan.  Two of these brothers are merchants, and the third a teacher.  To the best of his  knowledge  and  belief  none  of  these  brothers  are  connected  to  the  Afghan government. 1.c.  Applicant  admits  that  a  fourth  brother,  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of Afghanistan, was a “Clerk” for the Afghan government.  He is currently unemployed, but most recently worked for a U.S. company.  1.d. Applicant admits that between 2010~2016, he gave a total of about $5,000 to a brother, in support of his, now deceased, mother. Applicant disclosed this financial 2 to the  U.S.  Government, in  January  of  2011,  as  evidenced  by  his support Counterintelligence-Focused  Security  Screening  Questionnaire  .   Guideline E - Personal Conduct 2.a. Applicant answered “No” on his February 2017 e-QIP to the question: “Have you EVER provided financial support for any foreign national?”  He mistakenly thought this question did not apply to his immediate family.   Applicant  had already  disclosed  his  mother’s  financial  support,  through  his  brother,  in  his  January 2011 CFSSQ. He reaffirmed his 2011 admission, just 12 days after he executed his e- QIP, when he again executed a February 2017 CFSSQ.  I find no willful falsification, here. 2.b.  Applicant  admits  that  he  resided  in  the  United  States  illegally  from  about 2006~2010. In about 2003, as an 18 year old,  he started working as an interpreter for U.S. Forces in Afghanistan.  In 2006, while Applicant was training in the United States, he discovered he was on a “hit list” if and when he returned to Afghanistan.   As a result, he went to live with a half- brother in California from 2006~2010.  Applicant disclosed his illegal status when he applied for and was granted a Green Card.  He was again deployed back to Afghanistan in support  of  U.S.  forces,  and  while  there  applied  for  and  was  granted  U.S.  citizenship.  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  regarding  Afghanistan.  A  U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory remains in effect for Afghanistan. Extremist groups and kidnapping syndicates are actively targeting foreign nationals. Decades of disorder and warfare have made Afghanistan fertile territory for international terroism. 