Applicant admitted all four allegations in the SOR , with an explanation. I have incorporated his admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 29 years old. He and his wife were married in November 2014. They have a four-year-old son, and at the time of the hearing, were expecting another child. Applicant  has  attended  some  community  college,  and  has  some technical training.  He served as a helicopter mechanic in the United States Marine Corps Reserve  from April 2009 until March 2017. He served about two years on active duty, providing humanitarian post-disaster relief in Haiti in 2010, and was also on active duty until mid- 2012 for various training duties. He was discharged honorably as a sergeant .  After holding several other civilian jobs,  Applicant began working in the defense industry in late 2015. He was hired by his current employer in January 2017, in the field of aviation maintenance. Since July 2017, Applicant has worked in Afghanistan, a month at a time, followed by a month off at home.  Applicant commented at hearing that he loves working on helicopters and that it is the only job at which he excels. This is his first application for a security clearance. He earns an annual salary of about $125,000.  Applicant  began  drinking  at  age  18.  He  would  often  become  intoxicated  on weekends.  In June 2012, when he was 22 years old, Applicant was outside with friends after drinking at a bar and they were “being loud.” The police were called, and Applicant was “rude to the officer.” Applicant allegedly “blacked out” and was unable to recall  the  incident  the  next  day.  He  was  detained  and  cited  for  public  swearing  and intoxication, and was fined $25.   During 2 his  detention,  Applicant  was  screened  by  an  assessor  for  alcohol  and  mental  health issues. He was advised to stop drinking.  In November 2013, Applicant was driving home from a party when he was pulled over for speeding. He had consumed several drinks, and the officer smelled alcohol in the car. After a field sobriety test, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated    and speeding.  In  about  March  2014,  he  was found  guilty,  fined, and ordered  to  attend  Alcoholics  Anonymous    meetings  and  alcohol safety  awareness program    classes.  The  court  also  ordered  that  an  ignition  interlock  system  be installed in his car. His driver’s license was restricted for six months, and he was placed on two years of probation.   In October 2014, Applicant failed an ignition interlock test. He was charged with being  non-compliant  with  the  ASAP  program.  He  pleaded not  guilty,  asserting  that  the positive ignition test was caused by cologne. In February 2015, he was tried and found guilt.  He  was  fined  and  ordered  to  spend  two  days  in  jail.  He  was  also  referred  to  an alcohol program for an alcohol assessment and appropriate substance abuse treatment.   As he did during his court case, Applicant asserted during his hearing testimony that the ignition interlock results were caused by cologne. He said he had not been drinking at the time.  Applicant  entered  the  outpatient  alcohol  treatment  program  in  March  2015.  He asserted in his intake interview that he had not had any alcohol since November 2013. He  completed  a  substance  abuse  screening  assessment,  and  he  was  diagnosed  as suffering from alcohol dependence.  The diagnosis is not alleged in the SOR. Applicant  was  referred  to  a  16-week  substance-abuse  class.   Applicant signed an acknowledgement that he was to abstain from alcohol consumption during the treatment program.  He attended group counseling sessions through AA about twice a week.  In June 2015, while in the alcohol treatment group program, Applicant went to visit a friend in another state who was experiencing a mental health crisis. They went to a bar, and Applicant had three beers and a mixed drink over several hours. Applicant got into a fight, and punched another patron in the face. He was charged with public drunkenness and harassment, and fined.   Applicant did not disclose the incident  at his next  AA group counseling  session.  He said at hearing that he did not disclose the incident at the time because he had been embarrassed about it.  Applicant  was  discharged  successfully  from the  group  program  in August  2015.  He was to attend additional counseling sessions for recovering addicts at his family’s  church,  similar  to  an  AA  program.  Applicant  did  not  follow  through  with  those 3 sessions  because  he  was  concerned  about  the  program’s  confidentiality,  due  to  the program’s location. He has not participated in additional AA meetings since then.  Applicant has significantly curtailed his drinking. He said the last time he consumed any alcohol was on New Year’s Eve 2018, when he consumed one large beer at a party at his in-law’s house. He did not drive that evening.  Applicant has not sought an alcohol assessment from a medical provider to update his 2015 diagnosis of alcohol dependence. He has not had any offenses or arrests since June 2015.  Applicant disclosed his offenses on his SCA. He acknowledged his misconduct, but said he had stopped drinking and had dedicated himself to caring for his wife and son.  At hearing, Applicant acknowledged his wrongdoing and poor decision-making. He blamed  his  prior  actions  on  “young,  immature  stupidity.”  He  said  he  has  matured significantly since he has had the responsibility of raising a young family. He testified that he knows he has “too much to lose” by consuming alcohol again. He and his wife recently purchased  a  home,  and  he  was  recently  promoted  at  work,  in  a  job  that  requires  a clearance. Tr. 21-23-44, 71-77) Applicant keeps no alcohol in his house. The people he and his wife socializes with now are young parents. He no longer drinks at bars. When he is home from Afghanistan, Applicant works in his garage restoring a car, and manages child care for his son, since his  wife  works.    Alcohol  is  not  available  in  Afghanistan,  so  there  is  no opportunity for him to drink when he is working there.  Applicant’s  wife  wrote  a  supportive  reference  letter,  in  which  she  attests  to  her husband’s growth and maturity as a husband and father. He is hardworking, dependable, and  honest.  Applicant’s  supervisor to  his  maturity, professionalism,  and  integrity.  He  is  a  dedicated  professional,  and  is  entrusted  with releasing aircraft as “safe for flight,” a serious responsibility upon which lives depend. The supervisor wishes there could be “ten more just like him.” A personal friend attested to Applicant’s character as a husband, father, and proud veteran.  in  Afghanistan  attested 