Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $23,985 for 22 delinquent or past-due debts . Two of the allegations  addressed unpaid student loans totaling $4,222, and 17 of the allegations  addressed unpaid medical bills totaling $9,058. The largest single debt alleged  is for the $10,511 balance due, after resale, for an automobile that Applicant voluntarily surrendered for repossession. In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the allegations.  In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 41 years old and was offered a position with a defense contractor in October 2016. That job is contingent on eligibility for a security clearance and would pay her about $65,000 annually. This is Applicant’s first application for a security clearance. For most of the preceding seven years, Applicant was a stay-at-home mother. Over the past two-and-a-half years, she has been self-employed as the owner of a house cleaning service,  from  which  she  earns  between  $15,000  and  $25,000  annually.  Applicant  has been  married  twice,  most  recently  between  May  2010  and  August  2017,  when  she divorced  for  the  second  time.  Applicant’s  first  husband,  from  whom  Applicant  was separated for several years before a divorce was finalized in 2009, was in the military. She and her second husband separated in May 2016, and they have three children  together. Applicant also has an 18-year-old child from her first  marriage.  The  twins  live  with  Applicant’s  second husband  and  she pays  $296 each month in child support.  2 When  Applicant  and  her  second  husband  separated,  she  did  not  have  enough income from her house-cleaning business to make her car loan payments as required. The $10,511 debt alleged at SOR 1.a arose after she called the dealer and surrendered the car for repossession. Applicant presented information after the hearing showing she repaid that debt between July and November 2018.  The  debts  alleged  at  SOR  1.b  and  1.c  are  for  unpaid  student  loans  Applicant obtained  in  2008.  She  did  not  finish  the  degree  or  certification  program  for  which  she obtained  the  loans.  It  appears  she  was  able  to  make  her  required  payments  until December 2016, seven months after she and her second husband separated. Applicant testified  she  is  now  in  the  process  of  establishing  an  income-based  student  loan rehabilitation  and  repayment  plan.  Although  she  did  not  support  her  claims  with  any corroborating information, I found her testimony credible.  The  medical  debts  alleged  at  SOR  1.d  and  1.g  –  1.v  arose  when  the  service providers billed the wrong insurance company. Most of the medical care underlying those debts was related to the birth of her twins in 2011, as well as more recent treatment of Applicant’s  strep  throat.  Applicant  avers  the  hospital  should  have  billed  her  current husband’s insurance, but billed her first husband’s military insurance instead. Applicant was  able  to  correct  the  error after  about  two  years; however,  at  that  point  her  second husband’s insurance would not cover her claims. The debts at issue are less than seven years old, yet the most recent credit reporting information in the record reflects only the debt alleged at SOR 1.d.  The  debts  at  SOR  1.e  and  1.f  are  for  unpaid  cable  television  and/or  internet accounts.  Applicant  claimed  she  has  paid  both  debts,  but  she  did  not  provide  any documentation of those payments.  Applicant’s prospective supervisor testified on her behalf at the hearing. He  has known  Applicant  personally  and  professionally  for  about  15  years.  At  the  end  of Applicant’s first marriage, she had worked in a non-defense industry position similar to that for which she currently is being considered. The witness knew Applicant at that time and considers her a good fit for defense contractor employment. He characterized her as hard working, trustworthy, and honest.  Applicant’s current finances are sound. She has not incurred any new debts that she is unable to pay, and she meets all of her regular monthly obligations as required.  Each  security  clearance  decision  must  be  a  fair,  impartial,  and  commonsense determination  based  on  examination  of  all  available  relevant  and  material  information, 