Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant  failed  to  timely  file  her federal income tax returns for the tax years 2012 through 2016  and her state income tax returns for the tax years 2014 through 2016 . It was further alleged that Applicant owed a total of $35,117 in past-due federal income taxes for tax years 2015 through 2017 , and that she owed $11,271 in past-due income taxes to State A  and $6,941 in past-due income taxes to State B . Finally, the Government  alleged  that  Applicant  owed  two  unpaid  medical  debts   totaling $481, and $139 for an unpaid music store account . In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  each  allegation  and  provided extensive  information  about  related  financial  and  personal  circumstances,  as  well  as information about actions to correct her financial problems.  In addition to the facts thus established, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant  is  46  years  old.  Since  February  2017,  she  has  worked  as  a  technical writer  for  a  defense  contractor.  In  May  2000,  Applicant  graduated  from  college  with  a degree in mathematics. While in college, she amassed an impressive academic record that  led  to  an  internship  with  a  large  information  technology  company.  She  also  is  a member of a prestigious engineering society. After graduating, she worked until 2004 for another large technology firm, but none of her work was related to the defense industry. This is her first request for a security clearance.  1 Required by Executive Order 10865, as amended, and by DOD Directive 5220.6 , as amended. 2 Tr. 22 – 31. 2 Applicant and her husband, a software engineer, have been married since March 2003. They have two children, now ages 12 and 14. In 2004, when their older child was born, Applicant left the workforce to raise their children as a stay-at-home mother. Aside from a brief foray into self-employment in a childcare-related business, Applicant did not earn income between 2004 and 2017, and self-employment did not result in reportable income.  Applicant and her husband lived in State A until March 2016. They still own the house they lived in there, and they have been trying unsuccessfully to sell it since moving to State B. The housing market where they lived in State B is still depressed. They moved to  State  B  after  Applicant’s  husband,  who  had  been  unemployed  since  October  2015, found work in State B.  While Applicant was raising their children, she relied on her husband to manage their finances. This included filing and paying their state and federal income taxes. Their finances  began  to  suffer  after  he  lost  his  job  in  2015.  Additionally,  they  had  been  the primary caregiver for Applicant’s mother after she was diagnosed with a terminal illness in 2007 until her death in 2012. Not only did this result in additional medical and other expenses,  it  disrupted  and  stressed  their  home  life.  Also,  in  2011,  the  mortgage  for Applicant’s  house  in  State  A  increased  unexpectedly.  Applicant  and  her  husband obtained a mortgage modification the following year after struggling to make their new payments. Their mortgage is again in good standing. Through a combination of household stress over their debts and lack of income, and an erroneous assumption that they did not have to file income tax returns when they were not bringing in any income, Applicant’s husband did not file their federal income tax returns as alleged in SOR 1.a or their state income tax returns as alleged in SOR 1.e. Applicant’s husband submitted a letter attesting to his failure to file their returns as required. As it turns out, they were correct as to their State A returns for 2016, because they spent most of that tax year in State B.  In  her  e-QIP,  Applicant  disclosed  in  great  detail  her  tax  and  other  financial difficulties. Shortly thereafter, she began the process of filing her past-due returns and paying her taxes and other debts. To date, Applicant has paid the debts at SOR 1.h – 1.j. She also has filed all of her tax returns. Available information shows she has established a  repayment  plan for her federal  taxes,  through  which  she  has  paid  $300  each month since August 2018. As for her state taxes, her State A debt has been reduced by about 40  percent  from  $11,271  to  $6,683.  She  also  has  established,  and  is  adhering  to  a repayment plan for her State B taxes that will resolve that debt by 2021.  Applicant  took  over  management  of  the  household  finances  in  early  2017.  In addition to her efforts to file past-due tax returns and repay their taxes, she obtained from her  husband  a  limited  power  of  attorney  in  order  to  access  his  tax  records  and  other financial  information;  she  sought  assistance  from  a  financial  counseling  firm;  and  she used the services of a certified public accountant in resolving their tax status. Currently, 3 Applicant and her husband are sound financially. They have been able to stay current on their State A mortgage while paying the debts listed in the SOR. They currently earn about $180,000  annually  combined. Their  cash on  hand  each  month  after  paying  their  debts and other regular obligations is sufficient to guard against unexpected events.  