Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor. GX 1 at page 5.) He has  been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  August  of  2014.    He  is  married  to  a  U.S.  citizen.    Applicant  was  born  in Dubai, lived in Pakistan when he “was 11 or 10” years old,” and has not visited Pakistan since then, and moved to the United States in 2003 as a twenty-year-old.  He is well respected in the workplace, as attested to by his “Site . . . Manager.”  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  Applicant’s  66-year-old  mother  is  a  citizen  of  Pakistan,  but  has  lived  in  the United States since 2016.   She  works  for  a  U.S.  corporation,  and  is unaware that Applicant is applying for a security clearance.  1.b. Applicant’s 40-year-old sister is a dual-citizen of Pakistan and Canada, and has lived in Canada since 2012.   Like  her mother,  she  is unaware that Applicant is applying for a security clearance.  Guideline J: Criminal Conduct 2.a. and 2.b. In July of 2006, and again in September of 2006, more than twelve years ago, Applicant was involved domestic disputes with his newly-married wife.  As a result of  both  incidents  he  was  charged,  but  the  charges  were  subsequently  dismissed.   He  has  attended  anger  management  classes,  and  they  both  have  attended  “marriage conferences.”  They have been happily married “for over 12 years,” as 2 attested to by Applicant’s wife.  She avers that they “are devoted to one another and . . . are committed to make this marriage last.”  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  the following  facts  regarding  the  Islamic Republic of Pakistan. Pakistan is a federal republic, but the U.S. Department of State warns U.S. citizens  not  to  travel  to  Pakistan  due  to  terrorism.  Pakistan  has  suffered  numerous terrorist attacks. Pakistan has recently also had significant human rights issues. 