Applicant  is  58  years  old.  He  graduated from  high  school  in 1978  and obtained his  associate’s  degree  in  aeronautics  in  1983.  Applicant  has  been  employed  in  the aviation field in some capacity since age 12.  He reports no military service. He married  in  1990  and  divorced  in  1998  with  no  children.  Applicant  taught  himself computer coding and he started software companies in the 1980s.  His company employed  85  people and had  $45 million  in annual  sales  when  Applicant  was  age  29.  Applicant moved south to a different state in 2016 to get away from a gritty and deleterious lifestyle and start a job with a major federal contractor.  Applicant  admits  he  was  arrested  in  February  2008  and  charged  with possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  and  driving  while  impaired.    Applicant testified that he sustained a devastating leg injury in 2003 and he was unable to work through  2008.    He  had  invested  his  life  savings  in  his  small business. Since he had no insurance, he lost everything.  He was attempting to rebuild  his  business  and  facilitate  investors,  when  he  went  out  with  an  associate  who used drugs.  They had a beer together and then the associate drove them to a house party where the associate and others used cocaine. Applicant testified credibly he  did  not  use  cocaine  that  evening;  although  he  did  use  it  previously  following  his injury.   He wanted to leave the party.   His associate said “take my keys” and  Applicant  drove  away.  He  was  stopped  by  police  and  admitted  to  having  a  beer. The vehicle owner’s girlfriend left her coat in the back seat. When Applicant authorized a  search  of  the  vehicle,  police  found  cocaine  and  drug  paraphernalia  in  the  coat.  He was arrested. He no longer associates with the vehicle owner or the coat owner. Although  the  driving  while  impaired  charge  was  dismissed,  Applicant  was convicted  of  possession  of  a  controlled  substance    and sentenced  to  three  years’  probation,  court  costs,  and  a  fine.    In  section  22  of his Questionnaire for National Security Positions  or security clearance  application  ,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  served  four  months  in  jail  in July  2011  for  a  probation  violation.  He  testified  credibly  that  he  was  at  the  end  of  his court-ordered  probation  for  the  July  2008  conviction  above,  when  he  informed  his 1 Unless stated otherwise, the source of the information in this section is Applicant’s May 3, 2016 Security Clearance Application  , or his personal subject interview  on October 4, 2017.  2 probation officer that he needed to travel to an upstate location.  She responded that he should just check in with her when he returned.  When Applicant spent more time upstate than he intended, he realized he was going to be late returning.  He called to advise the probation officer of this delay. She nonetheless reported the tardiness  violation  by  Applicant,  causing  him  to  have  to  serve  out  his  sentence  in  jail.  His mother died while he was in jail.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was  stopped  by  police  in  July  2008  and  charged  with unlicensed  operation  of  a  vehicle,  running  a  red  light,  and  driving  an  unregistered vehicle.  SOR  ¶  1.b  was  amended  at  the  outset  of  the  hearing  to  reflect  that  he  was “stopped” by police and not “arrested.”  Applicant admits to the allegation as amended. He received a citation and failed to appear in court. He has paid all fees and fines associated with that traffic stop, and the warrant that issued  has  been  rescinded  in  September  2018.    Applicant  states  that  2008 was a bad year and he struggled with depression as a result of his crippling injury and loss of his business.  He later treated with a clinical master social worker in 2016.  The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  also  arrested  for  driving  while  impaired  in March 1999.  He admits to this offense twenty years ago, and he pled  guilty  and  paid  all  fines  and  court  costs  associated  with  it.    He  also admits  that  he  was  arrested  in  April  2017  for  DWI  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  Applicant testified that he was very ill and suffering from bronchitis and allergies at the time.     He  was  prescribed  medication  by  his  physician,  and  he  took  a  steroid,  antibiotic, and cough medicine, prior to the arrest.  He was pulled over by police who said Applicant had swerved erratically while driving to a convenience mart at 2:00 a.m. to get throat lozenges.  Applicant testified he was having a coughing fit. When he was pulled over, he was unsteady on his feet due to the devastating injury.  He  took  a  breathalyzer  that  registered  zero  blood-alcohol  content.    He  was found  guilty  of  failure  to  use  due  care  while  driving  since  he  was  operating  under  the influence of cough medicine.  Applicant paid a $1,500 dollar fine.  Applicant  last  used  illegal  drugs  in  2008.    He  drinks  only  on  rare occasions.    Applicant  presented  testimony  from  his  supervisor  of  the  fleet ballistic missile section of a federal contractor.  He spoke to Applicant’s superb work ethic and character, and testified that Applicant is honest, trustworthy, and reliable.   The  witness  wrote  Applicant’s  excellent  performance  evaluation.   Applicant  also  provided  a  favorable  character  reference  letter  and  a  letter  from  his previous attorney attesting to the fact that he resolved all outstanding traffic violations in state A and all fines were paid in 2015.  Applicant admitted the cross-alleged violations  under  Guidelines  E  and  G,  at  SOR  ¶¶  2  and  3,  and  provides  the  same explanations as above. 3 