Applicant  is  56  years  old.  He  married  in  1994  and  divorced  in  2011.   Applicant was married previously from 1985 to 1990, and he has two adult children from that  marriage.  He  has  been  cohabitating  for  two  years  with  a  Chinese  national,  who recently  applied  for  citizenship  in  the  United  States.    She  has  a  green  card. Applicant reported some college but no degree.  He served honorably in  the U.S. Navy from 1983 to 2004 and attained the rank of Chief Warrant Officer-3 . He had an explosive  ordnance disposal specialty rating and earned numerous awards including three Meritorious Service Medals, several Naval Commendation Medals, and Naval  Achievement  Medals.  Applicant  held  security  clearances  for  most  of  his  career, without incident. He previously worked as a security specialist  for Department of Homeland Security  from 2005 to 2010, and he is now employed by a federal contractor helping to stand up the weapons of mass destruction office for DHS. The SOR alleges delinquent debts totaling $28,537 plus a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition filed  in  2014  that  was  dismissed  three months  later. The Amended  SOR  adds an  allegation  of  an  arrearage  to  a  state  division  of  child  support  in  the  approximate amount  of  $9,278.  However,  Applicant  denies  that  alleged  arrearage    and there is no credible evidence to establish it. His ex-wife furnished an affidavit stating that Applicant  has  timely  paid  all  child  support  directly  to  her  as  required  by  the  divorced decree.  No  state  agency  was  ever  involved.    The  Amended  SOR  also  added  a Guideline  B,  foreign  influence,  allegation  at  ¶  2.a.  Applicant  admitted  most  of  the allegations  in  his  Answer  to  the  SOR  and  attached  documents  demonstrating  that  he has either resolved, or is in the process of resolving, all but two of the alleged debts. 1  Unless  stated  otherwise,  the  source  of  the  information  in  this  section  is  Applicant’s  October  7,  2016, security clearance application  . 4 Applicant  testified  credibly  that  he  traveled  extensively  for  his  job  at  DHS  and relied on his wife to pay their bills and handle the finances.  When they started having marital difficulties, he obtained his credit report in 2009, and realized that he did not recognize many of the delinquent debts reflected.  He requested validation of  the  debts  in  accordance  with  the  Fair  Debt  Collection  Practices  Act    and attempted  to  settle  them  at  a  compromised  amount,  to  no  avail.    It  was apparent  that  his  ex-wife  misused  a  general  power  or  attorney,  which  Applicant provided to her in his absence, and she ran up exorbitant credit-card debts.  He procured  the  services  of  a  credit-repair  agency,  which  was  unhelpful.  His  divorce became final in 2011. Applicant submitted a matrix at his hearing that reflects settlement, or a payment plan,  for  all  but  two  of  the  alleged  debts  in  the  SOR.    He  also  provided documentary  substantiation  in  support  of  the  matrix.  SOR  ¶  1.a,  a  charged-off  debt  in the  amount  of  $17,971,  was  settled  for  $5,391  on  December  18,  2018.   SOR ¶ 1.b was a past-due debt to a bank in the amount of $1,161. Originally, Applicant was informed that he was unable to pay on this joint account because his ex-wife had included it in her Chapter 7 bankruptcy filing in 2013.  That bankruptcy made it  extremely  difficult  for  Applicant  to  access  the  websites  of  creditors  or  negotiate settlements. The past-due amount of $1,154 was paid via check on February 24, 2019.  The account is now current.  All of their accounts were held jointly due to the hazardous nature of Applicant’s job.  In  July  2018,  before  the  SOR  was  issued,  Applicant  hired  a  second,  more reputable,  credit-counseling  agency.    He  did  not  know  what  some  of  the delinquencies  were for,  or  whether  they had been  included  in his  ex-wife’s bankruptcy case.  SOR  ¶  1.c  was  a  debt  placed  for  collection  by  a  university  in  the  amount  of $4,327.  Applicant  made  eight  payments  of  $100  from  February  2018  through  October 2018 and the university pulled the delinquency back from its collection agency in 2019. It  agreed  to  accept  three  payments  of  $2,300  over  90  days  to  settle  it.  Applicant provided documentary evidence that he has made several payments in accordance with that agreement.  SOR  ¶  1.d  was  a  charged-off  debt  by  a  federal  credit  union  in  the  amount  of $3,839. The account was settled via payment in the amount of $1,344 on December 18, 2018, and the balance is now zero.  SOR ¶ 1.e was a medical bill placed for collection in the amount of $121. It resulted from an insurance dispute after Applicant was  hit  by  a  drunk,  uninsured,  driver,  while  Applicant  was  operating  a  rental  car. Applicant  testified  credibly  that  his  credit-counseling  agency,  and  lawyers,  made repeated  efforts  to  contact  the  creditor  and  it  was  unable  to  locate  any  account  for Applicant. Applicant logically believes it  was paid by the insurance company or should have  been.    Applicant  tried  to file  a  Chapter  7 bankruptcy  petition pro  se  in September  2014.  It  was  dismissed  in  December  2014,  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.e, because he missed a meeting and was unsure how to proceed with the process.  He attempted to resolve the delinquencies run up by his ex-wife on his own. 5 SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $674.  Applicant’s credit-counseling agency and law firm contacted the creditor and were unable to obtain any  account  information.  I  trust  that  it  no  longer  exists.  Applicant  used  his  GI  bill education  benefits  at  an  out-of-state  institution.  While  he  was  away,  he  left  virtually everything  that  he  owned,  including  guitars,  amplifiers,  bikes  and  shadow  boxes  – Medals etc. in a storage facility. He fell behind on payments to the storage company, as a  struggling  student  enduring  a  divorce,  and  he  received  notice  that  his  belongings would  be  sold  at  auction  due  to  a  past-due  amount  of  $444.    He  could  not attend the  auction.  He  settled this debt alleged at SOR ¶  1.h for $200  on  January  25, 2019,  despite  that  the  company  auctioned  off  his  property,  which  had  a  value  greatly exceeding the $444 owed. Applicant’s  Chinese  cohabitant  came  to  the  U.S.  in  2009  with  her  deceased husband  who  was  a  U.S.  citizen.    She  took  an  exam  for  U.S.  citizenship  in February  2019.    They  met  on  the  match.com  dating  website  in  2015.   She works as a massage therapist.  Applicant testified that she never had any affiliation  with  the  Chinese  government  or  intelligence  services.  She  contacts  her parents in China using the “we-chat” application a few times each week. Applicant has never met her parents or siblings, and they do not speak English.   She visits her family in China once each year and stays for a month.  Applicant professes his love for his cohabitant.  Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  his  impressive  resume  and  two  positive  character reference  letters  attesting  to  his  integrity,  trustworthiness,  and  reliability.  He  had financial  counseling  first  in  2009  with  a  credit-repair  company,  and  again  in  2014.  He has acquired no recent delinquent debts, and his financial situation is stable. 