Applicant is 40 years old. He was born to a Kurdish family in Turkey and came to the  United  States    in  1998  to  attend  college.  He  was  naturalized  as  a  citizen  in September  2001.    He  obtained  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2005,  and  a  master’s 1 Unless otherwise stated, the basis for these findings of fact is Applicant’s Security Clearance Application  dated October 7, 2016  and Applicant’s answers to interrogatories verifying the summary of a personal subject interview conducted on November 22, 2016.  2 degree in 2008.  Applicant was married in August 2017 to a U.S. citizen who is a special needs teacher.  They have a one year old daughter.  He has  applied for  a job as  a  linguist  for  a federal  contractor  attached  to  armed forces  of the  U.S.  overseas,  and  he  needs  a  security  clearance.  Applicant’s  elderly  parents  still live in Turkey. He also has a sister and two brothers living in Turkey with their families.  None of Applicant’s family members were ever affiliated with, or worked for, the Turkish government and they are not political.  Applicant presented testimony from his supervisor who was also simultaneously serving as a military reservist. The witness testified that he was a master sergeant in the U.S.  Army  reserve  with  17  years  of  active  duty.  He  hired  Applicant  and  directly supervised him on the job as a federal contractor.  He testified that Kurds are commonly persecuted in Turkey, and they are in disfavor. He testified that Applicant is honest,  reliable,  and  loyal  to  the  U.S.  He  would  have  no  hesitation  recommending Applicant for a security clearance. Applicant testified that his Turkish passport expired in 2014 and he affirmatively renounced his Turkish citizenship in 2018 through the Turkish Embassy in the U.S.   He  currently  works  for  one  federal  contractor,  but  he  is  sponsored  for  a security  clearance  by  another  contractor  to  be  a  linguist.    He  testified  credibly that Kurds are not allowed to keep their own names in Turkey and there is widespread prejudice  against  them.    He  has  no  real  estate  interests,  bank  accounts,  or other financial interests in Turkey.  He has no plan to live in Turkey again.   He  has  never  been  approached  by  government  –  intelligence  services  during  his visits to Turkey.  Applicant was married previously from 2002 to 2009, and he came to the U.S. on a  student  visa,  sponsored  by  his  first  wife.  She  was  a  U.S.  citizen.    He  has  a U.S.  passport,  which  is  set  to  expire  in  April  2019.  He  has  applied  for  renewal  of  that passport.    He  traveled  to  Turkey  to  visit  his  parents  from  May  to  June  of 2012; May to June 2013; and his last trip to Turkey was in May 2015 for one month.   He  used  the  Turkish  passport  until  it  expired  in  2014,  but  he  always  used  the U.S.  passport  to  enter  the  U.S.  He  speaks  Kurdish,  Turkish,  Italian,  and  French.  He contacts his 73-year old mother by Skype about once a week, and his  father  occasionally.    His  two  brothers  are  in  the  cleaning  business.  He contacts  them,  and  his  sister,  about  once  every  three  months.    He  does  not stand to inherit anything from his parents.  Applicant submitted a security clearance application  on October 7, 2016.2 In  section  19    of  his  SCA,  he  disclosed  his  foreign  family  members living in Turkey. In section 20B  he disclosed that he was involved as president of the People’s Democratic Union  political party from January 2016 to July  2016.  He  explained  that  it  was  the  third  largest  political  party  in  Turkey.  He accepted  the  unpaid  position  to  bolster  his  resume  with  volunteer  experience.3  He 2 GE 1. 3 GE 1, p. 63. 3 majored  in  political  science  in  college.  He  was  contacted  by  a  citizen  of  Denmark  to operate  this  organization  because  that  individual  needed  Applicant’s  social  security number  to  set  up  the  non-profit  organization.    His  duties  were  primarily administrative. The stated goals of this non-profit organization were to promote human rights  and  it  was  generally  opposed  to  the  Turkish  government.    Applicant testified  that  its  values  are  closely  aligned  with  the  U.S.  Government’s  interests.  He accepted no money for the organization or on its behalf.  Applicant  testified  credibly  that  he  voted  one  time  in  a  Turkish  election  via  the Turkish embassy  in  the  U.S.  in  2015  after  he  became  a  U.S.  citizen.   He  still maintained  his  Turkish  citizenship  at  that  point.  Essentially,  he  voted  because  he disagreed with the incumbent Turkish government’s human-rights abuses and policies. He  now  votes  in  U.S.  elections.  His  parents  are  retired  professionals  and  were  never involved  with  the  Turkish  Government  or  politics.  His  family  members  believe  that Applicant  is  in  the  information  technology  industry,  and  he  does  not  discuss  his  work with them.  He  owns  automobiles,  but  no  real estate,  in the  U.S.  where he has  lived  for  22 years. He maintains modest savings accounts and a 401 retirement plan in the U.S.   Applicant  attached  seven  favorable  character-reference  letters  to  his  Answer. He also attached a letter to the Turkish embassy in the U.S. verifying that he renounced his citizenship and was no longer a Turkish citizen effective March 15, 2018.  He provided  three  additional  character  references  at  his  hearing.    He  also provided a letter from the dean of his university stating that Applicant was on the dean’s list for one semester , plus copies of his college transcript and diplomas from his undergraduate and master’s degrees.  