Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 33-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He has been employed with the defense contractor since 2016.  Applicant is married to a Ukrainian citizen, Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  As  noted  above,  Applicant  is  married  to  a  Ukrainian  national,  who  resides with him in South Korea.  She is in the process of becoming a  U.S.  citizen.    Applicant’s  wife  is  not employed in South Korea.  1.b. Applicant’s mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of Ukraine.  He has little contact with her, as he does not speak Ukrainian.  1.c.  Applicant’s sister-in-law is a citizen and resident of Ukraine.  He does not know what she does “for a living.”  Applicant only speaks to her through his wife’s “Skypes” about twice a year.  1.d.  Applicant’s mother is a citizen and resident of South Korea.   “She  has  [an]  American  Green  Card.”    Applicant’s  mother  “runs  the Katusa [Korean Augmentation of the U.S. Army] at the K16 [U.S. Army] Air Base.”   1.e. Applicant’s father is a U.S. citizen, and resides in South Korea.  He is retired from the U.S. Army, and works for the U.S. Army.  1.f.  Applicant’s  sister  is  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  resides  with  their  parents  in  South Korea.  2 Guideline C - Foreign Preference 2.a.  Applicant  possesses  a  Republic  of  Korea  Alien  Registration  Card.   It  is “difficult  as an  American  to  gain access  to  certain  services,”  such  as  the  “internet,”  and  “paying  utilities,”  without  said card.  Notice I  take  administrative  notice  of  certain  facts  regarding  South  Korea. Its government  espionage  and  collection  activities  have  resulted in  U.S.  criminal prosecutions. Industrial espionage also remains a high-profile concern relating to South Korean companies. I take administrative notice of certain facts regarding Ukraine It is a republic with a  semi-presidential  political  system.  In  2014,  Russian  forces  entered  and  occupied Ukraine’s  Crimean  Peninsula.  There  are  significant  human  rights  issues  in  parts  of Ukraine under Russian occupation. 