Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.f. He denied SOR ¶ 1.a, with an explanation. I incorporate his admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 43 years old. He was married from 1999 to 2005. He and his first wife had two children, a son  and a daughter .  Applicant remarried in 2009. They divorced in  late 2017. His second wife has two children, by a prior relationship.  Applicant served honorably in the United States Navy from 1993 to 2001. Since then, he has worked for his current employer, a large defense contractor. He works as a security analyst and facility security officer and has a $93,000 annual salary. He has held a clearance for about 25 years.  The debts alleged in the SOR are a foreclosed mortgage, two charged-off student loans, two past-due medical debts, and a cable bill. Applicant listed several of them on his  SCA.  They  are  detailed  on  credit  reports  in  the  record.  .  He discussed his debts in background interviews in December 2016 and November 2017.  1 Applicant’s first post-hearing document was a complete copy of the property settlement from his divorce, an excerpt of which was admitted at hearing as AE A. I incorporated the full document in AE A. 2 AE F is Applicant’s 2018 performance appraisal. AE G through AE L are labelled as Applicant described them in his March 4, 2019 e-mail. AE M and AE N relate to Applicant’s student loan debts. 2 Applicant explained that the delinquent debts were due to his wife’s job loss and her student loans, and his own four-year decline in income due to increases in taxes.  Applicant’s financial problems began in 2009, when his wife lost her job at a large retailer. He also asserted that they fell behind due to his wife’s overspending.  Applicant  pursued  financial  counseling through  his  employer’s  Employee Assistance Program . He said he was told to come up with a reasonable budget and to stick to it. Applicant was not able to do that.  In 2008, before he remarried, Applicant purchased a home. His mother co-signed the  loan.  Applicant  and  his  wife  became  jointly  responsible  for  the  $1,800  monthly mortgage payments when they married, in 2009. They fell behind in about April 2015. He was  making  about  $80,000 annually  at the  time.   They  attempted  to modify their home loan, but were unsuccessful, and the home was foreclosed in December 2016.   AE D is an IRS Form 1099-A for the property for the 2016 tax year. AE D lists the mortgage owed as about $190,000, and the fair market value of the property as about $155,000, leaving a deficiency balance of about $35,000. The property agreement shows Applicant is responsible for the deficiency balance. .3 Applicant’s mother was issued an IRS Form 1099-A for the property for the 2016 tax  year  confirming  the  amounts.    AE  D  lists  Applicant’s  mother  as  the  debtor, though AE D was mailed to Applicant at his address in State 1. He testified that a Form 1099-A was also mailed to him, but was erroneously mailed to his mother’s address, in another state. He said the document has been lost, in part because his mother is elderly, frail, and has cognitive difficulties.  At the time of the hearing, the home had  yet  to  be  sold  at  auction  by  the  bank,  so  the  total  amount  Applicant  owes  on  the deficiency balance, if anything, is unclear.  In January 2019, Applicant attempted to procure a private loan to pay his debts, but was denied because he did not have sufficient good credit.  He then enrolled in a credit repair service to clean up potentially inaccurate or invalid accounts in his credit record.  It was pointed out to him at hearing, however, that this would do little good, since he had admitted most of the debts in the SOR, thereby validating them.  SOR ¶ 1.b  and ¶ 1.c  are two charged-off student loans, both in his wife’s name, though he was a co-signer. His wife stopped making payments on them in about 2014. The property settlement agreement shows that he is responsible for them. 3 Applicant also noted that, on the advice of his divorce counsel, he assumed the payments for his former wife’s car to keep it from being repossessed.  3 . The debts have both been settled and paid.  SOR ¶ 1.d  is a past-due medical debt. It has now been paid.  SOR ¶ 1.e  is a past-due cable debt. It has now been paid.  SOR ¶ 1.f  is a past-due medical debt. Applicant attempted to pay it but was unsuccessful.  Applicant now lives with his girlfriend. She owns the home but he contributes to the household expenses. He pays $500 a month in child support for his minor child from his  first  marriage,  and  is  current.  Tr.  48-49)  He  pays  $45  a  month  to  the  credit  repair company, but can terminate the agreement at any time. . His finances have stabilized since his divorce.  As  an  FSO,  Applicant  is  professionally  aware  that  financial  problems  and delinquent debt can give rise to a security concern.  As the FSO for a large defense contractor,  Applicant  dictates  security  protocol  for  the  company’s  several  thousand employees  and  visitors.  He  ensures  compliance  with  the  National  Industrial  Security Program Operating Manual , including matters of personnel security.  Applicant is highly regarded at work. In December 2017, his company was given a “superior” security rating by the Defense Security Service in a security assessment in which, as the FSO, Applicant played a key role.  He has earned excellent performance ratings.  Applicant’s supervisor testified. The witness is responsible for security compliance, and is several levels above Applicant in seniority. Applicant has worked with or for the witness for several years, in various capacities. The witness regards Applicant as loyal, trustworthy, and someone who properly protects classified information. Tr. 82-88) 