Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR    with  explanations.  After  a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   She has been employed with the defense contractor since June of 2017.  She is twice divorced, and has five children.  She attributes the alleged financial difficulties to her failed marriages. Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.~1.d. Applicant has past-due debts to health providers in an amount totaling about  $15,152.  Applicant  is  addressing  these  debts  through  a  debt-consolidation service,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  that  service.   These allegations are found for Applicant. 1.e.  Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor E in the amount of about $6,295. Applicant has settled this debt for $1,098; and is making monthly payments towards this settlement,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  Creditor  E.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.f.  Applicant  has  a  past-due debt  to  Creditor F in  the amount  of about  $1,037. Applicant  is  addressing  this  debt  through  the  before-mentioned  debt-consolidation service,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  that  service.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.g.  Applicant  has  paid  the  $179  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  G,  as  evidenced  by Creditor G’s successor creditor.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.h. Applicant has a past-due debt to Creditor H in the amount of about $1,960. Applicant is also addressing this debt through the before-mentioned debt-consolidation service,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  that  service.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.i.  Applicant  has  paid  the  $52  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  I,  as  evidenced  by documentation from Creditor I.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.j.  Applicant  has  made  a  good-faith  effort  to  address  this  charged-off  debt  for $838.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 2 1.k. Applicant has paid the $6,701 past-due debt to Creditor K, as the result of an automobile  repossession,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  referencing  Creditor  K.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.l.  Applicant  has  made  a  good-faith  effort  to  address  this  charged-off  debt  for $815.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.m. Applicant has paid the $296 past-due debt to Creditor M, as evidenced by documentation from Creditor M.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.n.  Applicant  has  paid  the  $96  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  N,  as  evidenced  by documentation from Creditor N.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 