Applicant  is  39  years  old.  He  received  an  associate’s  degree  in  2013  and  a bachelor’s  degree  in  2016.  He  expects  to  receive  a  master’s  degree  in  business administration in December 2020. He was married to his first wife from 2006 until they divorced  in  2008.  Applicant  married  his  second  wife  in  2010,  and  she  has  an  adult daughter.  He  has  two  minor  children  with  women  with  whom  he  was  not  married.  He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from 2010 until 2014 when he was medically retired and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  Applicant  currently  works  for  his  brother’s  truck company and as a carpenter.  While Applicant was serving on active duty in the U.S. Army, he injured his back and refused to make airborne jumps. His command believed he was malingering, and as a result, he received nonjudicial punishment three times, was reduced in rank from an E- 4  to  an  E-1,  and  experienced  the  subsequent  pay  losses.  Applicant’s  interim  secret security clearance was also denied in 2013 due to his financial issues. Most of the debts alleged in the SOR became delinquent while he was on active duty.  As noted above, Applicant was medically retired from the U.S. Army in 2014, and was not in fact malingering.  He was originally granted an 80% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs , but in May 2018, his rating was reduced to 50%. Applicant appealed this change and was recently awarded a 100% disability rating.  After he was discharged from the U.S. Army in 2014, Applicant had a difficult time finding gainful employment, which negatively impacted his finances. He chose to go back to school due to these issues.  Applicant  and  his  current  wife  have  been  living  separately  since  approximately December 2016. He still provides his wife some financial support, but he has been living with his mother. At the hearing, he testified that he financially supported his wife’s family while he served on active duty which contributed to his financial issues. He also believes his  wife  and  her  sister  have  opened  accounts  in  his  name  without  his  consent  and knowledge. As a result, Applicant uses a company to monitor his credit history.  In March 2019, Applicant was in a car accident, which has negatively impacted his finances this year.  Starting in 2016, Applicant has attended extensive credit counseling to resolve his debts, and he continues to attend classes. In conjunction with these classes, Applicant has made considerable and diligent efforts to resolve his delinquent debts and to improve his finances.  Applicant did not sign the purchase agreement for the vehicle loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. With the assistance of an Army attorney, Applicant disputed this debt while he was on active duty, and it was removed from his credit report.  2 Applicant used the loan alleged SOR ¶ 1.b to purchase  a vehicle for his wife in May 2016. She failed to make the payments as she promised, which is one of the reasons why they separated in December 2016. Applicant testified that he has been in contact with the lender and intends to settle the debt.  Applicant  paid,  settled,  and  resolved  the following  SOR  allegations:  ¶¶  1.c,  1.d, 1.g, 1.h, 1.j, 1.l, 1.n, 1.p, 1.r, 1.s. He paid and resolved most of these debts before the SOR was issued.  Applicant disputed the following SOR allegations, as they are not his debts: ¶¶ 1.f, 1.i, 1.k, 1.m, and they have been removed from his most recent CBR.  SOR ¶ 1.e is an open account, and it is current.  Applicant  has  attempted  to  settle  SOR  ¶¶  1.o  and  1.q,  but  these  accounts  and SOR  ¶¶  1.t,  1.u,  are  outside  of  the  statute  of  limitations  and  negotiations  have  been difficult.  Applicant’s current finances are in good standing, and his state and federal taxes are  current.  His  $350  and  $250  monthly  child  support  payments  are  current,  and  he follows a written budget.  Applicant  received  the  following  awards  and  decorations  related  to  his  military service:  Army  Good  Conduct  Medal;  National  Defense  Service  Medal;  Global  War  on Terrorism  Service  Medal;  and  Army  Service  Ribbon.  Applicant  also  provided  several letters of recommendation recognizing that he is  responsible, reliable, and trustworthy.  