Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer since 2015. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has held  for  about  ten  years.  He  is  married  with  four  children.    at  51-54; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2) Applicant  attended  a  religious  college  from  about  2000  to  2005.  He  received  a diploma in general studies. He worked as a manager for a large company from 2000 to 2004.  The  company  had  education  programs  for  their  managers  that  had  been developed by  two  prestigious  universities.  The  programs  utilized  the  students’  existing education,  employment,  and  life  experience,  and  developed  a  curriculum  that  would assist  them  in  their  progression  in  the  company.  The  program  from  one  university   provided  the  student-employees  with  the  educational  equivalent  of  a bachelor’s degree, and the other university’s  program did the same for a master’s degree.  Applicant  completed  the  first  program  in  2002  and  the  second  in  2003.  He received  certificates,  but  no  actual  diploma  or  degree.  He  attended  another  religious college from 2005 to 2007. He received a master’s degree in 2006 and three doctorates in 2006 and 2007. He is currently attending graduate courses online.  Applicant  worked  in  information  technology  for  a  company  in  May  2010.  There were ongoing problems with a delivery company leaving packages without receiving the required signatures. The delivery company dropped off a package with seven software discs  in  May  2015,  without  obtaining  a  signature.  The  value  of  the  seven  discs  was $962. Applicant opened the package in front of another employee and installed one of the discs in a company laptop. He stated that the delivery person scribbled a name on the receipt. He was upset at the delivery company, and made a poor attempt to correct their  behavior.  He  told  the  delivery  company  that  they  were  unable  to  locate  the package.  The  seller  of  the  software  was  informed  that  the  package  was  not  delivered and replaced the discs.  Applicant  did  not  inform  his  employer of  his actions,  and  the  employer believed Applicant  stole  the  discs  for  his  personal  use.  Applicant  was  terminated  in  May  2010. He  was  charged  in  July  2010  with  the  felony  offense  of  embezzlement.  He  hired  an attorney. In February 2012, as part of a deferred adjudication, he pleaded guilty to the misdemeanor  offense  of  trespass  after  having  been  forbidden.  He  was  fined  $250, ordered  to  pay  $250  court  costs,  and  he  completed  100  hours  of  community  service.  Applicant  is remorseful for his conduct.  He  realizes  that his actions  were  stupid and  that  he  completely  mishandled  the  situation.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  never intended  to  steal  the  discs.  He  has  not  been  arrested  or  charged  with  anything  else since the incident.  2 Applicant applied for a job in June 2010. He was sensitive about his education, and  did  not  know  how  to  report  it.  He  wanted  to  receive  credit  for  the  equivalency education  he  received  from  the  company  in  the  early  2000s,  but  he  did  not  want  to misrepresent that he had actual degrees from the universities. His resume listed under “Bachelorette Information” his 2005 and 2006 degrees. Under “Graduate Education and Other Education,” he listed “Available Upon Request.” He discussed his education with the  company,  including  his  attendance  at  the  programs  provided  by  the  company  he worked  for  in  the  early  2000s.  He  had  a  difficult  time  explaining  the  education  at  his hearing. It is likely that he also had difficulty explaining it to his employer. He was hired by the company.  In  July  2010,  the  employer  conducted  a  background  check  on  Applicant.  The request for the background check included the following: We  would  also  like  to check  if  he  went  to [University  1] even  though  it  is not  listed  on  his  resume.  He  is  claiming  that  he  went  there  and  has  a doctorate. Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  did  not  tell  the  employer  that  he  had  a doctorate  from  University  1.  He  told  the  employer  that  he  had  the  equivalent  of  a master’s  degree  from  the  program  created  by  University  1.  The  request  for  a background investigation does not state that Applicant claimed he had a doctorate from University  1.  It  states  that  he  claimed  he  went  to  University  1  and  had  a  doctorate, which is not the same thing.  I find that he was not attempting to falsify his educational credentials. Applicant  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  from  2010  through  2015.  He  had  an opportunity  to  move  to  his  current  employer  to  continue  working  on  a  contract.  He explained  his  educational  background  to  the  employer,  including  his  equivalency education that he received in the early 2000s. Drafts of his resume went back and forth between him and the hiring manager, specifically addressing Applicant’s education and how to report his equivalency education.   The  resume  that  was  eventually  provided  to  the  employer included the following language in the discussion of his employment from 2000 to 2004: Selected as 1 of 30 “[Employer] Future Leaders” globally and provided the opportunity to participate in pilot undergrad and grad equivalent programs developed  and  administered  by [University  2] ,  resulting  in  award  of  degrees  for  Engineering    and Business . [University  1]  and Under  the  education  section  of  the  resume,  Applicant  listed  his  actual  undergraduate and graduate degrees, and he also listed his equivalency degrees, as follows: 3 BS,  Industrial  Engineering.  2002  [University  1]   * * * MBA,  2003 administered by University staff) [University  2]   