In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted, without comment, all of the SOR allegations pertaining to financial considerations . Applicant’s admissions  are  incorporated  herein.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following findings of fact: 2 Background Applicant is a 30-year-old independent subcontractor of a defense contractor. He has  been  serving  in  logistics  with  his  current  sponsor  since  September  2019.  He previously  served  in a  variety  of full-time  or  part-time positions  with  the  Army  National Guard  as an inactive reservist, a temporary technician, and a dual status federal technician.  His  most  recent  grade  was  that  of  sergeant  .  A  2009  high  school graduate, he continued his education, earning credits, but to date, he has not received a degree. It is unclear if he was ever granted a security clearance, for in his SF 86 he denied ever receiving one, but Department Counsel asserted, without documentary verification, that  he  had  been  granted  a  clearance  in  2008.  He  was  married  in  2017.  He  has  two children, born in 2018 and 2020. Financial Considerations General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below can be found in the following exhibits: Item 3 ; Item 5 ; and Item 4 ) However, as noted by Department Counsel, it is unclear if Applicant has yet  made  any  monthly  payments  on  the  loan  as,  once  again,  he  failed  to  submit  any documentation other than a monthly budget to indicate that payments are being made. The SOR alleged four delinquent accounts totaling approximately $24,785, as set forth as follows: SOR  ¶  1.a.  is  a  credit-card  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of  $2,523  that  was charged off in March 2019, after being 120 days past due.  In his Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without  comment,  but  in  his Response to the FORM, he claimed he paid off the creditor in February 2021 and resolved 3 the account. He subsequently submitted a recent credit report that reported the account status as “paid, was a charge-off.”  The account has been resolved. SOR  ¶  1.b.  is  a  credit-card  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of  $4,491  that  was charged off in April 2019, after being 120 days past due.  In his Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without  comment,  but  in  his Response  to  the  FORM,  he  claimed  that  his  efforts  to  address  the  account  with  the collection agent were rebuffed because it was no longer the holder of the account, and they are pending an assignment to a “recoupment company.” While the account remains unresolved, Applicant is credited with attempting to resolve it. SOR  ¶  1.c.  is  a  credit-card  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of  $4,522  that  was charged off in August 2018, after being 120 days past due.  In his Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without  comment,  but  in  his Response to the FORM, he claimed he paid off the creditor in February 2021 and resolved the account. He subsequently submitted a recent credit report that reported the account status as “paid, was a charge-off.”  The account has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.d. is an unspecified type of account with an unpaid balance of $13,249 that was charged off in December 2017, after being 120 days past due.   In  his Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without  comment,  but  in  his Response to the FORM, he claimed he paid off the creditor in February 2021 and resolved the account. He subsequently submitted a recent credit report that reported the account status as “paid, was a charge-off.”  The account has been resolved. It  is  noted  that  despite  Applicant’s  claimed  inability  to  maintain  the  accounts alleged in the SOR in a current status because of insufficient funds to do so, he managed to take three personal trips to visit his wife’s family in Poland in 2017, 2018, and 2019 for varying periods between 6-20 days. . Applicant’s Personal Monthly Budget reports $4,400 in current net monthly income; $3,513  in  monthly  expenses,  including  $829  for  the  consolidation  loan;  and  a  monthly remainder  of  $887  that  might  be  available  for  discretionary  spending  or  savings.   There  is  no  evidence  of  financial  counseling.  Based  on  his current monthly budget, Applicant is currently in a better position financially than he had been. 