Applicant is a 51-year-old Identification Service Operator III , a job she has held since 2014. She has not earned a diploma or degree. There is no record of a period of unemployment in the past two decades. She is single and has one adult child. As of April 2020, the time at which her financial information was last examined, her net yearly salary was approximately $21,750, with a net monthly remainder of about $600 to $700.  A 2017 surgery contributed to Applicant’s acquisition of delinquent debt.  It is unclear whether the surgery was an unexpected emergency surgery, but it was performed in far less than 72 hours  after scheduling.  This  negated  the hospital’s  requirement  to have pre-admission testing one to two weeks before surgery, and to preregister for surgery no less than 72 hours  before  surgery.    To  address  her  debts,  she solicited  the  aid  of  a  debt  resolution  group.  It  has  helped  her  address  various  debts through her regular monthly payments.  In April 2020, she told investigators that she has been timely on her obligations since December 2017. At  issue  in  the  SOR  are  six  debts,  noted  in  the  SOR  at  allegations  1.a-1.f, amounting  to  approximately  $34,664.  In  her  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted responsibility for all the debts except for the ones at allegations 1.c , 1.e , and 1.f . The SOR allegations pertain to the following: 1.a  - $12,265  Repossession  Balance  –  In  repayment  - Applicant  admits responsibility for this debt. It is the result of her having been a co-signer on an unreliable former  partner’s  car  purchase,  which  ultimately  resulted  in  his  cessation  of  timely payments on the vehicle. She has started making payments on a repayment plan. She provided  documentation  reflecting  payment  for  October  2020  through  January  2021, shortly before her FORM response was due.  1.b  –   Poised  for   Repayment   -  $19,454  Charged-off   Vehicle   Loan  –   Applicant admits responsibility for  this balance owed. It  is also the result of her having been a co- signer  on  the  same   former  partner’s  car  purchase.  As  before,  he  ceased   making payments on the vehicle  unbeknownst to  Applicant. Applicant  laments having helped  him get credit. She plans  to start making payments on a repayment plan in  March 2021, once she has more disposable income.  1.c –$1,402 Charged-off  Credit Card –  Settled - Applicant  denies responsibility for this obligation.  She provided a letter  dated September 2020 that reflects  that the account has  been settled.  2 1.d - $1,006 Medical  Debt –  With  debt relief entity for  negotiation  -  Applicant admits responsibility for this debt, noting that it is currently being negotiated by her debt relief entity.  1.e - $405 Telecommunications Collection –  Paid  –  Applicant  denies responsibility for   this  debt.   She  provided  documentation   showing  the  account   has  been  paid  in  full.  1.f  - $132 Medical  Debt –  Paid  - Applicant denies responsibility for  the debt.  She presented  documentation reflecting the account was  satisfied.  Applicant’s  intends  to  continue  responsibly  addressing  her  debts.  She  does  not have an extravagant lifestyle.  Applicant has sufficient  income  to  continue  satisfying  her  obligations.  She  does  not  anticipate  future problems with delinquent debt.  