Applicant is a 66-year-old employee of a defense instructor who seeks a security clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant married in June 1985 and divorced in February 1993.  He has two children from this marriage. He remarried in March 1993, separated in January 2017, and  reconciled  in  2018.    He  has  one  child  from  this  marriage.  Although  it  is unclear when he earned a high school diploma, he earned an Associates of Arts degree  in information technology in November 1999.  Applicant reported no military service. Since  April  2012,  applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  as  a  senior network specialist.   Between April 2005 and  April 2012, he was employed as  a network specialist for another defense contractor. Applicant’s finances Between 2011 and 2013, Applicant accumulated multiple student loans with SOR creditor §§ 1.b-1.g  Credit reports document that these student loans became delinquent  and  are  no  longer  eligible  for  forbearance  since  July  2018.    He accrued other student loans with SOR creditors 1.a and 1.j in July 2018. 2 Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  with  his  creditors  to  his  spousal separation  and  the  extraordinary  expenditures  he  incurred  in  connection  with  his  air conditioning system replacement in 2017.  During his separation, his spouse lived with her sister and did not provide any financial support to him or their children.  While separated, Applicant bore sole responsibility for maintaining the home, maintaining their  financial  obligations,  and  supporting  their  children.    Once  his  wife  moved back into  their  home in late  2018,  she resumed her salary  contributions  to  their family expenses.  Applicant has since addressed his delinquent student loans covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.g.  He  documented  monthly  payments  to  the  student  loan  creditor  between September 2010 and September 2017 in payments amounts ranging between $22 and $56.  In August 2020, Applicant received a letter from the U.S. Department of Education  approving his acceptance into a rehabilitation program for each of the covered DoD loans based on the past payments he made.  The DoE confirmed that Applicant’s monthly payments qualified him for rehabilitation that warranted the deletion of all default entries in his credit reports.  Based on his confirmed rehabilitation, the DoE found Applicant to be “again eligible for  all  of  the  benefits  associated  with  the  rehabilitated  loans  before  default.”   These benefits were considered to include various deferments and forbearances, as well as a variety of repayment plan options.  Despite his approved DoE eligibility to have student loans returned to forbearance eligibility status through December 2020, Applicant has opted to continue making monthly payments.    Applicant’s  payment  history  documents  his  regular  monthly payments to his DoE student loan creditor  between August 2018 and July 2020.  Applicant  has  also  addressed  his  other  SOR  debts  with  documented  payment plans and pay offs. His documentation includes ten payments to the creditor in SOR § 1.h since December 2019, in amounts ranging between $25 and $45 for a total amount of $285 on a carried balance of $1,439.  Under his installment arrangement with this student loan creditor, he has continued to make monthly payments through May 2020 on the debts that became delinquent in October 2018.  Through his payment efforts, he has reduced the delinquent balance from a high of $1,774 to a current balance owed of $1,374.  Of  the  remaining  three  consumer  debts  covered  in  the  SOR,  Applicant  could identify only two as debts belonging to him, SOR § 1.e., ****does this belong?****) the medical debt identified in SOR ¶ 1.i for $520, and the student loan debt covered by SOR ¶ 1.j.  For these two debts, Applicant documented that he is free and clear of any amounts owed to these creditors.  3 Applicant’s  current  financial  status  is  documented  with  evidence  of  stabilized income and responsible management of his expenses. He reported net monthly income of $4,885 for himself and $4,000 for his wife.  This translates into annual income of $57,600 for himself and $48,000 for his wife. He reported joint monthly expenses for him and his wife of $4,174, and a net monthly remainder of $796.  Character references and performance evaluations Applicant is highly regarded by his supervisor, colleagues, and  friends.   Uniformly, they credit him with honesty, loyalty, and dependability  in the discharge of his  network  technician  responsibilities.    Applicant   enjoys  an  excellent reputation in  his community.  His performance  ratings reflect solid ratings for  ethics, safety, work quality, teamwork, technical skills, goal orientation,  and  adaptability for  the last three rating years.  