I have incorporated Applicant’s admissions in his Answer in my findings of fact and have  noted  therein  his  comments  on  the  debts.  Applicant’s  personal  information  is extracted from GE 2, his SCA, unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the  record.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  including  all  of  the documents  attached  to  Applicant’s  Answer,  the  Government’s  FORM,  and  the Government’s documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant,  49,  married  in  2010  and  separated  in  2017.  The  couple  divorced  in November 2018. He has a nine-year-old child and a 17-year-old stepchild. He received a GED in 1991 and has been taking courses online on a part-time basis to earn certifications in  technology  fields.  When  Applicant  was  a  teenager  and  a  young  man,  he  had  some serious  difficulties  with  the  criminal  justice  system,  which  included  a  period  of imprisonment. He has not repeated that behavior since about 2008 and has become a productive member of society.  In October 2015, Applicant began to experience financial difficulties after losing his job.  He  found  part-time  employment  in  January  2016  and  worked  there  until  October 2016, at which time he was hired to work in a full-time position. In February 2017, he was hired  as  an  assembler  by  a  U.S.  Government  contractor,  which  sponsored  him  for  a security clearance.  2 Applicant and his wife began living apart in March 2016. Divorce proceedings were commenced in May 2017. In September 2017, his wife and their children precipitously moved out of the family apartment, breaching the couple’s lease on the apartment. Also, Applicant’s mother died in April 2017, and he incurred part of the cost of her funeral. All of these setbacks caused Applicant’s finances to suffer. The 15 debts alleged in the SOR became  delinquent  during  the  period  2015  through  2017.  He  regained  his  financial stability  in  2017  after  he  began  working  for  his  clearance  sponsor.  In  his  Answer, Applicant wrote that he is current on all of his ongoing debts and financial responsibilities, including his child support.  In  March  2020,  Applicant  began  working  with  a  credit-counseling  firm  to consolidate and manage his debts. He also received counseling from a credit union to help him resolve his debts. The 15 debts alleged in the SOR total approximately $33,460. In his Answer, he wrote that he has settled and paid $10,284 of these debts, leaving a balance of about $23,176. He attached to his Answer a number of documents evidencing payments of the following seven debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d , 1.f , 1.i , 1.j , 1.m , 1.n , and 1.o . His documentation showed that he paid a total of $4,875 to settle these debts. All of these payments were made after the date of the SOR in 2020.  Applicant also provided two credit reports with notations that were made by a credit counselor.  These  notations  indicate  that  Applicant  was  “settling”  the  following  five additional debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b , 1.e , 1.g , 1.h , and 1.l . The total of the alleged amounts of these debts is $11,274. A second credit report provided by Applicant contains a notation that the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.g were “Settled.” The second credit report also notes that the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h is “Settling.” Applicant provided no additional evidence to establish that he had settled the debts  set  forth  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.g  or  to  reflect  what  actions  he  had  taken  or  was planning to take to settle the three other debts in this group of debts.  In addition to the above, Applicant has admitted the three additional debts alleged in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  ,  1.c  ,  and  1.k  .  The  first  debt  is  the  result  of Applicant’s former wife breaching her apartment lease. The Government’s November 26, 2019 credit report indicates that Applicant has disputed this debt.  In an April 12, 2017 court order in an action brought by his former wife’s landlord, Applicant was ordered to pay an arrearage in their rent of $4,922 over a period of five months.  Applicant  paid  the  entire  arrearage.  A  month  after  that  debt  was  fully  paid, Applicant’s  then-wife  breached  the  lease  by  moving  out  of  the  apartment  with  their children.  The  lease  did  not  expire  until  February  2018.  Applicant  was  living  elsewhere and  was  unaware  of  her  actions.  Her  breach  resulted  in  damages  of  $6,373  for  five months of unpaid rent and other physical damage to the apartment. The court’s divorce decree  ordered  that  Applicant  and  his  former  wife  are  both  responsible  for  their  debts arising after the date of their separation, which included this debt. His wife failed to pay 3 her share of this debt. Applicant disputes that he owes more than his one-half share of this debt.  Applicant’s credit counselor noted on one of the credit reports that “Client needs help” with this debt.  The  other credit report  notes that this debt was “Paid  Off Settled.” The  record  evidence  is  otherwise  silent  on  the  current  status  of  this  debt,  the  largest alleged in the SOR.  The two remaining SOR debts are alleged in ¶¶ 1.c  and 1.k . The debts alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c is listed on one of Applicant’s credit reports with the notation that “Client needs help” with this debt. His other credit report contains the notation “DMP,” which stands for “Debt Management Plan.” The record contains no additional evidence as to whether any payments were made under the terms of a plan arranged by the credit counselor. This debt was the balance due on an auto installment loan.  The  remaining  debt,  SOR  ¶  1.k    was  a  delinquent  account  owed  to  a communications  company.  A  notation  on  one  of  Applicant’s  credit  reports  reflects  this account  was  “Settled”  and  a  notation  on  his  second  credit  report  indicated  that  this account was “Settling.” The record contains no additional evidence to support the notation that the account was resolved.  Applicant  provided  extensive  documentation  from  his  divorce  proceeding  to demonstrate that he has acted responsibly in the handling of his family responsibilities, even in the middle of a contentious divorce. An order of the court, dated December 13, 2019,  established  that  Applicant  had  fully  paid  his  child-support  arrearage  and  was current with his ongoing support obligation.  