In his response to the  SOR, Applicant  admitted, with comments, all of the SOR allegations  pertaining  to  financial  considerations  ,  criminal conduct  ,  and  personal  conduct  .  Department Counsel  moved  to  amend  the  SOR  essentially  by  moving  subparagraph  2.a.  to  new subparagraph  3.b.  The  motion  was  granted  over  Applicant’s  objection.   Applicant’s admissions and his comments are incorporated herein. After a complete and thorough review of  the evidence  in the  record,  and upon due consideration of  same, I make the following findings of fact: Background Applicant is a 55-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as a senior network engineer since July 2019. He previously held a variety of positions   with  different employers since early 2003. He has received an offer from a new employer for a position of  senior  network  engineer  with  a starting  annual  salary  of $160,000.    He is a 1983 high school graduate. He enlisted in the US. Army in October 1984, and served on active  duty  until  April  1987,  when  he  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge  under honorable conditions for unsatisfactory performance.  Although he was denied a secret clearance on two occasions, he was granted a secret clearance on one occasion. He has never been married. He has two children, born in 1988 and 1989. 2 Military Awards and Decorations During his period of active duty, Applicant received the Army Service Ribbon, the Overseas  Service  Ribbon,  the  Army  Achievement  Medal,  the  Marksman  Ribbon-M16, and Hand Grenade Expert.  Financial Considerations General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  GE  1  ;  GE  5 ; GE 6  ;  GE  7  ;  GE  8  ;  GE  13  ;  and  Applicant’s  Answers  to  SOR,  dated December 27, 2019, and March 24, 2020. In  his  SF  86,  Applicant  acknowledged  having  one  delinquent  account  that  he claimed  that  he  had  never  opened.  He  denied  having  any  other  delinquent  accounts within the past seven years. When he was interviewed by an investigator from the US. Office of Personnel Management  in June 2016, he acknowledged the one account listed in his SF 86, as well as some medical bills that his health insurance should have paid. Even after being confronted, he denied knowing anything about nearly a dozen other delinquent  accounts.  In  November  2017,  while  again  being  questioned  by  an  OPM investigator, he acknowledged the medical bills as well as two other delinquent accounts. During  a  June  2018  OPM  interview,  he  added  several  additional  delinquents  to  the discussion. Applicant has experienced periodic financial difficulties at least since early 2004 when he had an automobile involuntarily repossessed after he lost a job and was unable to pay his bills.  In February 2004, he reported that he had six delinquent accounts  totaling  over  $9,000.  )  In  addition,  he attributed  some  of  his  financial  problems  to  having  to  make  $1,700  in  monthly  child- support  payments.  Although  he  experienced  a  number  of  short-term  periods  of unemployment between positions, he did not focus on any specific factors that rendered him unable to maintain his accounts in a current status. He offered no evidence of ever receiving  financial  counseling.  Instead,  aside  for  a  few  delinquent  accounts  that  were apparently addressed by him prior to the issuance of the SOR in November 2019, as well as those described below, commencing in June 2020, he engaged the services of a credit- repair firm, and they disputed a variety of accounts without specifying the basis for the disputes.  He terminated his relationship with the firm and started addressing his creditors individually by himself. The SOR alleged ten delinquent accounts totaling approximately $25,165, set forth as follows: SOR  ¶  1.a.:  There  is  an  income  tax  lien  in  the  amount  of  $3,214 that  was  filed against him in December 2018.  The lien resulted in confusion over income as an 3 independent  contractor  under  a  Form  1099,  without  withholding.  When  the  issue  was brought  to  his  attention,  he  established  a  repayment  plan  with  the  Internal  Revenue Service , but failed to do so separately with the local government.  In June 2020, seven months after the SOR was issued, Appellant and the office of tax and revenue established an Installment Agreement under which Applicant agreed to start to make monthly payments in the amount of $35.17 on August 1, 2020, and every month thereafter until the tax liability is paid in full. He submitted documentation to confirm that he has been in compliance with the Installment Agreement.  The account is in the process of being resolved. SOR  ¶  1.b.:  There  are  condominium  association  assessments  for  the  period January 1, 2018, through October 3, 2019, totaling $7,619.  After he was sued, but before the trial date, in October 2019, Applicant and the creditor agreed to a Settlement Agreement under which he agreed to make a lump-sum payment of $3,000 on or before October 31, 2019. He made that payment on the due date.  The account has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.c.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $108 that was placed for collection.  In April 2020, Applicant and the collection agent agreed that Applicant would deposit a post-dated check for the unpaid balance plus a $10 fee on or by April 10, 2020. He actually paid the agreed amount on May 29, 2020, six months after the SOR was issued.  The account has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.d.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $561 that was placed for collection.  Applicant paid the collection agent on October 5, 2020, 11 months after the SOR was issued, and over a week after the hearing took place.  The account has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.e.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $1,129 that was placed for collection.  In August 2020, nine months after the SOR was issued, Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  repayment  plan  under  which  he  would make a $20 payment on August 21, 2020, and every month thereafter he would make two  preauthorized  recurring  $20  payments  until  the  outstanding  balance  is  satisfied  in July 2021.  The account is in the process of being resolved. SOR ¶ 1.f.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $4,773 that was charged off.  In September 2020, ten months after the SOR was issued, Applicant and the creditor agreed to a repayment plan under which, starting on the 18th of each month, he would make a $20 payment until the account is paid in full.  He submitted documentation indicating that the initial payment was made on September 18, 2020, one week before the hearing.  The account is in the process of being resolved. SOR ¶ 1.g.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $2,503 that was charged off,  In July 2020, eight months after the SOR was issued,  Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  repayment  plan  under  which, starting on October 2, 2020, he would make monthly payments of $50 until the account 4 is paid in full.  The account is in the very early process of being resolved. SOR ¶ 1.h.: There is a furniture-store charge account with an unpaid balance of $2,085 that  was  placed for  collection.   After  he was  sued, but before  the  trial date,  in February  2020,  Applicant  and the  collection  agent  agreed to  a Settlement Agreement under which they agreed to settle the account with a lump-sum payment of $1,220 to be made by March 5, 2020. That payment was made in February 2020, and the collection agent considered the account to be settled in full.  The account has been resolved. SOR ¶ 1.i.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $1,661 that was placed for collection.  After he was sued, but before the trial date,  in  September  2020,  Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  Settlement Agreement under which they agreed to settle the account with a lump-sum payment of $1,330 to be made by September 18, 2020. Applicant submitted a Notice of Dismissal, dated September 22, 2020, indicating that the lawsuit had been dismissed as paid and satisfied.  The account has been resolved. SOR  ¶  1.j.:  There  is  a  clothing-store  charge  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of $512 that was charged off.  Applicant made a payment of $384 in settlement of the account on May 29, 2020. . The account has been resolved. In addition to the SOR debts discussed above, Applicant had delinquent accounts with other creditors, most of which he started to resolve in 2020.  As noted above, Applicant has received an offer from a new employer for a position of senior network engineer with a starting annual salary of $160,000. That would increase his  annual  salary  substantially  from  his  current  $133,900  annual  salary.  Prior  to  the hearing, he reported his net monthly income from his current employer is approximately $6,682, and his anticipated net monthly income from his new employer would be $9,357. After his routine monthly expenses and pre-hearing debt payments, he anticipated having a  monthly  remainder  of  approximately  $4,836  that  might  be  available  for  discretionary spending or savings.  The actual remainder should be increased because he was still reporting anticipated payments that he had already made for accounts that have already been paid off. In addition, Applicant has applied to the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs for disability compensation.  As of the closing of the record, no final decision on his application had been made. Criminal Conduct and Personal Conduct When he was a child – from the third grade through the tenth grade – Applicant experienced  behavioral  problems,  including  fighting  and  stealing,  and  as  a  result,  his father required that he receive counseling two to three times per week.  Some of  that  behavior  continued,  for  Applicant  has  a  lengthy  history  of  criminal  conduct  and 5 questionable personal behavior, during which he exhibited something other than peaceful activity, that he was angry, and was either offensively or defensively violent, commencing in  March  1986  while  he  was  on  active  duty,  when  he  was  about  20  years  old,  and continuing through at least June 2015. Included in that history are various incidents that resulted in various arrests for misdemeanors and felonies, the issuance of peace orders ,  violations  of  military  standards  and  requirements,  court decisions,  and  military  disciplinary  actions.  His  actions  while  on  active  duty  are  not individually  alleged  in  the  SOR.  There  are  a  number  of  post-discharge  convictions, several charges were dismissed or otherwise not prosecuted, and the final disposition is not known for some of the incidents. The incidents and their eventual results, are listed below: SOR ¶ 3.b.: Applicant  received a general discharge under honorable conditions from the U.S. Army in April 1987 for unsatisfactory performance, essentially for a variety of military violations during 1986-87. ) When questioned about his discharge by a Special Agent from the Defense Security Service in 2004, Applicant characterized his discharge basis as “unable to perform” because he was struck in the head with a baseball bat during a fight, fracturing his skull, and he was thereafter unable to perform his military duties. )  He  later  explained  that  he  was  young  and  did  not understand  life.  He  conceded  that  he  was  disrespectful  at  times,  and  had  numerous fights. ) SOR  ¶  2.b.:  In  April  or  May  1988,  he  was  arrested  for  simple  assault,  a misdemeanor, but the prosecutor declined to file a charge, and the matter was apparently dismissed when it was “non-papered.” ) SOR  ¶  2.c.:  In  February  1989,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  battery,  a misdemeanor,  when  he  was  in  a  fist  fight  with  his  father.  He  explained  that  he  had previously  been  abused  as  a  child,  and  he  became  very  angry  with  him.  His  father reported the incident to authorities. Although he contended that he was not prosecuted, he was, in fact, released on a bail bond, and placed on probation before judgment.  SOR  ¶  2.d.:  In  October  1990,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  battery  and malicious destruction of property , both misdemeanors, when he grabbed a female friend’s arm too hard. The “victim” had broken the lock on Applicant’s sister’s automobile, so he grabbed her arm. Both charges were dismissed nolle prosequi.  SOR ¶ 2.e.: In February 1992, he was arrested and charged with assault with a deadly weapon – a shod foot. He had met a former girlfriend at a club, but he chose to give her the cold shoulder and she became confrontational. She purportedly pushed him through a set of double doors, so he departed without further interaction. He went to a nearby fast-food restaurant, and she showed up there as well. Talking resulted in another argument, and then to another physical incident when she struck him, and he retaliated. 6 He kicked her with his shod foot. The charge was reduced to simple assault, to which he entered  a  plea  of  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  one  year  of  supervised  probation,  and ordered to serve 90 hours of community service.  SOR  ¶  2.f.:  In  July  1993,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  stalking,  a misdemeanor. The charge was dismissed nolle prosequi. No other information regarding the incident was developed because the documentation did not contain any other facts and Applicant cannot recall the incident.  SOR ¶ 2.g.: In January 1995, he was arrested and charged with simple assault, a misdemeanor. He had dropped off his “expensive clothes” at the cleaners, and when he went to retrieve them, he discovered that they  had destroyed them by using too much bleach. He was furious and decided to grab them and leave without paying for the “poor service.” The store manager followed him out and grabbed him. He turned around and smacked her.  He was  convicted  and sentenced  to  confinement    for 180 days , and two years’ supervised probation.  SOR ¶ 2.h.: In May 1997, he was arrested for destruction of property over $200, a felony. He had previously given his girlfriend a laptop computer, but after an argument, he  took  it  back  and  threw  it  into  the  trash,  where  the  police  found  it.  He  was  held  for several hours, but the prosecutor declined to file a charge, and the matter was dismissed when it was “non-papered.”   SOR  ¶  2.i.:  In  April  2003,  a  temporary  peace  order  was  issued  against  him, directing that he shall not commit an unspecified prohibited act; that he not contact the unidentified petitioner; that he shall not enter an unspecified location; and that he shall stay away from an unspecified someone or some thing or place. The peace order was dismissed one week later.  The basis for the peace order was not reported. SOR ¶ 2.j.: In October 2005, another temporary peace order was issued against him, directing that he shall not commit an unspecified prohibited act; that he not contact the unidentified petitioner; that he shall not enter an unspecified location; and that he shall stay away from the residence of the unspecified petitioner. The peace order was reissued one week later, and finally dismissed three weeks later.  The basis for the peace order was not reported. SOR ¶ 2.k.: In January 2007, he was arrested and charged with simple assault – domestic  violence,  after  a  physical  altercation  with  his  brother.  Four  months  later,  the charge was dismissed for want of prosecution.  SOR  ¶¶  2.l.,  2.m.,  and  2.n.:  In  May  2007,  August  2007,  and  January  2010, temporary peace orders – all involving the same girlfriend as the petitioner – were issued against him. They essentially directed that he shall not abuse, shall not contact, shall not enter  residence,  and  shall  stay  away  from  school.  Each  of  the  peace  orders  was 7 dismissed when neither party appeared.  The basis for the peace orders was not reported. SOR  ¶  2.o.:  In  May  2010,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  simple  assault,  a misdemeanor. The charge was dismissed in September 2010.  The basis for the charge was not reported. SOR ¶ 2.p.: In August 2011, he was arrested and charged with attempted threats to do bodily harm – domestic violence, after a verbal dispute with his daughter. Upon his plea  of  guilty,  he  was  sentenced  to  one  year  of  supervised  probation  and  180  days .  SOR ¶ 2.q.: In November 2011, a temporary peace order was issued against him, and one week later, a final peace order was issued.  The basis for the peace order was not reported. SOR  ¶  2.r.:  In  April  2012,  depending  on  which  GE  is  accurate,  he  was  either arrested and charged with obstructing police – disobeying a lawful order; traffic offense – speeding  83/55  mph;  and  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  Federal  Bureau  of Investigation    Identification  Record  ,  or  arrested  and  charged  with speeding; and interfering with agency functions – disobeying a lawful order, according to the district court and the Violation Notice that was issued to him by the police.  I find the court documentation more persuasive as it is primary evidence, not secondary evidence.  He  was  fined  for  the  speeding  charge,  and  the  violation  of  the  lawful  order charge was dismissed upon a plea agreement.  SOR  ¶  2.s.:  In  July  2012,  a  temporary  peace  order  was  issued  against  him, directing that he shall not abuse, shall not contact, shall not enter residence, and shall stay away from employment of the unspecified petitioner. The peace order was reissued one week later, and finally dismissed three weeks later.  The basis for the peace order was not reported. SOR  ¶  2.t.:  In  June  2015,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  simple  assault  – domestic violence and attempted possession of a prohibited weapon , after his soon-to-be  ex-brother-in-law  came  to  the  family  home  and  repeatedly  created  a disturbance. Applicant simply attempted to protect his mother and sister. The following month, the charges were dismissed for want of prosecution.  Applicant is remorseful about his violent past and he contends that he is no longer the person he was when he was involved in the above conduct, and that his life now has meaning and purpose. Although he screwed up in the past, he loved being in the military. Nevertheless, he acknowledged that he was “a screw up operating on auto pilot trying to find myself.” Now that he has found himself, he can admit that he is not perfect. He is a man who made mistakes, and he pays for them every day with the thought of knowing that he did something wrong.  He apologizes for the past, but he cannot change what 8 previously occurred. He can, however, ensure that it will never happen again.  Character References Applicant’s mother, older brother, and middle sister, are effusive in praise for him, recognizing the difficulties he encountered when he was growing up. His brother recalled the very traumatic childhood Applicant went through when he was physically, mentally, and  sexually  abused  by  their  father  and  stepmother.  On  one  Christmas  occasion,  he received no gifts, but was forced to sit and watch while the other members of the family opened their gifts. At one point, their father tried to turn him over to the state. Applicant is integrity,  considerate, characterized  as  kind,  caring,  a  man  of  character  and compassionate, very loving, engaging, and funny. He spreads his hugs and kisses to the entire family, especially the children, and he serves as a mentor to one of his nephews. Applicant’s past actions were due to the only way he knew how to deal with his problems: he fought as a child and young adult. Now, he has direction and a purpose, and he cries when he speaks about his past. For overcoming his troubled past, Applicant is considered a success story.  Current and former work colleagues are also extremely supportive of Applicant’s access to classified information. One individual, a lead network architect, considers him to be one of the most dedicated engineers that he has experienced in his career. He has a strong work ethic, high quality work, adherence to protocol, knowledge and ability, and a sincere ambition to serve others with the very best of his efforts. He is trustworthy and honest. He is a fast-learner, and he is very careful and cautious about his work. In part, because he has gone out of his way to welcome newcomers and resolve any problems they  might  have,  pitches  innovative  ideas  at  company  meetings,  accepts  constructive criticism, and remained late to complete time-sensitive projects, he has often been given additional responsibilities and assumed a leadership role.  A former colleague worked with him for approximately six years, and aside from his  favorable  comments  regarding  Applicant’s  work  performance,  he  commented favorably  regarding  his  personal  life,  about  which  he  is  very  familiar.  He  noted  that Applicant will be the first to admit that at times he has been quick tempered, but he seems to  be  doing  all  in  his  power  to  be  more  self-aware  and  in  control  of  his  actions  and reactions.  One individual, who has a nonprofit organization that operates transitional housing for returning citizens, has known Applicant for over 50 years. He has watched him grow up  into  a  respectable,  dependable,  and  trustworthy  man.  He  is  honest,  walks  with integrity,  and  has  a  strong  work  ethic  and  sense  of  responsibility.  Applicant  has volunteered to prepare a transition house to receive new participants, but also served as a  mentor  to  teach  the  individual’s  son  and  his  cousin  about  painting  professionally, cleaning up responsibly,  and the  importance of  working hard,  studying for  school,  and being  careful  about  the  people  with  whom  he  hangs  around.  He  has  no  reservations concerning Applicant’s character and fitness for a security clearance.  9 