Applicant admitted to all the allegations in SOR, except for SOR allegation ¶ 1.j. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  February  of  2020.  She  currently  does  not hold a security clearance. Since November of 2018, she has been pending divorce from her spendthrift husband. She has one child.  She attributes her current financial situation her husband’s deleterious  spending ways. In addition, he also lost his job in 2017.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $13,741 to Creditor A, as the result of the repossession of one of her husband’s many motor vehicles.  This debt has been cancelled by Creditor A, as evidenced  by  an  Internal  Revenue  Service    Form  1099-C.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $12,510 to Creditor B,  as  the  result  of  the  repossession  of  another  one  of  her  husband’s  many  motor vehicles.    This  debt  has  been  cancelled  by Creditor B, as evidenced by an IRS Form 1099-C.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c. Applicant  admits that  she  had  a past-due  debt for  about  $7,961  to  Creditor C,  as  the  result  of  the  repossession  of  another  one  of  her  husband’s  many  motor vehicles.  This debt was settled for $800, of which  Applicant  has  already  paid  $600,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  a successor creditor to this debt.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.d.  Applicant admits that she has a past-due debt for about $5,900 to Creditor D,  as  the  result  of  the  repossession  of  another  one  of  her  husband’s  many  motor vehicles.    This  vehicle  was  acquired  by  her estranged husband just prior to the divorce filing, and Applicant is making a good-faith effort to address this past-due debt. This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.e. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $3,261 to  Creditor E.  This debt “is paid in full,” as evidenced by documentation from a successor creditor to this debt.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 2 1.f. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $3,023 to Creditor F.  She is making monthly payments of $302, with  a reduced balance due of $1,209, as evidenced by documentation from Creditor F.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.g.  Applicant  admits  that  she  has a  past-due  debt for  about  $2,633  to  Creditor G,  as  the  result  of  cosigning  for  one  of  her  estranged  husband’s  credit  cards.   I find that Applicant is making a good-faith effort to address this past-due debt. This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.h. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $2,164 to Creditor H.    This  debt  has  a  “$0.00”  balance,  as evidenced  by  documentation  from  a  successor  creditor  to  this  debt.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.i.    Applicant  admits  that  she  had  a  past-due  medical  debt  for  about  $850  to Creditor  I.    She  has  paid  of  $595  towards  this  debt,  with reduced  balance  due of  $397,  as  evidenced  by  Applicant’s  banking  records.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.j.  Applicant  denies  that  she  had  a  past-due  medical  debt  for  about  $735  to Creditor  J.    She  avers,  credibly,  that  this medical  debt  has  been  paid  by  her  health  insurance,  and  it  does  not  appear  on  the Government’s most recent January 2021 credit report.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.k.  Applicant  admits  that  she  had  a  past-due  medical  debt  for  about  $698  to Creditor  K.    She  has  paid  $116  towards  this  debt,  as evidenced by documentation from Creditor K.  I find that Applicant is making a good-faith effort to address this past-due debt. This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.l. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $580 to Creditor L.   This  debt  has  a  “$0.00”  balance,  as evidenced  by  documentation  from  Creditor  L.    This  allegation  is  found  for Applicant. 1.m. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $346 to Creditor M.   She  has  made  two  payments  of  $173 towards  this  debt,  with  reduced  balance  due  of  zero,  as  evidenced  by  Applicant’s banking records.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.n. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $329 to Creditor N.  She is making monthly payments of $60 towards this debt, as evidenced by documentation from Creditor N.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 3 1.o. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $242 to Creditor O.  She has made a payment of $242 towards this  debt  in  November  of  2020,  with  reduced  balance  due  of  zero,  as  evidenced  by Applicant’s banking records.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.p.. 1.r. and 1.s. Applicant admits that she had past-due medical debts totaling about  $387  to  Creditor  P.   This  account  is  no  longer  past due, as evidenced by Applicant’s banking records.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.q. Applicant admits that she had a past-due debt for about $124 to Creditor Q.  She  has  made  a  payment of $124  towards this  debt  in  November  of  2020,  with  reduced  balance  due  of  zero,  as  evidenced  by Applicant’s banking records.  This allegation is found for Applicant. 