Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b. and 1.e. He denied SOR allegations  ¶¶  1.c.  and  1.d.,  and  1.f.~1.i.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with a defense contractor for “30 years,” with a break in 2014 when Applicant was “laid off” and was advised by counsel to then retire.   In  2002,  he  had  been  injured  on  the  job; and  as  such,  “worked  with  a  limited workload.”    In  March  of  2015,  Applicant’s disability  payments  were  cut  off;  and  Applicant  became  homeless  for  “two  and  a  half years,”  until  he  was  reemployed  in  2018.   He  is  married,  and  his wife  is  in  critical  condition  “with  a  large  mass  that  needs  to  be removed,” but Applicant is able to pay her medical bills.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  and  1.b   While homeless, from 2015~2018, Applicant’s financial documents were misplaced in “a storage unit;” and as such, he was unable to file both Federal and state tax returns for tax years 2015~2017 in a timely fashion.   They  have  since  been  filed,  prior  to  the  issuance  of  the  SOR,  as evidenced by Federal and state tax documentation.  1.c.  Applicant has paid his Federal income taxes owed for tax year 2017 by way of  installments,  as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  the  Internal  Revenue  Service .  1.d. Applicant’s past-due debt to Creditor D has been paid by wage garnishment, as  evidenced  by  documentation  from  Creditor  D’s  counsel.   1.e.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  E  has  been  settled  and  paid,  as evidenced  by  banking  documentation.   1.f.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  F  has  been  paid,  as  evidenced  by documentation from Creditor F.  1.g.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  G  has  been  paid,  as  evidenced  by documentation from the successor creditor to Creditor G.  1.h.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  H  has  been  paid,  as  evidenced  by documentation  from  the  successor  creditor  to  Creditor  H.   2 1.i.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  I  has  been  settled  and  paid,  as evidenced by documentation from Creditor I.  