Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, each with a brief explanation. He referenced exhibits in his Answer but did not provide any at that time. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 46  years old.  He  was married  from  1997  to  2011,  when  he  and  his wife divorced.    They  have  one  son, now  age  24. He also has  a  son, born in  March 2012.  His  son   lives  with   his  mother  on   Guam.  .  Applicant attested that he is the  sole source of income  for his younger son  and his  mother.  Applicant has not remarried.   He lives with his girlfriend.  Applicant earned his Bachelor’s degree online from state university O in October 2008 and continued advanced studies with the same institution until December 2009.  He said he need only take his final exam to earn a Master’s degree.  2 Two of his SOR debts are student loans to an account connected to state university O. Applicant disclosed on his SCA that he had student loan debt.  Applicant served for 20 years on active duty in the U.S. Navy, retiring in December 2014 as an E-6 . Beginning in January 2013 or January 2014, he also worked the night shift with a defense contractor  on the same Navy base, until he retired from active duty.  He continued to work at the base until April 2021. From late 2017 to January 2019, Applicant also worked as a ride-share driver at night.    He  left  that  job  when  he  began  working  the  day  shift  for  his  current employer, another defense contractor. He now works for that defense contractor full time, his  current  clearance  sponsor.    He  works  as  a  logistics  analyst,  and earns  an  annual  salary  of  $82,000    He  also  receives  $1,526  in  monthly disability  and  $730  in  monthly  retirement.    Applicant  has  had  a  security clearance since early in his Navy career.  SOR  ¶¶  1.b    and  1.c    are  student  loan  accounts  with  state university O that are allegedly in collection status. The account numbers are not listed in the SOR allegations. Applicant denied the allegations, asserting that the debts had been paid.  A  July  2017  credit report lists two  student loan  accounts with  state  university  O as “Pays as Agreed.”  An  August 2018  credit report lists both  accounts as having a  zero balance. One  of  them   says “transferred  and  sold.” The  second   says,  “Closed  or paid account.  Zero Balance.”  However, an  April 2019 credit  report  lists  both   SOR  ¶¶   1.b   and   1.c  as  in  collection,  with   the   amount  owed   as alleged    A  January  2021  credit report  lists both  accounts as having  a  zero balance,  and  reflect  the  status of “Pays as Agreed.”  An  April 2021  credit report  provided  by  Applicant shows similar information.   Applicant  also  provided   a   pay   stub   from   November  2018   showing   two garnishments for student loan  payments  and another pay  stub  from  May  2020,  showing  a  zero balance  on  the  two  garnishments  .    The  student loan  creditor are  not identified on   the   pay   stubs.      Applicant  also   provided   checks  from  the   U.S. Department   of  Education   reflecting   payment   to   him   of  “federal   student  loan   refunds” because  of  certain overpayments he  made. . He testified  that he  no longer owes student loans, either to  the  federal government, or to state  university O.  SOR ¶  1.b and 1.c  are  resolved for Applicant, as  the  government’s  own  evidence shows no balance is  due.   SOR ¶ 1.a  is a consumer credit-card debt with a bank that caters to U.S. military personnel, in collection.  Applicant testified that the debt was a joint debt with his ex-wife, and said he was current on it until about five years ago. The credit 3 reports support this, as they show that the account was opened in 2006; the last payment was made in 2016, and it was reported for collection in 2017  He said he was left with the debt after the divorce, since his wife was not employed.  Applicant attempted several years ago to negotiate a settlement but was not able to do so.  More recently, in April 2021, he negotiated a settlement to pay $1,127 a month for 12 months .  Applicant had made two $1,127 payments on the settlement by the time the record closed.  Given the nature of  the  agreement  and  the  singular  nature  of  this  debt,  I  believe  these  payments  will continue and the debt will be resolved in due course. SOR ¶ 1.a is being paid and will be resolved under the settlement agreement. Applicant  attributed  his  debts  to  a  divorce.  He  said  he  was  “stuck  with  all  the financial hardship,” while his wife assumed none of the financial liability. He said he has made efforts to resolve his debts.  He testified that after the divorce, he had multiple credit cards to pay down. He said that the debt at SOR ¶ 1.a was the last one.  Applicant’s  largest  monthly  expenses  are  his  cars.  Applicant  bought  one  car  in April  2020,  and  financed  about  $27,000  of  the  purchase  price.  He  said  the  monthly payments  are  $513.  Credit  reports  in  the  record  show  several  months  of  current payments.  He bought a second car a month later, for $56,000, with  monthly  payments  of  $924.  Credit  reports  in  the  record  show  several  months  of current payments.  He testified that he bought the more expensive car as a present for himself, having paid off some taxes and student loans. He had also received a raise.  Applicant has also assumed the car payments for his 24-year-old son, who left the car with his father after he moved outside the continental United States with his wife who is in the military.  The car is a hatchback, and its monthly payments are modest, at $217.21.  Applicant also pays $1,000 in monthly child support for his younger son. . He rents his home .  Review  of  his current credit reports  show  no  unalleged  delinquencies.    Applicant  testified   that   he   participated   in  credit  counseling   with   his wife  during   their marriage  and  that “of  course” he  keeps a  budget and  watches his finances.  He  testified  that  during  his time  in  the  Navy, he  had  counseled  sailors on  the  importance of  maintaining their clearance  for their  future employment.  The  president  and  CEO  of  Applicant’s  employer  considers  Applicant  “an  ideal employee.” He works independently and excels at his job. He is dependable and reliable. He exemplifies the company’s core values of quality,  integrity, teamwork, and success. His  job  includes  sanitizing  company  documents  and  manuals  for  disclosure  to  foreign trustworthiness,  specialized governments,  a  difficult knowledge,  and  keen  attention  to  detail.”  His  U.S.  government  customer  feels  he  has been  invaluable.  The  author  offers  his  “strongest  recommendation”  that  Applicant  be granted a clearance.  “exceptional requiring job 4 