Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a   28-year-old  employee   of   a   defense   contractor.  He   served   in  the U.S. Navy  from  about November  of  2013  until  August of  2015, and  received  a  General Discharge.  Applicant  has  been   employed   with   a   defense   contractor   since   2019.  He currently   holds   no   security   clearance.  Applicant   is unmarried, and  has  no   children.   He has  a   high   school  education.  Applicant  attributes  his  financial  difficulties  to   being unemployed   or  underemployed   from   the   time   he   left  the   Navy  until  his  present employment.    Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  Applicant admits that he  has a  past-due  debt to  Creditor A,  as  the  result of an  automobile  repossession,  in the  amount  of  about  $15,847.  In  his Answer, Applicant shows that he  has “Enrolled” this admitted  debt in a  “Debt Relief” program.  At his hearing, Applicant  further  avers that this debt was settled for $4,400, and that he  is making  monthly  payments of  $574  towards this, his only  remaining  past-due debt.    I find  this  to  be  a  good-faith  effort  to address this admitted  debt. 1.b.  Applicant  admits  that he  had  a  past-due  debt to  Creditor B  in the  amount of about $1,353. In  his Answer, Applicant shows that he  has “Enrolled” this admitted  debt in  the   “Debt   Relief”  program,  and   that  “Payments  [were]  Completed”   and   settled   for $677.   This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.c.  Applicant admits that he  had  a  past-due  debt to  Creditor C in  the  amount of about $6,243. In  his Answer, Applicant shows that he  has “Enrolled” this admitted  debt in  the   “Debt   Relief”  program,  and   that  “Payments  [were]  Completed”   and   settled   for $2,498.      This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.d. Applicant admits that he  had  a  past-due  debt to  Creditor D in the  amount of about $283. He has submitted  documentation  in support of his averment  that this debt has  been   paid.      This  allegation   is found  for Applicant. 1.e  . Applicant admits that  he  had  a  past-due  debt to  Creditor E  in  the  amount of about $457. He has submitted  documentation  in support of his averment  that this debt 2 has been  paid.   This allegation is found  for Applicant. 