Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, through 1.f. He denied SOR allegations  ¶¶  1.a.  and  1.b.,  with  explanations.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.   He  has  been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  2020.   Applicant is separated from his spouse “since 2013,” is pending a divorce, and has  three  children.    He was  unemployed  or underemployed  from  2005~2020.  Applicant  attributes  his  financial  difficulties  to  his separation and pending divorce, and to his 15 years of deficient employment.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.  and   1.b.  Applicant  is  current  with   Federal  and   state   income   tax   filings,  as evidenced  by  copies of those  filings.  1.c.  Through  the  auspices of  a  tax  relief  firm,  Applicant’s  past tax  delinquencies have  been  placed   in a   “Currently   Not  Collectable Status  ,”   and  he   is required  to use  3% of his net  monthly  income  as  payments to  the  Internal Revenue  Service .  Through  this process, Applicant’s  tax   debt   to   the   IRS   has  been   reduced   to   $12,732.00,  as  evidenced   by documentation  from  his tax relief  firm.  1.d.  Applicant’s  past-due   debt   to   Creditor  D  is  “paid  in  full,”  as  evidenced   by   a letter from Creditor D.  1.e.  Applicant’s  past-due  debt to  Creditor  E  has a  “Balance  $0.00,”  as  evidenced by  letters from  Creditor E.  1.f.  Through  the  auspices  of  legal  counsel,  Applicant  has  made  a  reasonable settlement offer to Creditor E vis-à-vis his $5,424 past-due car lease debt. Through this offer,  Applicant  agrees  to  make  two  $500  payments,  and  monthly  payments  of  $150 thereafter  “until  [the  debt  is]  paid.” . This is evidenced by a letter of offer to Creditor E.  I find this to be a good-faith effort to address this admitted past-due debt. 2 