Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR,  with  explanations.  After  a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  been employed with the defense contractor for “about two and a half years.” She is divorced, and  has  two  children,  ages  sixteen  and  three.   Applicant attributes her current financial difficulties to her 2015 divorce, a “split up” with a subsequent boyfriend, and to brief periods of unemployment.  She has recently completed financial counseling.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a.,   1.b.,   1.d.~1.h.,  and   1.aa.~1.dd.  Applicant  is  indebted   to   the   Department   of Education, for student loans,  in an  amount totaling  about $63,000.  She  has  entered   into  a   rehabilitation   plan   with   the   Department of  Education,   by   which Applicant  will  make   monthly   payments  of   $40   for  nine   months;  and   as   a   result,  this student loan  debt  will be  taken  out of  default.  This is evidenced  by said agreement with the Department of Education.  1.c.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  Creditor  C  in  the  amount  of  about  $8,650  as  the result of an 2019 automobile repossession.   She  is  making  monthly  payments  of  $200 towards this “repo” debt, as evidenced by a “payment receipt” from Creditor C.  1.i.  Applicant  has  a  past-due  debt  with  Creditor  I  in  the  amount  of  about  $227. Applicant  is  in  the  process  of  making  monthly  payments  of  $20,  for  a  period  of  ten months,  towards  this phone  bill.    As  there  is  no  other  evidence  in  the  record  supporting these payments, it is unclear if she is making said payments. 1.j.  Applicant had a past-due debt with Creditor J in the amount of about $222. She is current with her electricity provider, as evidenced by a current bill from Creditor J.  1.k.  Applicant has a past-due debt with Creditor K in the amount of about $198. In her answer, Applicant refers to her “current Experian credit report.” That credit report shows that said debt is still “past due.”  At her 2 hearing, Applicant avers “It’s paid.” The status of this previously admitted, past-due debt is unclear. 1.l. and  1.m. Applicant had past-due debts to the Department of Veterans Affairs totaling  about  $1,354.  These  debts  are  no  longer  past  due,  as  evidenced  by  the Government’s  most  recent  credit  report.   1.n~1.r. Applicant is indebted to ECMC , for student loans, in an amount totaling about $33,000. Repayment is determined by way of an income-based program; and as such, Applicant is current with her payments.   This  is evidenced by documentation from Navient.  1.s.   Applicant  had  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  S  in  the  amount  of  about  $921. Applicant  successfully  disputed  this  debt;  and  as  such,  This  debt  does  not  appear  on either  the  Government’s  2019  and  2021  credit  reports  ,  nor  on  the Applicant’s 2019 credit reports .  1.t.  Applicant had a past-due debt to Creditor T in the amount of about $3,133. Applicant  successfully  disputed  this  debt;  and  as  such,  her  debt  does  not  appear  on neither  the  Government’s  2019  or  2021  credit  reports  ,  or  on  the Applicant’s 2019 credit report .  This debt is no longer past due. 1.u.~1.x.  Applicant  had  past-due  medical  bills  totaling  about  $492.  Applicant successfully disputed these debts; and as such, these debts do not appear on either the Government’s  2019  and  2021  credit  reports  ,  or  on  the  Applicant’s  2019 credit report .  These debts are no longer past due. 1.y.  Applicant  had  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  Y  in  the  amount  of  about  $635. Applicant successfully disputed this debt, as evidenced by documentation.  This debt is no longer past due. 1.z.  Applicant  had  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  Z  in  the  amount  of  about  $64. Applicant  settled  and  paid  this  debt,  as  evidenced  by  documentation.   This debt is no longer past due. 1.ee  and  1.ff. Applicant filed her Federal and state income tax returns for tax year 2016.  3 