Applicant, through counsel, admitted “with clarification” the sole allegation that he used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  January  1996  to  June  2019.    His  admissions  are  incorporated  or  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Information Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  senior  principal  systems  engineer  employed  by  a defense  contractor  since  June  2019.    He  seeks  a  secret  security clearance  as  a  requirement  of  his  continued  employment.    He previously  held  a  clearance  from  approximately  2000  to  2005  while  employed  by  a previous defense contractor.  Applicant  received  his  high  school  diploma  in  May  1994.  He  was  awarded  a Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  engineering  science  in  December  1998.  Applicant  was awarded a Master of Electrical Engineering degree in June 2003. He has received three patents  and  has  three  patents  pending.    He married in December 2018.  Applicant’s wife is employed as a pediatric dentist at a children’s hospital. At the time of the hearing, Applicant’s wife was expecting their first child.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse Applicant  self-reported  his  drug  use  on  his  September  20,  2019  SF-86,  when applying  for  a  security  clearance  with  his  current  employer.    He was  subsequently  interviewed  on  November  11,  2019,  by  an  Office  of  Personnel Management    investigator  as  part  of  his  background  investigation  regarding  his drug use. None of his drug use occurred while holding a security clearance.  He further  elaborated  on  his  drug  use  in  his  January  29,  2021  SOR  Answer  as  well  as during his testimony. The following summarizes that drug use. SOR  ¶   1.a   alleged   that  Applicant  used   marijuana   with   varying   frequency   from about  January   1996   to   June   2019.   During   his  testimony,  Applicant  clarified   his   past marijuana  use. While  in  college, he  used  marijuana  “probably  half  a  dozen  times  or so.” After college  from  1998  to  2000, Applicant used  marijuana  “once, maybe  twice.”   From  2000  to  2010, he  did “not touch  it at all.” This included  the five-year period  he  held  a  clearance.     From  2010  to  2014, he  used  cannabis in conjunction  with  a  vaporizer he  developed  “maybe  every  two  to  six  months.”    From   2014   to   2019,  Applicant  characterized   his  marijuana   use   as  “maybe   one   or 2 two   puffs,  maybe   every  six   months.  .  .  .  Really   infrequent.”     The   last   time Applicant used  marijuana  was in June  2019  at a  summer gathering. If offered  marijuana today, Applicant credibly  stated,  “I would just walk away. It’s not  part  of my  life.”  Applicant does not use marijuana or cannabis-based products. His prior use was always personal and recreational. He never used marijuana when he previously held a clearance from 2000 to 2005 and does not currently use or intend  to use marijuana or any cannabis-based products in the future.   Applicant reiterated his  commitment  during  his  hearing  that  he  does  not  envision  nor  does  he  have  any intent to use marijuana in the future.  He added that he would not use marijuana in the future even if marijuana were legalized  at  the  Federal  level.  Applicant  explained,  “Fundamentally,  it’s  just  not  who  I am.  It’s  not  part  of  my  life  anymore.”  Applicant  stated,  “And  second  part  is  my  wife, [wife’s  name],  is  from  [South  American  country].  She  is  adamantly  against  marijuana. Her  father  was  an  ex-undercover  detective,  and  her  mother  was  a  judge  in  [South American country]. So she grew up with very strong black-and-white  morals  and  she’s very, very adamant on this subject. So no one would be anywhere near our house using marijuana,  or  anything  else  illegal.”    Applicant  does  not  associate  with anyone who uses marijuana.  Applicant  stated  that  his  marijuana  use  was  never  the  result  of  a  medical prescription, nor for self-medication. He has never been referred to drug counseling for his past marijuana use. Applicant further stated that he does not now, nor has he ever, struggled with addiction for any illegal substance, including cannabis. He has never had a positive drug test. In his SOR Answer and during his hearing, Applicant submitted two separate signed statements of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of  national  security  eligibility.    Applicant submitted  three  negative  drug  tests,  one  test  collected  on  January  25,  2021,  and  two tests collected on June 10, 2021.  Applicant  also  submitted  a  comprehensive  drug  and  alcohol  assessment  dated June  20,  2021,  from  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker,  certified  substance  abuse counselor,  and  masters  addiction  professional  and licensed  substance  abuse professional.  She  concluded  that  Applicant  “is  not  at  risk  of  relapse  or  return  to  his previous behavior. [Applicant] is fully capable of safeguarding classified information and [she] find[s] him fit for duty in a position affecting the national security.”  Character Evidence Applicant  submitted  five  reference  letters  from  individuals  who  know  Applicant well. Two of those references are former work colleagues and one is a former neighbor. One  reference  is  his  current  supervisor,  and  one  reference  is  his  wife.  Four  of Applicant’s references are familiar with DoD security clearance regulations and policies. All references are familiar  with the nature of the allegations against Applicant and fully 3 support him. Applicant’s 2020 performance evaluation documents superior performance and his contribution to the national defense.  Applicant’s former colleagues and  current supervisor  corroborated  the  positive  performance  evaluation  comments in  their reference  letters.    Applicant  submitted  current photographs of his wife and him.  