Applicant  is  26  years  old  and  married  with  two  children.  He  has  a  high  school education,  and  is  currently  attending  college.  Applicant  is  employed  by  a  defense contractor  as  a  Machinist  and  is  trying  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  relation  to  his employment.  Applicant  has  not  previously  held  a  security  clearance.   Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance therefore  potentially  unreliable, because  he untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. financially  overextended  and is The SOR alleged that Applicant had three past-due debts, including an automobile repossession,  totaling  $21,545  .  Applicant  admitted  all  the allegations in the SOR. The existence and amounts of these debts is supported by credit reports dated September 7, 2019; February 4, 2020; April 28, 2021; and September 9, 2021.  Applicant stated that these debts all arose in the 2017 time-frame. He was fired from a job and found himself unable to keep up with those particular debts at that time.  The current status of the allegations in the SOR is as follows: 1.a. Applicant admitted having an automobile repossessed in approximately 2017. He stated that he could afford the car when he bought it, but after he was fired, it was impossible to keep up payments. Eventually he let the car go to repossession. After the automobile  was  sold  at  auction  Applicant  owed  $18,000.  Subsequent  to  the  hearing 2 Applicant reached a payment arrangement with the original creditor. He paid the reduced amount on October 26, 2021, as confirmed by documentation from the creditor. This debt is resolved.  1.b.   Applicant  admitted  owing  a  past-due  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of approximately $3,775. This debt also arose in the 2017 time-frame. Subsequent to the hearing  Applicant  paid  this  creditor  the  full  amount  owed  on  October  26,  2021,  as confirmed by documentation from the creditor. This debt is resolved.  1.c. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $643 for a charged-off debt. This debt also arose in the 2017 time-frame. Subsequent to the hearing Applicant paid this creditor the full amount owed on October 26, 2021, as confirmed by documentation from the creditor. This debt is resolved.  Applicant stated that his current financial situation is stable. He is able to pay his current  debts  and  also  has  a  rainy-day  fund.  He  stated,  “I  strongly  believe  that  I  have learned  from  my  mistakes  and  believe  that  allowing  accounts  to  become  neglected  & delinquent  is  a  thing  of  the  past.”  The  credit  reports  in  the  record  confirm  that  fact. Applicant also pointed to the fact that the period of delinquency was limited, and he has had no past-due debts since that time. Finally, Applicant stated that his failure to resolve these debts earlier “was pure immaturity and misguidance from people that are close to me.”  