Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and material findings. Additional findings follow. Background Applicant  married  his  former  coworker  in  October  2021  following  a  dating relationship that began in 2020.  He has one child  from  a  prior  relationship,  who  resides  with  his  mother.    While Applicant has not seen his son in 10 years , he has stayed in contact with him 2 and  continues  to  provide  financial  support  to  him.    Applicant  averred  that  his son enlisted in the Marine Corps following his high school graduation.  Applicant earned his high school diploma in June 2003 and has earned several certifications  in  the  IT  field  since  graduating  from  high  school.    He attended  college  classes,  beginning  in  September  2019,  and  recently  earned  a bachelor’s  degree  in  network  security    Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Army  in September  2003  and  served  one  month  of  active  duty  before  being  discharged  under the Army’s early separation guidelines.  Since  September 2015, Applicant has been  employed  by  his current  employer as a  senior system  administrator and  more recently  as a  cloud  compliance  lead.    For   the   past   eight  years,  he   has   been   involved   professionally   in  the   information technology     field.  Between   June   2005   and   September  2015,  Applicant  worked   for other non-defense  employers in various jobs.  Applicant’s alcohol consumption and arrest-history Applicant  was  introduced  to  alcohol  at  the  age  15  .   Alcoholism  runs  in  his  family.    From  ages  18  to  22,  he  regularly  consumed alcohol socially  and often drank to a level of intoxication in social situations with co-workers and friends on weekends.  Between September 2011 and November 2018, Applicant was involved in three- alcohol-related incidents.  In September 2011, after hanging out and drinking with a friend at a party, he was stopped by police for a cited inoperable license plate.  After administering a field sobriety test of Applicant, the officer  arrested  Applicant  and  charged  him  with  DUI,  DUI  per  se,  and  driving  while impaired  by  alcohol.  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI  per  se  and  received  probation.   His  probation  conditions  included  a  requirement  that  he  complete  an alcohol substance abuse class.  Following  his  2011  DUI  incident,  Applicant  ceased  drinking  for  approximately three  years  before  resuming  his  consumption,  mostly  in  social  situations.   In February 2017, Applicant had consumed alcohol socially with friends to the  point  of  intoxication  before  driving  home  .  While  driving  at  a  high  rate  of speed, he  was stopped  by a  police  officer who  noticed  Applicant’s tires were spinning.   Noting  a  strong  smell  of  alcohol  on  Applicant’s  breath,  in  addition  to  glassy, bloodshot  eyes,  the  officer  administered  standard  field  sobriety  tests  on  Applicant. Citing  Applicant’s  test  failures,  the  officer  administered  a  preliminary  breath  test.  Test results  produced  a  blood  alcohol content   percentage  of  .14 per cent.  Based on these  test  results,  the  officer  arrested  and  charged  Applicant  with  DUI,  DUI  per  se, driving  while  impaired  by  alcohol,  and  driving  while  so  far  impaired  by  alcohol  that  he could not drive safely.  Appearing in court on his 2017 DUI charges, Applicant pleaded guilty to DUI per se  and  was  sentenced  to,  inter alia,  four days  of  confinement,  and  payment  of  a  fine. 3 . Following  his DUI  incident,  Applicant  abstained from  alcohol  for a  year  before resuming his alcohol consumption in 2018.  In   November   2018,   Applicant   was  arrested   and   charged   with   DUI  and   other alcohol-related   charges  after  being   questioned   at  the   scene   of   an   accident  involving Applicant.  . Before  leaving  a  restaurant for home, Applicant consumed three beers and two martinis with friends without feeling intoxicated.  Arrest  reports  confirm  that Applicant declined  to  take  a  sobriety  test at the  scene and   was  arrested   and   charged   with   four  related   counts   of  DUI.    At  the request  of  arresting   police   at   the   scene,   Applicant  was  escorted   home   by   a   neighbor.   In  court, Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI in January  2019  and  was sentenced  to, inter alia, two  years of confinement , mandatory  outpatient alcohol treatment,  and  probation through  August 2021.  In compliance with his 2018 DUI treatment requirements, Applicant enrolled in an outpatient alcohol counseling and treatment program in January 2019.  While his treatment  counselors did  not  diagnose  him  with  any  form  of  alcohol  disorder,  they  did recommend his enrollment in Alcoholics Anonymous , and abstain from drinking for the duration of  the program.   The program ran for 26  weeks over a  six- month  period  ,  during  which  time  Applicant  abstained  from  all  alcoholic beverages.    Applicant  successfully  completed  his  26-week  alcohol treatment  program  in  September  2019.  .  His  program  counselors  credited  him with consistent attendance and active, significant, and introspective group participation.  During  his  2019  counseling  and  treatment  program,  he  was  administered  three random drug screens, all of which returned negative results in every drug classification . To reinforce his lifestyle changes and the need for total abstinence, his program counselors recommended weekly support meetings for a minimum of three months  following  his  discharge.    Applicant  accepted  and  complied  with  the program’s abstinence recommendations and weekly support meetings and was credited with successfully completing the program in September 2019.  Following   his  enrollment   in  his  26-week  outpatient   program   in   January   2019, Applicant essentially  abstained from  alcohol. While he  was not recommended  to  abstain from   alcohol  entirely   by   the   substance   abuse   counselor  he   consulted   with   in  a   post- discharge   counseling  session   in September 2021,  she   did   enter   a  10-point  score from the   Michigan   Alcohol   Screening   Test    she   administered   to   Applicant   in  her counseling  session  with  him.  His counselor was able to  neutralize  this high  point  score by   characterizing   it  as   a   reflection   of  his   past  DUI  incidents  that  did  not   necessarily correlate  with  the  abstinence  he  practiced  since  his  las  DUI incident  in 2018.     Crediting   Applicant   with   over  two   years  of  sustained   abstinence,   his   counselor assigned   a   positive   prognosis  to   Applicant’s  ability   to   keep   his  alcohol  consumption under control.  Since  his  2018  DUI  incident,  Applicant  he  has  consumed  alcohol  on  only  two occasions: once in  January 2019 and  once in a toast at his wedding  in October 2021. 4  He has attended AA meetings regularly between January 2019 and August 2021, and with the support of his spouse and support groups , he has maintained his sobriety .  Further,  since  his  last  DUI  incident  in  2018,  Applicant  has  not  been  involved  in any  alcohol-related  incidents  or  abused  alcohol  in  any  way.  Corroborating  his abstinence  assurances  are  negative  screen  results  from  three  non-randomized  drug and alcohol screens conducted in August and September 2021, respectively.  Endorsements and awards Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  supervisors  ,  family,  and friends  who  know  him  ,  and  are  aware  of  his  prior  DUI incidents.   AEs  B  and  G;  Tr. 45-46)  None  of  his  references  have  seen  him intoxicated, either at work or in non-work situations.  Uniformly, they credited him with an exceptional work ethic, trustworthiness, and reliability in the performance of his  work  responsibilities.    Applicant  is  credited  with  receiving promotions in recognition of his exceptional contributions and demonstrated strong work ethic.    All  of  Applicant’s  supervisors,  spouse,  and  colleagues,  past  and present,  believe  that  Applicant  possesses  the  level  of  honesty,  trustworthiness, reliability, and judgment requisite for holding a position of trust. 