In  Applicant’s  answer to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations in  SOR ¶¶  1.b  and 2.a  in  part and  3.a-3.g, with  explanations. His  admissions in his  answer and  at the  hearing are incorporated in  my findings of  fact. Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  manufacturing  technician  employed  by  defense contractors since February 2014. He has held a security clearance since August 2004. He earned a bachelor’s degree in June 2016. He has been married since December 2009 and has an 11-year-old son and two stepchildren, ages 20 and 16, who live with him and his wife.  Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps while in high school and served on active duty, including two tours of duty in a combat zone, from August 2004 to February 2013, when he received a dishonorable discharge.  Criminal Conduct, cross-alleged as Personal Conduct . The  SOR  alleges  that  an  allegation  of  child  physical  abuse  was  substantiated against Applicant based on unexplained injuries inflicted on the child between August and December 2010  .  It  also  alleges  that  he  was  convicted  by  court-martial for aggravated assault and child endangerment in December 2012  after his ten-month-old son suffered severe immersion burns in August 2011 while in his care . In December 2010, Applicant and his wife took their infant son to a doctor for a scratched palate. Their son was two months old at the time. The doctor found no problem with the palate but found signs of a fractured rib. Further examination  found signs of a fractured  clavicle  and  possible  deformity  of  the  distal  femur.  The  doctor  reported  his findings  to  the  local  civilian  child  protection  service,  who  in  turn  reported  them  to  the military  family  advocacy  program  .  The  FAP  Incident  Determination  Committee 2 concluded that the incident met the criteria for entering a determination of child physical abuse in the DOD Central Registry database.  Applicant claimed he did not know how his son’s injuries could have occurred. His wife declined to be interviewed.  Applicant was not sure whether his mother-in-law was interviewed.  The FAP investigation could not determine who caused the injuries. The baby was removed from the home and placed with Applicant’s sister-in-law. The FAP Clinical  Counseling  Service  recommended  multiple  counseling  programs,  workshops, and support programs for Applicant and his wife if the allegations of child physical abuse were confirmed. The Clinical Counseling Service determined that the risk of future abuse was  low  and  that  the  recommendation  for  the  various  programs  was  made  to  further reduce the level of risk.  The child was returned to the home in June 2011, when  Applicant  was  reassigned  to  another  location.  The  FAP  at  his  new  duty  station received  an  email  from  the  previous  FAP  stating  that  Applicant  had  completed  his treatment plan and the case was being closed.  The record does not reflect what his treatment plan required. The FAP at his new duty station closed the case without further action.  In August 2011, Applicant’s son  suffered severe scalding burns covering 35% of his body while in a bathtub of hot water. Applicant had decided to bathe his son while his wife was taking a nap. He placed his son in the bathtub, turned on the water with his son sitting  in  the  tub  with  his  back  to  the  faucet.  He  left  the  water  run  for  a  few  minutes, touched it about three times to check the temperature, and then stepped away for 30-45 seconds, facing away from his son, to retrieve soap from the vanity.  He heard his son whimper, and he turned around and saw his son on his back, screaming, squirming and trying to get up. When he took his son out of the tub, the water was very hot, and the skin on his son’s back and arms was blistered. He immediately called 911 and reported that his  son  had  been  burned  and  that  his  skin  was  peeling.    The  NCIS determined that that the hot water temperature in Applicant’s home was 145.9  degrees instead of the customary 130 degrees.  After Applicant’s son received skin grafts and was released from the hospital, he was placed  in the  custody  of  Applicant’s mother-in-law. A military protective order was issued, limiting Applicant’s contact with his children.  Applicant was required to move into the barracks, where he remained until his court-martial in December 2012.  Applicant  was  charged  with  four  specifications  of  assault  consummated  by  a battery on a child, in violation of Article 128, Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. § 928, and five specifications of child endangerment by culpable negligence, in violation of Article 134, UCMJ, 10 U.S. C. § 934. He was tried by general court-martial in December 2012.  He  was  found  not  guilty  of  all  four  specifications  of  assault  consummated  by  a battery on a child and not guilty of four of the five specifications of child endangerment. He was convicted of one specification of child endangerment by culpable negligence. The maximum punishment prescribed for child endangerment in the 2008 version of Manual for  Courts-Martial    was  a 3 dishonorable  discharge,  forfeiture  of  all  pay  and  allowances,  and  confinement  for  two years. He was sentenced to a dishonorable discharge and confinement for 60 days. He was released from confinement after serving 30 days. Applicant  testified  that  his  son  is  receiving  reconstructive  surgery,  but  not  any mental-health counseling. He testified that he and his wife received  “a lot  of  training or counseling” while their son was in the custody of his mother-in-law, but nothing after the family was reunited.  Financial Considerations The  SOR  alleges  seven  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $16,793.  The  debts alleged  in  the  SOR  are  reflected  in  credit  reports  from  December  2018  and  February 2020, as well as three credit reports from December 2021 submitted by Applicant after the hearing  Applicant  was  unemployed  for  about  two  months  after  being  discharged  in February 2013. He worked at minimum-wage jobs as a cashier in a supermarket and in a  gas  station  from  April  2013  to  February  2014,  when  he  was  hired  by  his  current employer.  He, his wife, his stepchildren, and his son all lived with his mother-in-law, because they had no savings and could not afford to find a place to live.  Applicant  hired  a  law  firm  in  February  2019  to  negotiate  with  creditors  and  to remove incorrect information from his credit reports.  He provided copies of two letters prepared for him by his law firm and sent to one of the credit bureaus and 27 letters sent to the creditors alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.c-3.g. The letters request verification of the debts. All letters were sent before the SOR was issued.  The evidence concerning the debts alleged in the SOR is summarized below. SOR ¶  3.a:  collection account  for $8,163.  During a personal subject interview  in April 2019, Applicant told the investigator that he was unaware of this account when he submitted his SCA, and he did not know anything about it.  It was sold to a factoring company in August 2016. The original creditor is an on-line bank.  In May 2019, July 2019, September 2019, and November 2019, Applicant sent letters to  collection agency reflected  in the December 2018  credit report  disputing  the  validity  of  the  debt.    There  is  no  evidence  of  a response  to  his  letters,  but  the  February  2020  credit  report  reflects  that  the  debt  is disputed.  It is not resolved.  SOR  ¶   3.b:   credit-card  account   charged  off  for  $3,892.  During  the  PSI, Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  failed  to  disclose  this  debt  in  his  SCA  due  an oversight. He used the credit card for living expenses and fell behind on his payments after his dishonorable discharge from the Marine Corps.  This account was closed at his request and settled for the full balance.  4 SOR  ¶   3.c:   collection  account   for  $1,294.  During  the  PSI,  Applicant  told  the investigator that he thought this debt was for a credit card.  The December 2018 credit report reflects that the current creditor is a factoring company, and the account is being collected by the same collection agency as the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 3.a. It was included in the dispute letters for the debt in SOR ¶ 3.a.  There is no evidence of a response to his letters, but the February 2020 credit report reflects that the debt is disputed.  It is not resolved.  SOR  ¶   3.d:   credit-card  account   charged  off  for  $1,095.   During  the  PSI, Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  failed  to  disclose  this  debt  in  his  SCA  due  to oversight, and that he fell behind on his payments in 2016 due to low income.  The debt was charged off in February 2018.  Applicant sent letters to this creditor  in  August  2019,  October  2019,  and  March  2020,  disputing  this  debt  as “suspicious,”  and  claiming  a  possible  violation  of  the  Servicemembers  Civil  Relief  Act.  There is no evidence of a response to his letters, but the February 2020 credit report reflects that the debt is disputed.  It is not resolved.  SOR ¶  3.e:  unsecured loan charged off for  $607. During the PSI, Applicant told the investigator that he used this loan to pay household expenses and medical expenses for his children, and that he fell behind on his payments in 2018 due to low income.  This debt was settled for less than the full amount in April 2020.  SOR ¶  3.f:  department-store  charge  account  placed for collection of  $764. In the PSI, Applicant was not able to provide any information about this debt. The December 2018 credit report reflects that the debt is held by a factoring company and was referred for collection in June 2017.  Applicant sent letters disputing the validity of this debt in March 2019, May 2019, June 2019, August 2019, October 2019, December 2019, and February 2020.  There is no evidence of a response to his letters, but the debt is not reflected in the February 2020 credit report or the December 2021 credit report.  SOR ¶ 3.g: mail-order debt placed for collection of $764. In the PSI, Applicant was unable to provide any information about this debt.  The December 2018 credit report reflects that this account was closed in July 2017 and purchased by another lender.  Applicant sent letters disputing this account in April 2019, June 2019, July 2019, and September 2019.  There is no evidence of a response to his letters, but the debt is not reflected in the February 2020 credit report or the December 2021 credit report.  Applicant’s wife is not employed outside the home. Applicant earns about $73,000 per  year.  He  volunteered  for  a  four-month  assignment  overseas  to  earn  additional income.  Based on his first four-year enlistment in the Marine Corps, he was able to use his educational benefits to obtain his college degree. 5 In addition to hiring a law firm to assist him, Applicant has educated himself about budgeting and financial management.  He has adopted a “snowball” method of accumulating funds to pay off or settle debts.  His recent credit reports reflect that he has a total of nine credit cards and charge cards, and he has a zero balance on eight and only a total of $19 in credit-card debt.  Applicant  qualified  for  a  Department  of  Veterans’  Affairs  loan  and  purchased  a home. His monthly payment on his home mortgage loan is $1,375, and it is current.  He drives an 11-year-old car that is paid off.  His wife drives a 2017 car that they purchased in 2020. The monthly payment on her car is $273 and it is current.  Character Evidence Applicant’s pastor, who has known him and his family since 2014, describes him as “authentic, sensitive, friendly, honest, reliable, and always willing to help others.” He considers  Applicant  a  great  role  model  for  his  son  and  two  stepsons  and  a  faithful husband.  The record does not reflect whether Applicant’s pastor is aware of the allegations of criminal conduct. Applicant’s  mother-in-law  had  custody  of  Applicant’s  son  after  the  August  2011 incident.  She  considers  Applicant  to  be  honest,  conscientious,  polite,  and  a  “family person.” She considers his integrity to be above reproach.  Applicant’s first-line supervisor describes him as “extremely accountable, punctual, respectful,  quick-learning,  and  an  all-around  pleasure  to  work  with.”  He  has  a  positive attitude and demonstrates how much he cares about his work and helping others.  In  July  2021, he  evaluated  Applicant as a  “total team  player”  who  is “continuing  to grow  as  a  technician  as  well  as  a  leader.”    He  nominated  Applicant  for  two achievement awards in December 2021.  Applicant’s team was recognized for exceptional performance in April 2017, July 2018, December 2019, December 2020, and  November  2021.    He  received  pay  raises  in  2019  and  2020, increasing his base pay from $56,000 to $73,986.  