Applicant initially admitted to SOR allegation ¶ 1.a. but later disputed and denied it. He also denied all the remaining allegations in the SOR. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 41-years-old, and is seeking employment with a defense contractor.  He is unmarried, and has no children.  Applicant attributes the alleged, past-financial difficulties to brief periods  of  unemployment.    In  October  0f 2021,  he  completed  a credit  counseling course.   Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant now  denies an  alleged  past-due  debt to  Creditor A  in the  amount of  about $14,670, as  the  result of a  vehicle  accident.  His car “was totaled, .  . .  [and]  the insurance  .  .  . had  paid  off  the  car”  loan.  This testimony   is  supported   by   documentation   from   Creditor  A   showing   the   “Amount Reaming” as “$0.”  This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.b. and  1,c.  Applicant  denies that he  has past-due  student  loans  totaling  about $10,986.  This testimony  is supported  by  credit reports submitted  by  both  the  Government  and  Applicant,  which show  he  is current with his student loans.   These  allegations are  found  for Applicant. 1.d.   Applicant   denies   an   alleged   past-due   debt   to   Creditor   D  in   the   amount  of about $326.   This  testimony  is supported  by documentation  from  Creditor D showing  that this loan  “has been  paid in full.”  This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.e.  Applicant  denies   an   alleged   past-due  debt  to   Creditor  E   in  the   amount  of about $1,477.  This testimony  is supported  by documentation   from   Creditor E   showing   “no  record” in   Creditor   E’s   “system” related   to Applicant.  This allegation is found  for Applicant. 1.f.   Applicant   denies   an   alleged   past-due   debt   to   Creditor   F  in   the   amount  of about $260.  This testimony  is supported  by  documentation from  Creditor F confirming   “final payment,” and   that the  account   “is paid   in full.”   This allegation is found  for Applicant. 2 Guideline E  - Personal Conduct 2.a.  Applicant  denies  any   falsification   of   his  December  2018   Electronic Questionnaires   for  Investigations  Processing     as  it  relates  to   Section   26   and enquires as  to  financial delinquencies in  the  last seven  years.  As noted  above,  in the  findings for allegations 1.a.~1.f., Applicant was unaware of any past-due indebtedness when he executed his e- QIP,  and,  in   fact,   he   has   no   past-due   indebtedness.   This  allegation   is  found   for Applicant. 