Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d  and  denied  the allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is   41   years  old.   He   earned   an   associate’s   degree   and   is  attending college.  He  needs  to   complete   five   classes   to   be   awarded   a   bachelor’s  degree.   He married  in  2013  and  has two  grown  stepchildren. He  enlisted  in the  Army  Reserve  in July 2014  and  is a  sergeant  . He has been  employed  by  a  federal contractor since  2017. He has no periods of unemployment and  has  worked since he was 16 years old.   After graduating from high school in 1998, Applicant attended college, but quit for periods of  time to take care of his  grandmother and later his mother. His grandmother passed  away  in  2015  and  his  mother  in  2019.  He  funded  his  college  education  with student loans.  Applicant’s annual income is about $55,000. He estimated from his Army Reserve training he earns about $3,000 annually. His wife is employed with a state agency and earns about $31,000.  Applicant explained that in approximately 2016 his wife had medical issues that required surgery and she was out of work. She received disability payments, but it was insufficient for them to continue to pay all of their expenses, and they fell behind. Applicant started a new job in 2017, and he was able to address bills that had fallen behind. His wife also resumed work. They made double payments to catch-up on bills. He testified that the creditors agreed to accept his payments to resolve his debts.  Credit  reports  from  April  2019  and  January  2020  and  admissions  during Applicant’s  background  interview  with  a  government  investigator  corroborate  the  SOR allegations.  The  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  is  a  charged-off  car  loan  .  Applicant testified after he got behind paying this loan, he contacted the creditor and it agreed to accept payments. He said he was making three payments a month, and he was able to place the debt in good standing, but it still showed as charged  off on his credit report. Applicant provided documents to show the debt has been paid in full. The debt is resolved.  2 The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b  is from Applicant’s credit union account. He believed that there was some type of glitch and a bill did not get paid through his account and perhaps this was an overdraft. When he learned of the problem, he resolved it with the credit union. He provided documents to show that his accounts with this credit union are in good standing. This debt is resolved.  The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d  are delinquent student loans.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  paying  one  student  loan  and  did  not  realize  that there were actually two of  them. He contacted the creditor to have them consolidated. Applicant provided documents to show he had been making payments on a student loan since  2016.  He  also  provided  a  document  from  the  Department  of  Education  from December  2020  confirming  a  repayment  plan  agreement.  He  is  required  to  pay  $179 monthly. He provided documents showing payments. His student loans are now deferred because of the pandemic. He testified that he is making sure his finances are in order for when  payments  resume.  He  hoped  to  restart  paying  the  loans  before  the  deferment expired.  Applicant  is  participating   in  a   program   through   the   military   that  assists  him   in repaying   his  student   loans.   The   total  amount  he   is  eligible   to   receive   is  $30,000.   By contracting  to  serve  three  more years in the  Army  Reserve, he  became  eligible  to  receive $20,000. He reenlisted to serve six  years. The  $20,000 payment is  applied directly to  his student  loan  balance.  Applicant completed  his first enlistment  and  the  loan  repayment  will be paid during  his current enlistment. He testified that he has applied  for it and is waiting for it to  be  disbursed. He is also eligible  to  receive  another $10,000 in  the future  after he completes  the  term  of his enlistment.  He provided  the  corroborating  documents.   In  2019,  Applicant  applied  for  a  public  service  loan  forgiveness  employment program. It requires that he make consistent student loan payments for ten years at which time  the  balance  of  his  student  loans  will be  forgiven.  He  qualifies through  his military service. The payments are stayed during the pandemic deferment period. Applicant must have  his  public  service  employment  recertified  by  his  employer  each  year.  Applicant provided corroborating documents.  Applicant  has  had   a   part-time   job   since   2019   to   increase   his  income   and   pay unexpected  expenses.  He works about 20-25  hours a  week.  He and  his wife  purchased a house in February 2021. He credibly testified  that he can  afford  all of his expenses. He contributes to  a  401  pension  plan  and  has  some  money  in  savings. He and  his wife maintain a  written  budget.  Most of their  bills are paid  automatically  each  month.  