Applicant is a 50-year-old logistics planner of a defense contractor who seeks a. security  clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference. Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant  married   in   July   2000   and   divorced   in  September  2012.   She  has two  children  from  this marriage,  ages 18  and  20.   Applicant 2 earned  an  associate’s  degree  from  an  international business  college  in  October 2017.  She reported no military service. Since  May  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer  as  a logistics planner.  Previously, she worked for other employers in various types  of  customer  service  and  clerical  positions.    She  reported  unemployment between October 2015 and April 2016.  Applicant’s finances In April 2013, Applicant purchased a vehicle for a little over $15,000, according to her  October  2019  credit  report.    She  estimates  to  have  made  about  nine payments on her car loan before she began encountering difficulties in making her car payments.    Once  her  hours  were  reduced  by  her  employer,  she  found  she could no longer afford the vehicle.  Still,  applicant  continued  to  make  her  car  payments  and  tried  to  work  out  a payment  plan  with  the  lender  in 2013  that  would  reduce  her car payments  and  permit her to keep the car.  Told that her only option was to turn in the car if she could not make the payments, she consented to  having her car picked up by the lender.  Thereafter, she was never told of the vehicle’s sale, or that she still owed money to  the  vendor.  She  has had no  contact  with  the  vendor since  she  returned the  vehicle.    The  estimated  deficiency  balance  on  the  returned  vehicle  was $15,060.  Besides  Applicant’s  SOR  creditor  1.a  vehicle  debt,  Applicant  accumulated several  medical  debts  that  are  reported  by her  creditors as  delinquent.   The reported  debts  are  covered  by  SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.e  as  follows:  1.b  ;  1.c  , 1.d , and 1.e . Applicant acknowledged the SOR 1.b debt  as  a  debt  she  incurred  in  connection  with  an  emergency  procedure  her  daughter underwent  in  2018.    She  believes  the  debt  was  covered  by  her medical  insurance  carrier  ,  but  is  not  sure whether the bill was ever paid by either carrier.  The listed medical debt is not listed in her most recent August 2021 credit report.  The remaining two medical debts listed in the SOR  were never billed  to  Applicant,  and  she  does  not  know  whether  they  were  ever  paid  by  her insurance carrier.   A final debt  listed  in  the SOR is a reported utility debt in the amount of $372.  Applicant cannot account for this debt, and she assured that she has never had a cable or similar service account.  Her explanations are credible and accepted. Applicant explained that her listed SOR debts are not the result of overspending, but due to her loss of income.  She is currently stable with her finances.  She  reported  net income  of $3,000  a  month  and  monthly  expenses of $800.   She   retains  $3,500   in  a   savings  account  and   does  not  have   any   open   credit  card accounts.  Endorsements  and awards Applicant is well regarded by friends and colleagues who have worked with her.  Uniformly, they consider her to be honest and trustworthy. They credit her with considerable contributions to her employer and her community. Senior  colleagues  with  her  employer  confirm  her  unique  display  of  ability  to identify and solve problems and credit her with being a valuable asset to her company.   Her  credited  contributions  to  her  community  include  raising  donations  for  her local school to aid a teacher in need of school supplies for her students.  