Under Guideline  H,  the  Government  alleged that  Applicant  used marijuana  with varying  frequency  between  June  2012  and  February  2018,  at  times  while  holding  a security  clearance  ;  and  that  he  used  cocaine  in  about  March  2016  while holding  a  security  clearance  .  In  response,  Applicant  admitted,  with explanations, both of the SOR allegations . In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 38 years old and has worked for a defense contractor since November 2018 in a position that requires eligibility for a security clearance. He  served on active duty  in  the  U.S.  military  between  June  2006  and  June  2016,  when  he  received  an honorable discharge. Applicant first received a security clearance after completing basic training in 2006. Applicant was married between 2007 and 2012, when he and his ex-wife divorced. He has no children.  In his e-QIP, Applicant disclosed that he smoked or ingested marijuana, once in June 2012 and once in February 2018. He also listed that he used cocaine once in March 2016. He discussed those disclosures with a government investigator during a personal subject  interview    on  January  22,  2019.  In  a  February  3,  2020,  response  to interrogatories  about his use of illegal drugs, Applicant disclosed that in August or 2 September 2016, he used marijuana, an event he had not recalled when he completed his e-QIP or during his PSI. He also disclosed in the RTI that in 2017, he unintentionally ingested  an  illegal  drug  when  he  ate  a  brownie  he  did  not  know  contained tetrahydrocannabinol  ,  the  active  psychoactive  ingredient  in  marijuana.   Applicant’s first use of marijuana occurred while he was on extended military leave during a permanent change of stations  in June 2012. He was at an outdoor bar and had consumed too much alcohol when he accepted an invitation to smoke marijuana. Applicant was on active duty with an active security clearance.  In March 2016, Applicant was at a bachelor party in Las Vegas with some friends he had known most of his life. Everyone, including Applicant, was drinking, gambling, and having a good time. Someone at the party produced cocaine and Applicant tried some. It is the  only time  he  has  used  cocaine.  Applicant  was  still on  active  duty with  an  active security clearance.  In late summer 2016, after his discharge from the military, but while his security clearance was likely still active, Applicant was at another bachelor party. When some of the attendees started smoking marijuana, Applicant used the drug when it was offered. Again, he had consumed a lot of alcohol during the party.  In 2017, after Applicant’s discharge, he  worked with a longtime friend repairing, renovating, and flipping houses. One day he went to his friend’s brother’s house to check on a repair. He was hungry when he got there, and helped himself to some brownies that were left out in the kitchen. He did not know the brownies contained THC until he felt odd not long after eating one of them.  In  February  2018,  Applicant  received  in  the  mail  a  bag  of  between  10  and  20 gummy  candies  with  THC  in  them  .  They  were  sent,  with  Applicant’s knowledge and approval, by a friend he served with in the military. That person lived in a state where marijuana is legal under certain conditions. Applicant did not consider that this conduct -- possessing or using THC -- might be illegal where he lived. Applicant ate one or two of the gummies before giving the rest away.  After  Applicant  left  the  military,  he  worked  in  a  variety  of  jobs,  none  of  which required  a  security  clearance.  When  he  received  the  THC  gummies  in  2018,  he  was working at a civilian power plant. Later in 2018, he was hired by a temporary personnel company for work at the same government facility and on the same project for which his current employer hired him in November 2018.  