Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a and denied the allegations in ¶¶ 1.b through 1.k. I adopt his admission as a finding of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 53 years old. He attended college, but did not graduate. He married in 2007  and  has  a  grown  stepdaughter.  He  served  in  the  military  reserves  and  National Guard at various times from 1986 to 2003, and was on active duty from 1997 to 2003. He participated in combat operations in Kosovo, Iraq and Afghanistan. He has worked as a federal  contractor  overseas  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan  in  combat  zones.  He  has  been employed with his present employer since December 2017.  Applicant  attributes  his  financial  difficulties  to  a  period  of  unemployment  and underemployment.  In  2013,  he  was  laid  off  from  his  well-paying  job  .    He  was  unemployed  from  October  2013  through  2014.  He  used  his savings to pay his expenses. He decided to go back to school in February 2014 to October 2014  to  obtain  certifications  that  would  help  him  get  a  good  job.  He  used  the  military education benefits he had earned that paid his tuition and a stipend. He also worked part- time. In an attempt to pay his bills, in 2014, he started a business, but it failed. Applicant filed Chapter 13 bankruptcy in October 2014, but it was dismissed in 2015 because he was  unable  to  make  the  required  payments.  He  was  able  to  get  another  overseas contractor job in mid-2015.  Applicant’s admissions  in his  security  clearance  application,  interrogatories, and credit reports from September 2019, September 2020, and September 2021 corroborate the allegations in the SOR.  After Applicant got a defense contractor job overseas, the salary was insufficient to pay his past bills. He attempted to negotiate with his creditors to pay his bills, but it was logistically  difficult  due  to  living  overseas,  time  differences,  and  being  unable  to  make contact. In 2018, he attempted to file Chapter 13 bankruptcy again, but was told he earned too much. He was saving money while overseas. He then contracted with a debt relief company  in March 2018 to help him resolve his delinquent debts. He paid them a  lump-sum  payment  of  $6,000  to  begin  addressing  both  his  unsecured  and  secured debts. The DRC would take a percentage of the amount the debt was settled for and a monthly  fee.  Although  the  DRC  was  helping  him  settle  his  debts,  he  stated  that  he reached a level of frustration with them because he felt like they were procrastinating in settling his debts so they could continue to receive fees.  Applicant  testified  that  the  DRC  did  not  inform  him  until  2022  that  it  would  not negotiate settlements on  secured debts. The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a    is a  secured debt. He explained that the DRC had the debt for more than three years and did nothing. 2 He contacted the creditor and arranged a payment plan to make three monthly payments of  $1,233  beginning  in  May  2022.  He  provided  proof  of  the  agreement  and  the  first payment he made was $1,502. The debt is being resolved.  Applicant provided proof that he has paid the following debts directly, they were settled through the DRC, or he is making payments through a payment plan. SOR ¶¶ 1.b  and  1.g  - same  creditor , paid.  SOR ¶ 1.c    settling for $3,396, monthly payments of  $283.   SOR ¶ 1.d  secured debt. Paid settlement of deficiency balance .  SOR ¶ 1.e  settled in full.  SOR  ¶¶   1.f  and   1.i  –same   creditor  - settled  accounts  through  DRC and  received  IRS  forms  1099C-cancelation of  debt for amount  not  paid,  and  the  forms were filed  with  tax  returns  SOR ¶ 1.h  paid.  SOR 1.j  paid.  SOR 1.k  paid.  Applicant testified that he tried various options to resolve his delinquent debt and did not ignore his financial responsibilities. Before he was laid off in 2013, he did not have financial  problems.  Applicant  does  not  have  any  new  delinquent  debt.  He  pays  his expenses on time. He files his income tax returns on time. He testified that he participated in  financial  counseling  in  2019.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  intends  to  complete  the payment plans he has arranged.  Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  his  resume  and  excellent  performance  reviews. Letters of recommendation describe him as knowledgeable, selfless, trustworthy, and a team player.  