In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted most of the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e.  He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 38-year-old deputy program manager for a Defense contractor.  In 2002, he graduated from high school.  In 2006, he received a bachelor’s degree in business.  He has a master’s degree in aeronautical science and a project management professional certification.  He has been married for eight years, and his children are ages seven and four years old.  His father is a retired Air Force officer, and both of his grandfathers served in the military.  His resume provides details of his professional training and experience.  He has held a security clearance continuously since he was age 18.  Applicant  was  commissioned  through  ROTC  in  the  Air  Force  as  a  second lieutenant.  He successfully completed pilot training and was assigned to fly KC-10s, which are large air-to-air refuelers about the size of a 747.  He successfully  completed  survival  training.    He  completed  three  combat-zone deployments as a copilot and one combat-zone deployment as an aircraft commander. 2 He  has  more  than  1,000  combat-flight  hours.    Some  of  the  flights  were dangerous because of flying in bad weather with old aircraft.  Once during a flight, his aircraft caught on fire and was filled with smoke.  He had a three-year follow-on assignment as an instructor pilot, and being continuously alert was paramount because  there  was  some  risk  involved  as  trainee  pilots  sometimes  make  dangerous mistakes.  Psychological Conditions SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.c  allege  Applicant  received  inpatient  care  in  a  military mental-health facility in August 2014, August 2015, and October 2015, following bipolar episodes. In 2014, Applicant volunteered to be a pilot for a highly specialized aircraft that costs the government more than $300 million.  He had trouble sleeping; his Air Force duties were stressful; and there was a new baby in his home.  He went to a flight surgeon on a Friday, and he received a prescription for Restoril.  He took the medication over the weekend.  On Monday, he went back to the doctor, and the doctor noticed Applicant’s speech was odd.  He was referred to a psychiatrist in the same clinic, who observed his comments were nonsensical.   He  received  a  referral  to  a  military  mental-health  facility.    However, Applicant thought he was going to the hospital for a sleep study.  In August 2014, he was an inpatient at a military mental-health facility for seven days, and he was diagnosed with Bipolar disorder.  He received two weeks of outpatient follow-up appointments.  Applicant believed he had stress-related trouble sleeping, and he disagreed with the Bipolar disorder diagnosis.  He was extremely worried that his lifetime dream of continuing his career as an Air Force pilot of high performance aircraft was in jeopardy due to the Bipolar diagnosis.  On  September  5,  2014,  a  psychiatrist,  Major  B,  prescribed  1,000  milligrams  of Depakote a day, which is a mood stabilizer.   On September 15,  2014, Major B increased  the  dosage  to  1,500  milligrams  a  day.    Applicant  took  the prescribed medications.  In October 2014, Major B said Applicant’s diagnosis of Bipolar I disorder, and use of psychoactive medication made him unfit for continued Air Force  duty.    Applicant  was  concerned  about  the  diagnosis,  and  in  November 2014, he started seeing a flight doctor, Colonel S, who was Major B’s supervisor.  Colonel S was Applicant’s friend, and he was also a pilot, and a psychiatrist.  Colonel S suggested the Bipolar diagnosis might be incorrect.  Colonel S gave Applicant false hope that he might not have Bipolar disorder.  Colonel S continued the Depakote; however, he reduced the dosage.  Colonel S wanted to carefully observe Applicant’s reaction to the reduced dosage.  In January 2015, Applicant stopped  taking  the  medication  completely.    Applicant  continued  to  believe  the August 2014 episode was an isolated event, and he could continue his Air Force career.  At  Applicant’s  June  2015  medical  board,  Colonel  S  conceded  he  was  unsure about  Applicant’s  diagnosis.    Applicant’s  mother  is  a  nurse.    He  was 3 unaware  that  his  mother  had  Bipolar  disorder.    She  has  been asymptomatic for years.  Around August to October 2015, Applicant learned of his mother’s Bipolar disorder.  His parents did not reveal her Bipolar diagnosis because  his  symptoms  were  not  similar  to  her  symptoms.    He  did  not immediately disclose his mother’s Bipolar diagnosis to his treating psychiatrist because he  was  unsure  whether  it  was  relevant  to  his  own  diagnosis,  which  he  continued  to believe  was  not  Bipolar  disease.    In  August  2015,  Applicant  had  been  off medication for 10 months, or he may have recently restarted taking medications.  He was having trouble sleeping, and he had manic-like symptoms that he was a genius, and he was having an epiphany.  His father took him to see Colonel S.  Colonel S decided, and Applicant and his father agreed, that he had Bipolar disorder.  In August 2015, he was an inpatient at a military mental-health facility for seven days.  In October 2015, Applicant was upset about the loss of his Air Force career, and during an Air Force weigh in, he slammed and kicked a door and started yelling that he needed an ambulance and wanted to “check in.”  The military police came into the area, tackled Applicant, and used a Taser on him.  Mental-health personnel concluded he was under medicated in October 2015.  In October 2015, he spent a  week  as  an  inpatient  in  a  military  mental-health  facility,  and  then  he  was  medically retired at a 50 percent level from the Air Force as a captain.  He is eligible for military medical care as a retiree.  The October 2015 episode removed all doubt from Applicant, his spouse, and his parents about the accuracy of his Bipolar disorder diagnosis.  He continued seeing Dr. S until he left the Air Force.   He  said  he  was  completely compliant  with  medical  directions  after  December 2015.  When  Applicant  learned  he  was  being  medically  retired  from  the  Air  Force,  he called the Department of Veterans Affairs  for a mental-health appointment.  He received a 90 percent disability rating from the VA with 70 percent for Bipolar disorder and 20 percent for other disabilities.  The Federal Aviation Administration revoked his private pilot’s license.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant has received treatment for Bipolar disorder from the VA  since  August  2014.  However,  his  VA  treatment  began  in  December  2015,  and Applicant has subsequently received mental-health care from the VA.  He sees a psychiatrist every 90 days and a counselor or psychologist every 30 days.  He is also able to seek assistance on an as needed basis.  Applicant’s spouse is a nurse, and she is watchful for any symptoms of Bipolar disorder or the beginnings of any  manic  episodes.    He  has  not  received  inpatient  treatment  since October 2015.  He takes his medication every night at 9:00 pm.  SOR ¶ 1.e alleges a licensed psychologist  evaluated Applicant in December 2020. Psychologist H diagnosed Applicant with Bipolar I disorder, full remission. SOR ¶ 1.e continues: 4 With  continued  adherence  with  prescribed  medication,  your  prognosis  is good.  However, your ongoing pattern to attempt  to  conceal the truth and minimize  your  condition  arouses  concern  about  either  your  judgment    or  trustworthiness  .  The discrepant  information  you  continue  to  provide,  and  in  the  absence  of medical  oversight,  what  may  otherwise  be  minor  concerns  about  your judgment and trustworthiness are more significant. Applicant  disagreed  with  Dr.  H’s  comment  that  he  has  an  “ongoing  pattern  to attempt to conceal the truth and minimize your condition.”  Dr. H said Applicant omitted or minimized the following details: “His mother’s history of Bipolar Disorder, the extent of his sleep deficits, and his history of amphetamine use were relevant details he did not share openly with his physician. It is clear [Applicant] was motivated to conceal these facts when he contested his diagnosis.”  According to Dr. H’s report, the  use  of  amphetamines  was  not  disclosed  in  his  background  information  or acknowledged  on  the  objective  Psychological  Screening  Inventory  .   However,  Dr.  H’s  report  states,  “unstructured  interview  revealed  tandem  use  of stimulants  and  Ambient  to  manage  extremely  long  flight  duty  when  he  was  in  the  Air Force. While he initially drank Red Bull, he was later given Dexedrine or other forms of amphetamine for long missions and Ambien to rest between flights.” Id. Applicant may not  have  recognized  that  the  PSI  was  seeking  any  amphetamine  use  and  not amphetamine use not prescribed by medical personnel. Dr.  H believed  Applicant  answered  some  questions  in  the  PSI  with  excessively positive  responses.  GE  2  at  5  At  his  hearing,  he  described  himself  as  an  optimistic person, and he believed while his condition is serious and challenging, with the excellent care he is receiving from the VA, his outlook is good.  He denied that he minimized his  mental-health  issues.    He  noted  that  he  fully  disclosed  his  mental-health diagnosis on his SCA, and he included the hospitals where he received treatment. He said Dr. H did not review any medical records after 2016.  She did not review his VA medical records.  Dr. H concluded her evaluation: With  continued  adherence  with  prescribed  medication,  his  prognosis  is considered good. Without medication, he would be at risk for another manic episode. Consultation with his current medical providers at the VA would be helpful  to  verify  his  compliance.  With  the  discrepant  information  he continues  to  provide  and  in  the  absence  of  medical  oversight,  what  may otherwise be minor concerns about his judgment and trustworthiness are more significant.  Applicant’s VA records indicate that he continues to received regular therapy.   He  is  treatment  compliant  and  invested  in  management  and  resolution  of  his symptoms.  He is currently taking 375 milligrams of Seroquel and 400 milligrams of Lamictal daily, which are mood stabilizers.  He has been taking them for about two years, and they are effective in the maintenance of his stability.  If he 5 feels excessive stress or anxiety, he seeks help.  For example, in 2018, he had a difficult  boss and  was  upset,  and  he  sought help from  the  VA.    He  received  a prescription for anxiety,  which  he  took for a  short period  of  time.  He  has  not  had  any episodes of mania, depression, or hospitalizations since October 2015.  He believed his Bipolar disorder was readily controllable with treatment, and he is diligent with his compliance with the VA’s treatment recommendations.  On April 15, 2022, a VA licensed clinical social worker  wrote that he provided counseling to Applicant.  LCSW F said “Veteran has been under my care since  January 2021  and  continues  to  seek  regular  individual  therapy.  Next  scheduled appointment is on 5/19/22. Veteran is treatment compliant and invested in management and resolution of symptoms. Veteran does not have any work restrictions or limitations related to mental health diagnosis.”  On  May  3,  2022,  LCSW  F  said  Applicant  “voluntarily  entered  a  counseling  or treatment program”; his “identified  condition  [is] readily  controllable with  treatment”; he “demonstrated  ongoing  and  consistent  compliance  with  the  treatment  plan”;  his “condition  [is]  amenable  to  treatment”;  and  he  “is  currently  receiving  counseling  or treatment with a favorable prognosis.”  Applicant  receives  support  from  his  church  and  family.    His  spouse carefully observes his behavior, is familiar with the symptoms of a manic episode, and will ensure that if symptoms start to appear, she will contact the VA to seek help.  He helps coach soccer and is a leader in another organization helping the youth in the community.  Character Evidence Applicant’s father, mother, and  spouse  are familiar with his medical history and his reluctant but eventual acceptance of his Bipolar disorder. He is stable and compliant with his medical recommendations.  They indicated he is responsible, reliable, and  trustworthy.  Their  statements  along  with  two  additional  witnesses  supported reinstatement of his security clearance. Appellant  received  the  following  military  awards:  Air  Medal  with  5  Oak  Leaf Clusters ; Air Force  Commendation Medal with 1 OLC; Meritorious Unit Award with  2  OLCs;  Meritorious  Unit Award  with  2 OLCs;  AF Outstanding Unit  Award  with  3 OLCs;  Combat  Readiness  Medal;  National  Defense  Service  Medal;  Afghanistan Campaign Medal with 4 Service Stars; Global War On Terrorism Expeditionary Medal; Global  War  on  Terrorism  Service  Medal;  AF  Overseas  Ribbon  Long;  Air  Force Expeditionary Service Ribbon with Gold Border with 2 OLCs; AF Longevity Service with 1 OLC; AF Special Duty Ribbon with 1 OLC; Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon with 1 Service Star; AF Training Ribbon; and NATO Medal.  He completed several Air Force training courses.  Applicant’s  six  Air  Medals  are  particularly  noteworthy.    They  described  more  than  100  combat  missions  flying  over  Iraq  and 6 Afghanistan  providing  millions  of  gallons  of  fuel  to  aircraft  patrolling  or  engaged  in airstrikes  against  the  enemy.  They  include  these  two  sentences  “The  expertise  and courage  exhibited  by  [Applicant]  during  these  critical  aerial  refueling  missions,  under extremely  hazardous  conditions,  demonstrated  his  superior  airmanship  and  steadfast devotion  to  duty.  The  professional  ability  and  outstanding  aerial  accomplishments  of [Applicant] reflect great credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.”  