Applicant is 41 years old, a native-born American citizen, and recently married to Ms. A. At the time the SOR was issued Applicant was engaged to Ms. A. He has a high school education and has been employed by a defense contractor since 2007.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he  has  failed  to  meet  his  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. 2 Specifically, the Government alleged that Applicant had not filed his 2015, 2017, or 2019 Federal  tax  returns  as  required.  Applicant  admitted  the  sole  allegation  under  this guideline.  He  also  submitted  additional  information  to  support  the  granting  of  national security eligibility. Applicant answered DOHA interrogatories on May 25, 2021. With regard to his tax situation he stated: For the  years that I didn’t file  my  taxes  I was working overseas  in  [Country   One]  ,  [Country  Two]  and   [Country   Three] , and   [Country   Four] . I   had   difficulty   with   obtaining   my  W2s overseas and in  the case of 2017, when  I was living on .  . . Island off  of the coast of Country  Three, I had  actually  filled  out my  return but  wasn’t able to e-file  it and  I wasn’t aware of  any  reliable way  of  mailing  it from  the  village there. I pre-paid $1,200  on  my  2015  tax  return because  I knew  I might have difficulty   getting   taxes  filed   on   time.   For  2019   we   had   just   merged   with another company  and  my  W2, which was no  longer available online, was not sent to  me  in  [Country  Four]. I had  planned  to  get all  of my  back taxes taken  care  of when  I  returned  to  the  States in  2020  but I  just  got  so  busy with  setting  up  two  new  . . . Training  Centers and  then  getting  Covid that it kind  of  got  put on  the  back burner. On  January  31, 2021  I got  in contact with a  tax  accountant from  . . . Tax  Services to  get myself  caught  up. I  am  now all   caught  up   on   my   tax   returns  through   2020.  As  an   overseas  worker  I qualified  for  the  Foreign  Earned  Income  Exclusion  during  2014,  2015, 2017, 2019  and  2020.  I knew  that I would be  getting  a  refund  so  there were never any  financial concerns about my  ability  to  pay  my  taxes. For tax  years 2016 and  2018  I was back in  the  USA  at tax  time  and  I was able to  file  my  returns on time.     Turning to the specific tax years at issue: 2015  - IRS records dated May 25, 2021, show that Applicant made an estimated tax payment of $1,200 on April 14, 2015, for the 2015 tax year.  2015  - IRS records dated December 27, 2021, show that Applicant’s 2015 Federal tax return was received on June 9, 2021. Those records further show that after applying various credits Applicant had no balance owed for that year.  2017  - Applicant submitted a letter dated May 19, 2021, from his tax accountant with attached tax documents. Those documents, Applicant’s Form 1040 and schedules, show that after applying various credits Applicant was due to receive a substantial refund from the IRS.  2019  - IRS records dated December 27, 2021, show that Applicant’s 2019 Federal tax return was received on May 19, 2021. Those records further show that after applying 3 various credits Applicant was due to receive a substantial refund from the IRS.  Paragraph 2  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national security  eligibility  because  he  has  foreign  contacts  that  may  create  circumstances  in which  the  individual  may  be  manipulated  or  induced  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group, organization, or government in a way inconsistent with U.S. interests. The SOR alleged that Applicant’s fiancée  is a citizen the Philippines. She and  Applicant  are  now  married.  He  admitted  this  allegation  in  his Answer  stating,  “My fiancée and now wife, is from the Philippines but she does not ask me about the nature of my work and I don’t discuss it.” Applicant first reported contact with  Ms. A on his 2020 e-QIP under Section 19, “Foreign  Contacts.”  At the time  they met,  in August  2019,  Ms. A  was  living in  Country Four, as was Applicant. He reported daily contact with her to his security officer at that time.  Applicant  was  subsequently  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of Personnel Management  on August 10, 2020. Applicant informed the investigator that  he  was  now engaged  to  Ms.  A  and  intended  to  sponsor her entry  into  the  United States. Applicant further stated that he had reported his Ms. A to his security office.  The Philippines Applicant’s wife is from the Philippines. Therefore, it is appropriate to examine the situation  with  regard  to  the  Philippines.  The  Philippines  is  a  multiparty,  constitutional republic. There are serious issues with terrorism in certain parts of the Philippines, and the  State  Department  recommends  that  American  citizens  not  travel  to  those  areas. Department  Counsel  submitted  evidence  that  certain  individuals  were  criminally convicted  for  violating  United  States  laws  regarding  exports  of  munitions.  There  are reports of human rights violations by parts of the Philippines government. The Philippines has been a United States ally for many years, dating back to the signing of the Mutual Defense Treaty on August 30, 1951. Most recently, an article from the  Defense  Department  website  dated  April  18,  2022,  stated,  “Secretary  of  Defense Lloyd J. Austin III and Philippine Defense Secretary Delfin N. Lorenzana met today at the Pentagon to strengthen the deep alliance between the two countries.” . 4 The United States/Philippines alliance was also the subject of the 9th United States- Philippines Bilateral Strategic Dialogue. The Department of Defense was represented by Assistant Secretary of Defense Ely S. Ratner. The State Department subsequently issued a statement that begins: The   United   States   and   the   Philippines   reaffirm   our   commitment   to a  partnership  of   sovereign   equals.   We   resolve   to   uphold   and   reinforce   our special   relationship   by   holding   steadfast   to   our   shared   democratic   values, enhancing  our  mutual  security  and  defense  capabilities,  and  working  together to  meet  the   common   challenges   that   we   will  face   in   the  future.  We  resolve to  further   fortify  our  mutual   trust   and   respect,   ensuring   that   the   relationship remains   relevant   and   mutually   beneficial   in   the   face   of   the   changing geopolitical the   emergence   of  new   challenges   and opportunities,   especially   those   brought   about   by   the   COVID-19   pandemic.  . landscape   and 