Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b,  each  with  a  brief  explanation.  Her admissions  and explanations  are  included  in  the findings  of  fact.  After a thorough  and careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional findings of fact. Applicant is 48  years old.  She  is a  single parent with  two  sons. One  son  is in his thirties and  serves in the  U.S. Army. She  also  has a  10-year-old son  who  lives with  her at home.  She   has  a   bachelor’s  degree   in  engineering.  She   has  worked   in  the   defense industry, with  a  clearance, since  2002, and for her current  employer since  2010.  Applicant lives in State 1. Mr. C is the brother of Applicant’s character witness, W. Mr. C has lived in a large city in State 2  Applicant and Mr. C dated long-distance for about a year, in about 2008. They remained friends afterwards. Applicant and W would visit Mr. C in State 2 fairly frequently in later years.  Mr.  C  owns  an  auto  parts  and  repair  shop,  among  other  ventures,  in  State  2. Applicant  testified  that  he  had  a  “lavish  lifestyle,”    and  expensive  taste, particularly  for  cars.  In  2016,  Mr.  C  approached  Applicant  for  help  in  financing  and 2 purchasing an expensive, high-end, luxury car. He said his credit cards were “maxed out” and could not afford to do so himself.  In exchange, she said he told her he would help pay off her student loans of about $5,000-6,000.  In about September 2016, Applicant flew to State 3 at Mr. C’s expense. She met the sales person in State 3, and signed the papers for the car. Mr. C remained in State 2, and the dealer transported the car there after the transaction.  Applicant paid for the car by taking out a loan from Bank A of about $136,000. It was her understanding that Mr. C would be making payments on the car.  She said he made only about two monthly payments .  Applicant was soon notified by Bank A that payments had fallen behind. Initially, Mr. C was involved in discussions with the bank, and said he would make payments, but did not follow up.  Mr. C did not assist Applicant with her student loans, as he had promised.  In about 2017, the car debt was charged off.   Applicant said Bank A made a settlement offer of about $105,000 , but she could not afford it.  Applicant retained counsel and filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition in July 2020.    She declared  the  car debt  at SOR ¶  1.a,  along with several  other debts.  Her  declared  nonpriority  debt  total  was  about $171,437  .  She reaffirmed two debts, both mortgages  on  her  home,  totaling  about  $290.000.    The debts were discharged in December 2020.  The docket sheet from the bankruptcy case  reflects  that  Applicant  participated  in  credit  counseling  during  the  bankruptcy process, as required.  Applicant  disclosed  the  car  debt    on  her  SCA  and  explained  the circumstances in her background interview, as well as in her hearing testimony.  She is remorseful about her conduct, and recognizes in hindsight that she made a poor decision to enter into this arrangement with Mr. C, which put her family, finances, clearance, and career in great jeopardy. She had never done this before, has not done it since, and will not do it again. She does not live beyond her means.  Applicant testified that the last time she saw Mr. C was several months ago at a family funeral. They did not have contact.  Applicant contacted police about the car and attempted to file charges against Mr. C for theft by deception. She was told she could file only a “miscellaneous report of a civil dispute”  against  him,  since  she  had  been  told  that  State  1  police  authorities  had  no jurisdiction over the matter  She filed a police report in 2018 so that the police could retrieve the car.  3 Several months after her hearing, Applicant reported that she had been contacted by local police, who had informed her that the car was now in their possession, and was the  subject  of  a  fraud  case.  She  said  the  officer  requested  contact  information  for  the bank and the towing company. An e-mail from the officer that Applicant provided said he was  unable  to  release any documentation  to  her,  because  the  police  matter remained pending.  Applicant’s  character  witness,  W,  testified.  W  has  a  college  degree  She  is  a longtime friend of Applicant, of about 20 years. She lives in the same area as Applicant. She  attested  that  Applicant  is  a  “workaholic,”  who  is  loyal,  dependable,  and  honest. Applicant  does not deserve  to  have  her career ruined over what  W  feels was  a  single instance  of  poor  judgment.  Applicant  has  had  a  difficult  time  in  recent  years,  as  both parents recently passed away.  W  is also Mr. C’s brother. W  attested that Mr. C has a long history of deceptive, criminal behavior. He took advantage of Applicant, as he has with many others, and she was a victim in the situation. He is very manipulative. She also said her brother is bipolar. Due to his mental health issues, W petitioned to have Mr. C involuntarily committed on multiple occasions in recent years, including at least in May 2018 and March 2019.  W  confirmed that Applicant has broken off contact with Mr. C, and if he texts Applicant, she tells W to request that he stop doing so.  She said, “I know for a fact this is something she’ll never do again.”  Applicant has an annual salary of $145,000.  She has savings and a remainder  at  the  end  of  each  month,  and  several  hundred  thousand  dollars  in  her company retirement plan.  Her credit reports show no delinquencies.  Applicant provided recommendation letters from several references. They attested to  Applicant’s  strong  work  ethic,  dedication  and  commitment  to  the  team  and  the company’s  goals.  She  is  proactive,  self-motivated,  and  deadline-oriented;  she  is  a pleasure to work with.  Applicant’s recent and  current work evaluations provided similar detail.  