Applicant  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations  with  detailed  explanations.  The admissions  are adopted  as findings  of  fact. After a thorough  and careful review of  the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact. Applicant is 35 years old. He has worked for his current government contractor- employer  since  April  2018  as  an  aircraft  mechanic.  He  is  seeking  his  first  security clearance. He holds a bachelor’s  degree. He is engaged and has four children.  The  SOR  alleged,  under  Guideline  J,  Applicant’s  12  different  arrests  starting  in 2000  and  ending  in  2017  .  Three  of  these  arrests  occurred  when Applicant was a juvenile. The most serious arrests include: in June 2012, an arrest and charge for distribution and possession of a controlled substance; in May 2013, an arrest and  charge  for  an  assault  causing  bodily  injury;  in  September  2013,  an  arrest  and charge  for  failure  to  obey  a  police  officer  and  resisting  arrest;  and  in  April  2017,  an arrest and charge for impeding the breathing of a house member . All these allegations were also cross-alleged under Guideline E . As stated above, Applicant admitted all the allegations and during his testimony accepted responsibility for his actions. He committed to being a changed man since he engaged in this criminal conduct as a teenager and into his 20s. By way of explanation, he  described  his  difficult  upbringing.  He  and  his  siblings  were  raised  by  his grandparents because his parents were not in the picture. They lived in a rough intercity neighborhood.  His  grandmother  passed  away  when  he  was  17,  so  his  grandfather became  his  primary  care  giver  through  high  school.  He  served  as  Applicant’s  role model.  His  grandfather  passed  away  in  2010  when  Applicant  was  still  in  college  and that started some difficult times and bad decisions by him.  Applicant is the first of his family to graduate from college. He bought a home a year ago where he lives with his fiancé and his kids. While he does not associate with anyone in his old neighborhood where he grew up, he does mentor high-risk kids from that neighborhood to provide them guidance so that they can avoid trouble-filled paths. He also participates in fundraising events that help fund scholarship programs for these kids.  2 A summary of the offenses admitted by Applicant include:  a  burglary  charge  in 2000,  another burglary  charge  in February  2003, and a possession of  a controlled substance charge in May 2003. All three were treated as juvenile offenses;    a June 2005 driving  without a license charge  was dismissed;    an   October  2005   possession   of  marijuana   charge   and   a   March   2006 driving   on   a   suspended   license   charge.  He   was  found   guilty   of   both charges;    a   May   2012   criminal  mischief  charge   was  dismissed;     a  June  2012  manufacturing  of  a  controlled  substance  charge  resulted  in  a deferred   adjudication   after  he   successfully   completed   two   years  of supervised probation;    a  May  2013  charge  of  assault by  causing  bodily  harm  was dismissed  and a  September 2013  resisting  arrest charge  was also dismissed;   a  April 2017  charge  of assaulting  a  house  member was reduced  to assault by   contact  to   which  he   pleaded   “no   contest.”   Applicant has not been arrested or charged with any other criminal  offense since April 2017.  In addition to  Applicant’s  job  with  a  government  contractor,  he  started  a  vehicle transport limited liability company  in 2020. He has one employee who transports vehicles to various parts of the country. The business has been very successful to date, earning him between $70,000 and $90,000 per year in extra income. He is also in the process  of  selling  an  investment  property  that  he  “flipped”  and  that  will  also  generate additional income.  Applicant  is  well  thought  of  by  his  employer  as  evidenced  by  three  letters  of recommendation he submitted from a supervisor and two coworkers. Applicant’s current supervisor  described  him  as  having  “the  highest  moral  character.”  He  also  stated  that Applicant  is  well  respected  by  his  coworkers  and  is  a  leader  for  his  work  group.  The supervisor has held a security clearance for 30 years and recommended that Applicant also  receive  a  clearance.  Applicant’s  two  coworkers  describe  him  in  similar  ways  and also support his effort to receive a clearance.  3 