Applicant  admitted  both  of the SOR allegations. He  is 43  years old.  He married  in 2006,  and  divorced  and  remarried  in 2008. He has two  children,  ages 14  and  6.  His 6- year-old  child   is  autistic.   He  graduated   from   high   school  in   1997,  and   he   earned   a bachelor’s degree  in  2006  and  a  master’s degree  in 2010. He  and  his family  previously lived  in  state  A,  and  they  moved  to  state  B  in  March 2013.  As  of the  date  of the  hearing, he  owned  his home in  state B since March 2019.   Applicant served  honorably  in the  U.S. military  from  October 1997  to  August 2003, and  in the  reserve  from  August 2004  until he  medically  retired  in November 2009. He has worked   for  various   DOD  contractors.  As   of  the   date   of   the   hearing,  he   worked   as  an associate  - deputy  task lead  for his employer, a  DOD contractor, since  March 2013. He was granted a  DOD security  clearance  in 2009.  The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:    petitioned  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  in September 2015; claimed approximately $677,532 in outstanding liabilities; converted his bankruptcy case to a Chapter 7 and received a discharge in February 2016 ; and    petitioned  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  in  October  2019;  claimed  approximately $726,304 in outstanding liabilities; and his bankruptcy case was pending as of the date of the SOR . The SOR allegations are established by Applicant’s admissions in his Answer and January 2020 security clearance application , and by bankruptcy court records.  Applicant and his spouse attributed their financial problems to beginning in March 2013, when they relocated their family from state A to state B for continued employment opportunities for Applicant, his spouse’s employment transfer, and to be near Applicant’s in-laws. Upon arriving in state A, Applicant and his family lived  with  Applicant’s  in-laws until Applicant sold his home in state A. He and his spouse contracted to purchase their first home in state B in July 2013. In August 2013, they finalized the sale of their home in state A. They finalized the purchase of their first home in state B in September 2013.  2 In   April  2013,  Applicant’s   spouse   learned   that  her   employment   as  a   career counselor  to   U.S.  military   members   would  be   transitioning   from   in-person   to   virtual services.  She  testified  that  this transition  “was a  very  big  blindside  . .  .  .” She  consequently had   to   find   new   employment,   as  the   U.S.  military’s  contract  with   her  company   ended because  of the  transition. She  found  employment as a  career counselor with  a  private, for-profit educational institution  in  July  2013.   Applicant’s  spouse’s  new  employment,  however,  was  short-lived.  Her  position turned out to be different from that for which she interviewed, and it did not align with her values. Her employer tasked her with cold-calling graduates to assemble data necessary for securing federal funding, but instructed that she report only those who had achieved professional  success.  She  stated  that  when  she  left  her  position,  “[t]hat’s  essentially where my whole life just completely fell apart . . . .” She realized that her skills as a U.S. military career counselor did not transition to civilian life, as she did not have a degree in counseling or teaching. She “quickly realized I needed to go back to school if I was going to be successful in any type of career, not just a job.”  While earning her state B teaching certificate, Applicant’s spouse was in a high- risk pregnancy with their second child, due to a medical diagnosis that posed health risks for  both  her  and  the  child.  She  underwent  an  emergency  C-section  in  2015  out  of immediate concern for her and the child’s health, and the child was born with significant health challenges. The child was formally diagnosed with autism in June 2021. The costs of  this  child’s  medical  care,  coupled  with  Applicant’s  spouse’s  unemployment,  caused financial strain.  In   the   summer  of   2015,  Applicant  and   his  spouse   unsuccessfully   explored   with their banking institution the  possibility of  resolving their debts through  a home-equity line of   credit   or a   debt-consolidation   loan.  Applicant’s  spouse,  who   handled   the   household finances,  had  the  idea  for them  to  reorganize,  with  the  intent to  repay  their  debts.  They met with  a  bankruptcy  attorney  and  petitioned  for Chapter 13  bankruptcy  in September 2015. Up  until then, they  were current on  their  expenses.  They  made  one  payment under the   Chapter  13   bankruptcy   plan,  and   then   they   converted   their   bankruptcy   case   to   a Chapter 7  in November 2015. Their  attorney  advised  them  that doing  so  was their  best option, as they  would not have  been  able to  afford further payments under the  Chapter 13  bankruptcy  plan.   Their  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  was  discharged  in  February  2016.  They continued to pay their mortgage, but they surrendered both of their cars. The credit cards they used for their second child’s medical expenses were among the discharged debts. Applicant’s  spouse  knew  that  her  federal  student  loans  were  not  dischargeable.  Both Applicant and his spouse acknowledged that their Chapter 7 bankruptcy case permitted them to reset financially. They testified, however, that it significantly affected their credit and lives, and they would never petition for Chapter 7 bankruptcy again in the future.  3 In March 2018, Applicant and his spouse sold their first home in state B at a profit of  approximately  $15,000.  They  applied  their  equity  towards  purchasing  their  second home in state B, in July 2018, for $460,000. Applicant’s spouse testified that they “were in a good spurt,” and while their second home was costlier, they obtained a better interest rate. They also sought to decrease  their long-term  living expenses  by downsizing to a home that was smaller, easier to maintain, and in a good community. The home was also in a good public school district for both of their children, which offered access to public therapy  services  for  their  second  child.  Applicant’s  spouse  attended  night  school  to continue pursuing her teaching certificate, and she tutored for $20 hourly.  As  they  lived  in  this  home,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  encountered  significant problems that were not revealed during home inspection. His spouse described it as “the house  of  horrors.”  Immediately,  they  learned  that  their  heating,  ventilation,  and  air conditioning system was broken. In 2018 to early 2019, when their second child at age 3 began to self-harm, was hospitalized for five days, and monitored for Kawasaki disease, he tested positive for exposure to black mold. They then found black mold and termites in the home. They learned that the home inspector botched their inspection, in conspiracy with  the  realtor.  They  elected  to  remain  in  the  home  when  the  owner  of  the  home inspection company convinced them to let him fix the problems in the home, in exchange for  them  not  suing  his  company.  Meanwhile,  their  second  child’s  behavioral  issues worsened. Applicant’s spouse stated that they chose to sell the home with full disclosure, because it “came to a very apparent halt that we needed to go to an even less expensive house.” They sold this home in March 2019 at “almost a complete wash.”   Applicant and his spouse purchased their third home in state B in March 2019 for $419,000, and they lived in this home as of the date of the hearing. They downgraded when they purchased this home. Applicant’s spouse testified regarding her intentions, “I wanted to just be as basic life living, just completely readjust, and that’s what we’ve done.” In  October  2019,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  petitioned  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy.  She stated, “between the [second] house that was supposed to help us recover and financially save, it had ruined what felt like a wou[n]d that was already open.” They claimed liabilities totaling approximately $726,304, which included their mortgage and both of  their cars. She stated: [I]t   was  a   lot   of  preemptive   anxiety   over  when   I   would  be   back   with   a paycheck. We  were very  used  to  living  with  two  paychecks, and  not even for extravagant things. My  husband  and  I have  never even  taken  a  vacation together. We  don’t have  nannies or dog  walkers. I mean, just  for electricity, food, gas, water. And  so, we  were already  really  skimming  as much  as we could to  just live. And  we  were waiting  just  to  breathe  with  my  paycheck to make   sure  that  everything   was  paid  on   time.  And   it  was  becoming   more clear as we were living here, we were living [in state B], the same  place we are now, how  just  living  was not going  to  be  possible, that we  were going  to begin  to   default  on   things. We   were   going   to   have   to   choose  food   or the mortgage very  quickly with  young children. 4  Applicant and his spouse were repaying their debts through their five-year Chapter 13 bankruptcy payment plan, at $1,025 monthly. They provided documentation reflecting that they had not missed a single payment from December 2019 to April 2022. They had no  future  intentions  of  filing  for  bankruptcy  again,  or  converting  their  Chapter  13 bankruptcy  case  to  another  Chapter  7.  Applicant’s  April  25,  2022  credit  bureau  report reflects that he did not have any outstanding debts. Applicant’s spouse stated, “We stick to  our  budget.  I  feel  like  we  have  had  a  rebirth.”  Their  budget  reflects  a  monthly  net remainder of $700 after expenses, which included continued payment of their mortgage despite  its  inclusion  in  their  Chapter 13  bankruptcy  case.  She  stated  that  they  did  not have any credit cards. They switched their health insurance plan in 2019, which allowed them to budget in advance for their medical expenses. She stated that they previously paid, under Tricare Standard, approximately $300 to $800 monthly out-of-pocket solely for the medical expenses of their second child. Since switching to Tricare Prime, they paid $300 monthly in medical costs for the whole family. She stated that their second child was doing well.  Applicant continued  to  be  the  sole  breadwinner. However, his spouse  anticipated returning   to   work  in  2023   as  a   teacher.  She   stated   that  although   their   Chapter  13 bankruptcy  case  prevented  them  from  having  a  savings  account, they  were setting  aside money  in a  401  retirement account  and  in  future  investments. They  were current  on filing   their   federal  and   state   income   tax   returns,   and   were  on   a   payment  plan   of   $200 monthly  to  resolve  their federal income  taxes of  $3,769  that they  owed  for tax  year   2021. Her federal student loans of approximately $100,000 were in  deferment due to the COVID-19   pandemic.   Once   the   deferment   period   is   over,  she   anticipated   that   her payments toward her student loans would be  approximately  $300  to  $400  monthly, and she   expected   to   apply   for  student   loan   forgiveness  once   she   begins   teaching.  Both Applicant and  his  spouse   received  financial counseling  through  their  bankruptcy  cases and  from  a  nonprofit  credit counseling  organization  in  August  2021.   Both  character  witnesses  that  testified  attested  to  Applicant’s  trustworthiness, integrity,  and  good  judgment.  The  first  witness    was  Applicant’s  supervisor  and friend. W1 has known Applicant since Applicant began working for the company in 2013. W1 stated that he has input into Applicant’s performance, and described Applicant as “my virtual  subject  matter  expert,”  “top  notch,”  has  a  strong  work  ethic,  and  is  a  respected member  of  the  community.  W1  was  aware  of  the  SOR  concerns,  and  stated  that  he guided  Applicant  in  the  self-reporting  requirements  when  Applicant  informed  him  of Applicant’s  financial challenges and consequent exploration of bankruptcy options.  W1 stated that he  was aware  that Applicant’s family endured  significant challenges related Applicant’s  second  child;  he  believed  that  Applicant  relied  on  bankruptcy  to  maintain control  of  his  finances;  and  Applicant  learned  from  both  bankruptcy  experiences  and would not face bankruptcy again in the future.  The  second  character  witness    was  Applicant’s  colleague  and  friend  since 2015. W2 was also a member of the National Guard for 19 years, with three deployments 5 overseas. W2  described  Applicant  as “highly  organized,” and  “usually  the  one  that  keeps everybody  in the  office  on  par.”  W2  was aware of  the  SOR concerns, and  stated  that he was  aware  that   Applicant   incurred   financial   difficulties  due   to   the   medical  issues  of Applicant’ spouse  and  second  child.   