Applicant is a 36-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen from Pakistan. He works as a senior  project  manager  who  has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  July 2021. He worked for several other defense contractors before beginning his current job. He seeks a Secret security clearance to enhance his upward mobility in his career field.  After  emigrating  from  Pakistan  at  age  15  with  his  family,  Applicant  was  raised and educated in the U.S. He graduated from high school in May 2004. He was awarded a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics in August 2016, and was awarded a Master of Business Administration degree in October 2018.  He married in November 2018. At the time of his hearing, his wife was pregnant, though she later had a miscarriage.  Foreign Influence SOR ¶ 1.a, the sole issue under Guideline B, concerns Applicant’s wife, mother- in-law, and father-in-law, all allegedly citizens and residents of Pakistan. This allegation is  established  in  part  by  his  March  22,  2020  SF-86;  his  subsequent  background interviews, his SOR Answer; and his hearing testimony.  2 Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of Pakistan.  Applicant’s wife is a citizen of Pakistan; however, she obtained her  “green  card”  in  April  2021  and  is  now  a  permanent  resident  of  the  United  States.  Applicant met his wife through their families. They married in Pakistan in November  2018.  She  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  March  2021  with  a  “spouse visa.”  She  intends  to  become  a  U.S.  citizen  when  eligible  after  completing  the  waiting period.  His wife earned a Bachelor of Dental surgery degree in March 2019  in Pakistan.  She works  at a dental clinic in  the United States  and  is studying for the state dental certification examination. . Applicant’s father came  to  the  United  States when  his U.S. employer transferred him   here  from   Saudi   Arabia.   He  later  sponsored   his  wife,  three   daughters,  and Applicant, in  July  2021. At the  time, Applicant was 15  years old.    Applicant  and  all  of  these  family  members are now  naturalized  U.S. citizens.  Applicant  described  his  immediate  family  as  “close-knit.”  His  immediate  family lives  nearby  and  regularly  communicate  with  each  other.    Applicant’s  father  is retired and financially independent. Before retiring, his father owned a pizza parlor. His mother is a homemaker.  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  September 2007.    His  most  recent  U.S.  passport  was  issued  in  August  2018.  The  Pakistani passport  he  used  to  immigrate  to  United  States  has  since  expired.  He  holds  no  other foreign  passport.    Applicant  has  not  visited  Pakistan  since  his wedding in November 2018. He does not expect to return.  Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  mother-in-law  have  both  worked  in  healthcare  for the  past  20  years.   They  desire  to  move  to  the United States to pursue a better life.  Applicant’s wife  has two brothers and two sisters. One of her sisters is married and lives in the United Kingdom, and her other three  siblings  live  in  Pakistan.  Applicant’s  wife  and  in-laws  have  never  been  affiliated with  or  employed  by  the  Pakistani  government.  Applicant  does  not  communicate  with his wife’s siblings.  Applicant speaks very infrequently to his in-laws. For example, as of the hearing date,  he  had  only  spoken  to  them  once  since  his  wife  arrived  in  the  United  States  in March  2021.  His  wife  speaks  to  her  parents  weekly.    Applicant’s  parents occasionally  send  small  amounts  of  money  to  help  family  members  in  Pakistan.  His parents  own  two  small  parcels  of  property  in  Pakistan.  Their  future  intentions  as  to those properties is undetermined.  Applicant  has  no  bank  accounts  or  assets  in  Pakistan.  He  maintains  checking and savings accounts in the United States. His annual salary is about $85,000. His wife has been working and contributing to their joint income. Applicant is registered to vote in his U.S. state of residence and exercises his rights of U.S. citizenship.  Applicant does not communicate with any family or friends in Pakistan.  3 Financial Considerations The 10 financial allegations in the SOR are established by Applicant’s March 22, 2020  SF-86,  his  background  interviews,  his  SOR  Answer,  the  credit  reports  in  the record, from April 2020, October 2020, and July 2021, and his hearing testimony.  He incurred his SOR debts primarily when he was in college. He was a full-time college  student.  He  put  himself  through  college,  assumed  his  own  rent  and  college expenses, and also had to support his parents. He quit his job and from 2014 to 2016. His  father  was  retired  and  his  mother  did  not  work  outside  the  home.   Applicant was also briefly laid off, from March 2021 to July 2021. During this timeframe, he  received  unemployment  compensation,  COVID-related  stimulus  money,  and  a severance package from his employer.  Applicant  initiated  contact  with  a  debt  consolidation  company    in  January 2021 and signed a contract with them in March 2021.  He was required to pay the DCC $2,575  in five monthly payments of $495, for the  DCC’s fees and  to  settle  and/or  pay  off  his  delinquent  accounts.   Applicant communicates with the DCC on a regular basis, typically by email.  The following is a summary of Applicant’s ten SOR allegations and their status: SOR  ¶   2.a   –  Charged-off  credit  card  account   in  the   amount   of   $5,809. Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.b   –   Charged-off  credit  card  account   in  the   amount   of   $4,592. Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.c   –   Charged-off   credit  card  account   in  the   amount   of   $4,168. Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.d   –   Charged-off  credit  card  in  the   amount   of   $3,539.  Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and was settled and paid for a lesser amount.  DEBT RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.e   –   Charged-off  credit  card  in  the   amount   of   $3,481.  Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. 4 SOR  ¶   2.f   –   Charged-off  credit  card  in  the   amount   of   $1,984.   Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR ¶  2.g  –  Collection cell  phone  account  in the  amount  of  $633. Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.   Applicant paid this debt in 2020 before entering into a contract with the DCC.  DEBT RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.h   –   Charged-off  credit  card  in   the   amount   of   $7,578.  Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This is one of three accounts  with  the  same  creditor  .  The  DCC  had  negotiated  a settlement  with  the  creditor  to  forgive  this  account  if  Applicant  paid  the  remaining  two accounts listed above. Applicant had not yet received an IRS Form 1099-C.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR  ¶-  2.i  –   Charged-off  credit  card  in  the   amount   of   $4,106.  Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.  This debt is enrolled with the DCC and will be settled and/or paid as funds become available.  DEBT BEING RESOLVED. SOR  ¶   2.j  –   Collection  cell   phone   account  in  the   amount   $2,161.  Applicant admitted this allegation in part and denied it in part.   Applicant paid this debt in 2020 before entering into a contract with the DCC. This debt no longer appears on his most recent credit report.  DEBT RESOLVED. As noted above, three out of the ten accounts are resolved, and Applicant has a plan in place to resolve the remaining debts. He anticipated having the funds to pay his DCC in “January or March ” when he received his stimulus check and/or income tax refund.  He submitted documentation that he completed an online credit counseling course on March 3, 2021.  Applicant uses his debit card for his expenses and avoids using his credit card.  Post-hearing,  Applicant  submitted  a  current  budget.  His  joint  monthly  pre-tax income is $8,800, and his net monthly remainder is $3,050. His budget reflects that he is  living  within  his  means  and  living  a  modest  lifestyle.  In  addition,  he  took  the extraordinary  step  of  moving  out  of  state  that  reduced  his  monthly  rent  from  $2,000, plus  utilities,  to  $650,  which  includes  utilities.  As  noted,  his  wife  is  now  working  and contributing to their joint income.  Applicant contributes six percent of his income to a 401k account.  Character Evidence Applicant  submitted  five  reference  letters,  two  from  his  colleagues,  and  three from  former  colleagues.  Collectively,  these  letters  describe  Applicant  as  hardworking, honest,  reliable,  trustworthy,  a  team  player, family  oriented,  and  was  an  asset  to  their 5 respective organizations. He also submitted a recent August 2020 monetary award from his employer for “performance  and  continuous improvement.”  Applicant stated that while growing up, he was taught the value of being honest, the  benefits  of  education,  and  holding  a  steady  job.  His  current  job  enables  him  to engage directly with his military customers that he finds very rewarding. His life, family, business, career, and loyalty are all in the United States. He would never compromise the  information  entrusted  to  him  by  the  Government.  He  remains  committed  to  the United States, his work, family, and obligations.  