Applicant denied all the allegations in the SOR, except for SOR allegation ¶ 1.d. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  65-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with the defense contractor “for 22 years.” He is married, and has three adult children.  Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. and  1.b.  Applicant  denies that he  is indebted  to  Creditor A, as the  result of student   loans   he   incurred   on   behalf   of   his   son.  These   student  loans   totaled   about $272,000. Applicant paid these  student loans in August of  2021, prior to  the  issuance  of the SOR.  1.c.  and  1.d. Applicant  admits that his wages  were garnished, at  the  rate  of  $800 a   month,   to   pay   back  delinquent  student   loans  to   the   Department  of  Education. Unbeknownst   to   Applicant,   that  garnishment   stopped   , and he  has  an outstanding  debt  of  about $84,000.    Applicant  made   a   one-time   payment   of  $5,000   towards  this  past-due debt,  and   is  now   making   monthly   payments  of   $500   to   the   Department  of  Education.  Guideline E  - Personal Conduct 2.a.   and   2.b.  Applicant  denies  that  he   “deliberately   failed   to   disclose”  his delinquencies  and  Federal Debt,  noted  in  Paragraph  1,  when   he  answered  Section  26 on   his  August  2020   Electronic  Questionnaire   for  Investigations  Processing   . Applicant credibly  avers that he  was going  through  “family  issues” at  the  time  and  made “an  honest mistake.” It  is important to  note  that Applicant made  these  disclosures when he  executed  his January  2016  e-QIP, four  years earlier.  Accordingly,  the   Government  was  aware  of   these   delinquencies,   which  Applicant  has now  addressed.  Based  on  all  the  available  evidence,  I find  that  Applicant  did  not  have any intent to  deceive the Government about these  debts. 2 