Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  of  a  Department  of  Defense  contractor seeking  a  security  clearance.  She  has  worked  full-time  for  her  current  employer  since June  2020.  She  has  worked  as  a  Department  of  Defense  contractor  and  has  held  a security  clearance  since  2016.  Applicant  is  a  high  school  graduate  and  earned  an Information  Technology  Fundamentals  certification  and  a  Microsoft  Specialist certification. She is single and has no children.  Guideline F, Financial Considerations: On October 29, 2018, Applicant submitted a security clearance questionnaire. A subsequent  security  clearance  background  investigation  revealed  Applicant  had  the following  delinquent  debts:  a  $13,098  charged-off  debt  as  a  result  of  a  voluntary  car repossession  ;  a  $7,807 delinquent medical account owed to an unidentified medical creditor ; a $1,286 delinquent medical account ; a $749 delinquent medical account ;  a $609 delinquent account that was placed for collection ; a $596  delinquent  medical  account  ;  and  a  $575  delinquent account that was placed for collection . The SOR also alleged that Applicant failed to file her Federal income tax returns for tax year 2017 ; failed to file her State A income tax returns for tax year 2017  ;  and  failed  to  file  her  State  B  income  tax  returns  for  tax  year  2017 .  Applicant  faced  many  personal  and  financial  issues  in  2017.  Her  grandmother and uncle  became seriously ill.  Her father passed away during the  same time-period. Her  grandmother  and  uncle  soon  passed  away  after  her  father’s  death.  Applicant provided  support  to  all  three  individuals.  She  had  to  pay  for  her  father’s  funeral expenses. She was also figuring out how to pay for her grandmother and uncle’s funeral expenses  as  well  as  their  unpaid  medical  expenses.  She  was  also  going  through  a 2 hostile break-up with a long-time boyfriend. It was tough, but Applicant says she had to be strong in order to take care of her family.  Applicant claims she provided all of her paperwork for her 2017 federal and state income taxes to a tax professional.  She was unaware that she was required to file state income tax returns for both State A and State B.  She was required to do this because she  lived  part  of  the  year  in  State  A  and  part  of  the  year  in  State  B.  When  she discovered this was an issue, Applicant attempted to resolve the situation. She filed her Federal and state tax returns in 2019. During the hearing, Applicant apologized and said her failure to file her 2017 income tax returns was not intentional.   The status of the debts alleged in the SOR are: SOR  ¶   1.a:   $13,098  charged-off  automobile  debt:  Applicant  was  in  a  car accident.  She  believed  the  insurance  company  would  pay  for  the  damages.  The insurance company declined coverage. Applicant recently entered into a payment plan. Her  first  payment  was  $153.  The  monthly  payments  will  eventually  increase  to  $220. She  is  required  to  pay  $5,500  to  settle  the  account.  She  provided  proof  of  her  first payment.   SOR ¶  1.b:  $7,807 delinquent medical debt:  Applicant had difficulty locating this medical  account.  The  SOR  is  not  specific  in  its  pleading.  Applicant  believed  it  was related to being treated for a miscarriage. After the hearing, Applicant called around to all of the hospitals in the metropolitan area where she believed she had treatment over the past several years.  Hospital A indicated that her balance is zero. However, they did not provide the treatment, which is the basis of this debt. Hospital B confirmed the debt. However, the debt is too old to collect. The debt is uncollectable.   SOR ¶  1.c: $1,286 delinquent medical account:  Applicant  had difficulty locating this account because the SOR pleading is too broad and vague. Applicant believed this debt was paid. After the hearing, she provided proof that she paid her medical debt to Hospital A. Due to the vagueness of the SOR allegation, it is not clear that this is related to the debt alleged in the SOR.  The medical account no longer appears on her credit report.  Applicant  provided  sufficient  evidence  to  show  the  account  was  resolved.   SOR  ¶   1.d:  $749  delinquent  medical  account:  Applicant  had  difficulty  locating this account because the SOR pleading is too broad and vague. Applicant believed this debt was paid. After the hearing, she provided proof that she paid her medical debt to Hospital  A.  The  medical  account  no  longer  appears  on  her  credit  report.  Applicant provided sufficient evidence to show the account was resolved.  3 SOR ¶ 1.e: $609 delinquent debt placed for collection: Applicant paid off this debt on April 7, 2021.  SOR  ¶   1.f: $596   delinquent  medical  account:     Applicant  had   difficulty   locating this account because  the  SOR pleading  is too  broad  and  vague.  Applicant  believed  this debt was paid.  After the  hearing, she  provided  proof that she  paid  her medical debt to Hospital  A.   The   medical  account  no   longer  appears  on   her  credit  report.  Applicant provided  sufficient evidence  to  show  the  account  was resolved.  SOR ¶ 1.g: $575 delinquent debt placed for collection: Applicant paid off this debt on April 7, 2021.  SOR ¶  1.h: Failed to file Federal income tax returns for tax year 2017:  Applicant filed her 2017 Federal income tax returns in 2019.  She was entitled a refund  of  $853 and did not owe a balance.  SOR ¶  1.i: Failed to file State A income tax returns for tax year 2017:  Applicant understood  that  she  was  not  required  to  file  an  income  tax  return  in  State  A  because she resided in State B. She claims the person who filed her tax returns made a mistake. Once she learned of the issue, Applicant contacted State A and was told that she does not owe a balance to State A.  SOR ¶  1.j: Failed  to  file  State  B  income  tax  returns for tax  year 2017:  Applicant claims she  filed  her 2017  State   B  income  tax  return. She  testified  she  contacted  State B, who  informed  her she  owes approximately  $3,000.  She  set up  a  payment plan  with State   B.   The   first  payment  was  due   on   October  15th.  She   agreed   to   pay   $196.82   per month  over a  period  of  20  months.  The  payments are directly  via an  allotment from  her paycheck. The tax debt is being resolved.  In  2017,  Applicant’s  annual  income  was  approximately  $55,000.  Her  annual income  is  currently  $75,000.  She  testified  that  she  had  nothing  in  collection.  She  is working on improving her credit. She wants to speak with a credit counselor. Her goal is to buy a house.  She believes she is able to satisfy her remaining debts.  For the past two  years,  she  has  rented  an  apartment  with  a  roommate.  Her  roommate  had  some periods  of  unemployment  so  Applicant  occasionally  paid  her  share  of  the  rent.  Her roommate  is  currently  employed,  and  is  able  to  pay  her  share  of  the  monthly  rent  of $1,488.  Applicant  pays  for  cable,  food  and  housing.  To  earn  extra  income,  Applicant occasionally  works  as  a  driver  for  a  rideshare  company.  This brings  in  an  extra  $200.  Applicant’s monthly net income is approximately $4,200. Her share of the rent is $750. Her car payment is $917, and $626 for the automobile debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. Groceries cost $400 and utilities cost $108. She testified she has approximately, $1,000 left  over  each  month  after  expenses.  She  has  $2,000  set  aside  for  emergencies.  She occasionally  supports  her  mother  and  her  aunt.  For  example,  she  paid  her  aunt’s 4 monthly car payment of  $169 for a year when her aunt was unemployed. She has not made any large expenditures within the past few years.  Under cross-examination, Applicant admitted to getting behind on one credit card payment  and  on  her  car  note  as  indicated  on  the  most  recent  credit  report  dated, September  22,  2022.  She  testified  that  she  needed  to  pay  her  attorney  fees  for  this DOHA  proceeding.  Her  explanation  is  that  she  needed  to  apply  the  money  towards  a lawyer  to  represent  her  so  she  could  save  her  livelihood.  Her  car  note  now  has automatic  payments  and  she  is  working  on  catching  up  on  her  payments.  . The two debts discussed in this paragraph were not alleged in the SOR. As  such,  they  will  not  be  considered  under  matters  of  disqualification.  They  will  be considered under matters of extenuation and mitigation. Whole-Person Factors Several  of  Applicant’s  friends  and  colleagues  wrote  statements  on  her  behalf. Ms. A. worked with Applicant when Applicant was an intern at her company. She took an interest in Applicant because she showed up for work on time, dressed for success, and  gave  it  100%.  She  describes  Applicant  as  “a  go-getter  in  spades.”  She  watched Applicant  face  many  challenges,  but  did  not  let  obstacles  stand  in  her  way.  She  has watched her grow professionally and can attest to her character, skills, drive, and ability to succeed. . Ms. B. is a friend of Applicant. When she moved into the area, Applicant allowed her  to  live  with  her  until  she  found  another  place  to  live.  She  describes  Applicant  as caring, loving, considerate and sweet. Applicant is successful in her work and dedicated to her family and friends.  Ms. C. has known Applicant for over 10 years. She describes herself as a former co-worker  and  mentor.  They  became  friends  outside  the  workplace.  She  describes Applicant  as  “an  intelligent  and  responsible  human  being  of  amazing  character.” Applicant has a great deal of integrity and always does the right thing.  Ms.  D. has been friends  with  Applicant since  high school. They  became friends after Applicant voluntarily took on the responsibility of  walking Ms.  D.’s autistic brother home from the school bus stop after school.  Applicant is always there to listen and to help  her  find  solutions  to  her  problems.  In  the  Fall  2021,  Applicant  tutored  Ms.  D.  in math which helped her pass a college math course. Applicant has always worked hard. She describes Applicant as “selfless, diplomatic, and extremely warm-hearted.”  