Applicant is a 47-year old single woman with seven children, ranging in age from 9 to 27. She was married previously from 2003 to 2020. The marriage ended in divorce.  Applicant’s ex-husband has custody of the minor children.  After graduating from high school, Applicant earned two associate degrees.   She  is  a  veteran  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  serving  from  1993  to  2015.  She  retired honorably.  According to a former Air Force supervisor, Applicant performed all of her tasks “with  enthusiasm, dedication, and attention to detail.”  While working for this supervisor, Applicant’s stellar performance led to a promotion to a position “commensurate with someone with much more experience.”  She has held a security clearance for 21 years. Applicant currently works for a contractor, as a production planner. She has been working at this position since August 2021.  In  November 2015,  after  Applicant  retired  from  the  Air  Force,  she and  her  then husband  started  a  commercial cleaning business.   A  significant  portion of  their business derived from a prime contractor who paid her to provide cleaning services on a local military base. Initially, the business was successful. However, the prime contractor stopped making timely payments a few months after entering into the contract.  This  problem  gradually  worsened  until  the  contractor  stopped  making  payments altogether.  Applicant and her then husband consulted law firms about suing the contractor.   However,  no  firm  was  willing  to  take  the  case,  explaining  that  the  size  of  the contractor’s company and the contractor’s clout in the community would make the case too labor-intensive and expensive to litigate.  2 The failure of the contractor to pay Applicant and her then husband strained their finances, as they had to scramble to pay their employees and their business expenses.   Gradually,  they  began  falling  behind  on  their  payroll  taxes  and  their  state employment taxes. Ultimately, they became unable to pay their personal debts.  In  September  2018,  Applicant  and  her  then  husband  filed  for  Chapter  13 bankruptcy protection, as alleged in SOR subparagraph 1.a.  Approximately $87,000 of debts  were  included  in  the  plan.    As  part  of  the  bankruptcy  proceeding, Applicant’s home  was  sold at foreclosure.  Also, as part of the bankruptcy plan,  Applicant  was  required  to  attend  financial  counseling.    Applicant  had  no financial problems before the business failed. By late 2019, Applicant and her then husband’s financial problems had begun to stress their marriage.  In February 2020, Applicant filed for divorce. As part of their separation agreement, Applicant and her then  husband agreed to split  the Chapter 13 bankruptcy  payments.  The  divorce  was  finalized  by  December  2020.   Subsequently, Applicant’s husband reneged on the terms of the separation agreement, leading  to  the  dismissal  of  the  bankruptcy  plan  for  failing  to  make  the  court-ordered payments.  In addition to the bankruptcy filing,  the  SOR alleges  that Applicant has  incurred five  delinquent  debts,  as  alleged  in  subparagraphs  1.b  through  1.f,  and  that  Applicant owes delinquent business tax debt, as alleged in subparagraph 1.g. Subparagraph 1.b, totaling  $6,640,  is  a  credit  card  account.  Applicant  has  been  making  $75  monthly payments since March 2021.  As of the date of the hearing, the outstanding balance was $5,515.  Subparagraphs 1.c through 1.e are owed to the same creditor. Subparagraphs 1.d and 1.e are duplicates. By September 2021, Applicant’s responsibility for 1.c and 1.d, as alleged again in subparagraph 1.e, was terminated some time after the issuance of the SOR.  The  debt  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.f,  totaling  $5,379,  is  a  credit  card  debt. Applicant has contacted representatives of the creditor approximately 20 times to arrange a payment plan, and no one has been able to find a record that she owes it.  The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.g, totaling $45,000, is delinquent payroll taxes related to the failure of Applicant’s business.  Between 2016 and 2020, the IRS applied approximately $17,000 of refunds from Applicant’s personal income tax returns to her business delinquency.  In 2021, Applicant made two payments towards the satisfaction of her tax debt, totaling $390.  Recently, Applicant contacted the IRS to arrange a payment 3 plan.  Her  request  was  rejected,  and  the  account  was  placed  in  non-collectible  status because the IRS agent concluded that she did not have enough disposable income to execute a payment plan at this time.  Applicant maintains a budget. She has $243 of monthly disposable income.  