In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, and she denied SOR ¶ 1.d. Applicant’s admissions and  the credit reports in the record support the SOR allegations. Additional findings follow. Applicant is 52 years old, and she has been employed by a government contractor as a business analyst since July 2019. Her annual salary is about $52,762. In 2016, she received an associate’s degree. She has been married for 29 years, and she has six adult children. She requires eligibility for a DOD secret security clearance in order to perform specific duties for her employer.  Financial Considerations The SOR alleges a previous Chapter 7 bankruptcy case filed by Applicant and her spouse in December 2013, and three delinquent debts. Two of the three debts are student loans referred to the U.S. Department of Education  for collection, and the final debt is a medical account referred for collection. Applicant denied the medical account in her SOR response because this debt has been paid in full.  SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant and her spouse filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection in December 2013. The case was discharged by the bankruptcy court in March 2014. Applicant stated that the debts that were included in the case totaled about $70,000 and were mostly medical accounts. Her spouse was unemployed at that time and suffered from  health  complications  after  their  medical  insurance  had  lapsed.  In  addition,  their youngest son got into serious trouble and they had pay significant legal fees to provide an attorney for him.  SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c allege that Applicant owes a total of $73,739 for two delinquent student loans that were placed with the Dept. ED for collection in about 2018. The student loans  are  currently  deferred  due  to  the  COVID-19  relief  pause  enacted  by  the 2 government.   Student  loan   payments  are  to   begin   after  December  31,   2022.   It   is  her intention to repay her student loans.   Applicant  stated  during  her  January  2021  background  interview  that  she  was directed in about 2017 to make $1,200 monthly payments for her student loans. She could not  afford  the  monthly  payment,  and  requested  to  be  placed  into  the  income-driven student  loan payment plan.  Her payments  were  lowered  to $800 monthly.  Her spouse had been laid-off by his employer, and she was still unable to make the lower monthly student loan payments. In 2020, she submitted another income-driven application with her student loan creditor. Shortly after submitting the application, her student loans were deferred due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She also submitted a student loan consolidation application with Direct Loans. As of January 2022, Applicant provided documentation that she had successfully rehabilitated her student loans. Her monthly payments beginning in about January 2023 will be about $288.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant owes $422 for a medical account that has been referred for collection. She provided sufficient documentation showing that this account has been paid.  Applicant began to experience financial problems in about 2017 after her spouse suffered from various medical issues without health insurance coverage and inconsistent employment.  At  the  time  of  the  hearing,  he  was  unemployed  and  no  longer  receiving unemployment  benefits.  They  recently  sold  their  house,  paid  off  their  debts  with  the money,  and  moved  into  an  apartment.  Since  July  2019,  they  have  been  covered  by medical insurance through her employer. She now manages the apartment complex and receives an apartment rent-free plus a monthly salary of $685. She is able to live within her means, and she has not developed any new delinquent debt. She is committed to maintaining her financial responsibilities in a productive manner.  Applicant  provided  a  financial  summary  and  monthly  budget  post-hearing.  After deducting her monthly expenses from her net monthly income, she is left with a monthly net remainder of about $1,200. Her budget included the student loan monthly payment of $288. She also participated in financial counseling after filing for bankruptcy almost nine years ago.  Applicant’s employer considers her to be a valuable asset. She was nominated for an award in 2019 due to her outstanding professionalism and willingness to serve others’ needs before her own. In 2021, she received an employee merit pay increase.  