Applicant  initially  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  and  1.b.,  but subsequently admitted all the allegations of the SOR with explanations.   After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with the defense contractor since 2014.   Applicant was married in December of 2015, and has two children.  Guideline   D  -  Sexual   Behavior,   Guideline   J   -  Criminal   Conduct   &  Guideline   E   - Personal Conduct 1.a.,  2.a.  and  3.a.  Applicant  admits inadvertently  viewed  child pornography from about 2000~2013. Starting when he was about 16 years old until his late  20s,  Applicant,  who  liked  “petite  girls,”  used  the  Thai  word  “dek”  for  “younger person” in  his internet  pornographic searches. Often, he accidentally viewed photos of underage girls.  Applicant has not viewed such images in nearly ten years. that  he A health care professional avers that applicant "would not have engaged in such behaviors  had  he  not  stumbled  upon  the  images  while  viewing  Internet  pornography.”  This  Licensed  Clinical Social Worker  and  Certified  Sex  Addiction Therapist  further  avers:  “based  on  my  assessment,  I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  any sexual addiction present.”  Applicant’s spouse is aware of these allegations against Applicant.  Applicant  has  signed  a  Letter  of  Intent  not  to  engage  in  such  conduct  in  the future.  1.b.  2.a.  and 3.a.  Applicant  admits  that he  paid  women  for sexual acts from about 2002~2015. These  acts  included   with   “prostitutes  in   Thailand   .   .  .   three   or four times,” and   at   massage   parlors  in  both   Thailand   and   in  the   United   States.  The   last   such conduct  occurred   in   2015,   seven   years  ago,  before  he   was  married,  at  “a   Bachelor Party” in Las Vegas.     Again,   Applicant’s  spouse   is aware of these  allegations against Applicant.  Applicant  has  signed  a  Letter  of  Intent  not  to  engage  in  such  conduct  in  the future.  2 