Applicant  is  48  years old  and married.  His  wife  is  a  registered  nurse.  He  has  a Bachelor’s  degree  with  additional  post-graduate  education.  Applicant  began  work  with his  current  employer  in  August  2016.  He  requires  access  to  sensitive  personal information  in  connection  with  his  employment.   Paragraph 1  The SOR contained five allegations under Guideline F, Financial Considerations, including the amendment discussed above. Applicant admitted all the allegations in the SOR  under  this  paragraph  with  explanations.  Evidence  for  the  existence  of  the  debts set  forth  in  the  SOR  is  found  in  credit  reports  of  Applicant  dated  August  14,  2018; January 15, 2020; December 21, 2021; and June 10, 2022.  Additional support is found in the Report of Investigation  of an interview of  Applicant  by  a  Government  investigator  on  May  13,  2019.   The  total  amount  of  past-due  indebtedness  owed  by  Applicant  is  alleged  to  be approximately $53,780. Applicant  and  his  wife   purchased a franchise from a national home-health-care company   in  approximately  2015.  In  order  to  fund  the  establishment  of  the  franchise  the HHC  recommended  they  take  out  several  credit  cards  that  had  introductory  interest rates  of  zero  percent  and  use  them  to  obtain  cash  advances.  During  the  introductory period, which corresponded with approximately the first two years of the franchise, they were  able  to  make  the  contract  payments.  Once  the  introductory  period  was  over  the credit cards began charging interest. At this point, Applicant realized that the business, 2 while successful, would not allow them to make the required payments going forward. In order  to  resolve  the  issue  in  a  proactive  manner  Applicant  obtained  the  services  of  a debt  resolution  company    in  approximately  May  2017.  After  retaining  the  DRC Applicant turned over negotiation of the credit card debts to the DRC and began making consistent  monthly  payments  of  $1,900  to  the  DRC.  The  DRC  was  successful  in negotiating  settlement  agreements  with  all  of  the  credit  card  debt  alleged  in  the  SOR. Based on these negotiations Applicant paid off  the newly agreed amounts through the DRC.  All  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  relate  to  the  business  run  by  Applicant’s  spouse.  The status of the debts set forth in the SOR is as follows: 1.a  and   1.e.  Applicant   admitted   owing   $14,801   to   the   collection  agency   in  SOR 1.a.  This  debt  is   set  forth   in   Government  Exhibit  4   at  page   2.  The   high   credit   for  the original underlying  credit card debt is $17,292. Date of last  activity is June 2017. Evidence shows that this is the same debt as that alleged in SOR 1.e. This debt to a financial institution  is set forth in Government Exhibit 6 at page 4.  The high credit for this credit card debt is $17,292. Date of last activity is June 2017. Applicant Exhibit E is a statement from the DRC concerning payment of the debt set forth in SOR 1.a and 1.e through a different collection agency then the one set forth in  SOR  1.a.  In  January  2019,  the  DRC  reached  a  50%  payout  of  the  $17,292  debt. Records from the DRC show the debt was successfully paid off in June 2021.  This debt is resolved.  1.b.  Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to this financial services company in  the amount of  approximately $10,277. In September 2019 the DRC reached a 50% payoff  agreement  with  this  creditor  as  shown  by  documentation  from  the  creditor. The  latest  credit  report  states,  “Account  paid  for  less  than  full balance.  Paid  charge  off.  Fixed  rate.”    This  debt  is  resolved.  1.c.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  past-due  debt  to  a  bank  in  the  amount  of approximately  $6,377.  In  April  2020,  the  DRC  reached  a  payoff  agreement  with  this creditor as shown by documentation from the creditor.  The latest credit  report  states,  “Account  paid  for  less  than  full  balance.  Paid  charge  off.”  This debt is resolved.  1.d. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a financial services company in the  amount  of  approximately  $5,033.  In  September  2019,  the  DRC  reached  a  payoff agreement  with  this  creditor  as  shown  by  documentation  from  the  creditor.    The  latest  credit  report  states,  “Account  paid  for  less  than  full  balance. Paid charge off.”  This debt is resolved.  3 Applicant  testified that he and his wife have  learned their lesson on  using debt. He acknowledged that the use of these credit  cards in this way did not work for them. However, he argued that he used good sense in obtaining the services of the DRC and using the  company to achieve  a  resolution  with  each of  the  creditors.  He  and his wife currently  have  no  past-due  debt,  and  the  company  is  still  in  existence  and  profitable.  Paragraph 2  The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for clearance  because  he  has  engaged judgment, untrustworthiness  or  unreliability.  Applicant  admitted  the  factual  allegations  under  this guideline.  However,  he  denied  having  an  intent  to  falsify  the  questionnaire  or  the subsequent interview. that  shows  poor in  conduct Applicant filled out  his e-QIP on July 25, 2018. Section 26 of that questionnaire concerns Applicant’s financial situation. Several subsections ask whether, within seven years  of  filling  out  the  questionnaire,  Applicant  had  defaulted  on  a  loan;  had  debts turned  over  to  a  collection  agency;  had  an  account  suspended,  charged  off,  or cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed;  or  had  been  120  days  delinquent  on  debts.  A different subsection asked whether he was currently 120 days delinquent on his debts. Applicant answered all the questions, “No.” As stated, Applicant had past-due debts, so this  was  an  incorrect  answer  to  a  relevant  question  about  his  financial  situation.  Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator on May 13, 2019. When first  questioned  about  delinquent  debts  he  demurred. When  confronted  with  the  debts set forth in Paragraph 1 of the SOR Applicant agreed to their existence. The ROI stated, “Subject [Applicant] did not report these [debts] on his security questionnaire, due to the accounts being in the process of being resolved.”  Applicant subsequently stated in his Answer, “I misunderstood/misinterpreted the question on Section 26 – Financial Record – Delinquency Involving Routine Accounts – My understanding was that if I go via a debt relief company then that means that I am not defaulting on my payments and I am agreeing to pay the amount that I owe.” In his testimony, Applicant expanded on these statements. He stated that he had a good-faith belief that working with the DRC meant that he was not delinquent on the debts since he was agreeing to the revised payments and payment plans in a legal and above-board  way.  Applicant  also  stated  that  he  believed  the  debts  were  not  in collections at  the time he and his spouse  went  to  the  DRC.   4 