Applicant is a 41-year-old consultant for a defense contractor. She is applying for a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  She  attended  college  in  India  and  earned  a master’s  degree  from  a  U.S.  university  in  2007.  She  is  married  with  two  children.  at 14-16, 23; GE 1; AE L) Applicant was born in India to Indian parents.  She married her husband in India in 2003. He was an Indian citizen living in the United States as a permanent resident at the  time.  She  came  to  the  United  States  in  2003  after  they  married.  She  and  her husband became U.S. citizens in 2018. India does not permit dual citizenship, and they renounced their Indian citizenships when they became U.S. citizens. Their children were born in the United States.  Applicant’s  mother  is  deceased.  Her  brother  lives  in  the  United  States  as  a permanent  resident.  Her  father  and  parents-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  India. Her  father  and  father-in-law  are  retired.  Her  father  is  wealthy  and  has  no  need  for support from Applicant. Applicant regularly communicates with her family and in-laws in India.  She  visited  them  usually  about  every  other  year,  but  she  has  not  been  to  India since 2019. Her in-laws visited Applicant and her husband in the United States for about six months in 2020.  Applicant received property from her family in India in about 2002. She estimated the value of the property at $75,000. Her husband also owns property in India with an estimated value  of  $200,000. They are  attempting to  sell their properties  in  India.  She has  a  bank  account  in  India  with  a  balance  of  about  $5,000.  She  plans  to  close  the 2  See https://www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-india/. A copy is attached to the record as Hearing Exhibit  IV. 2 account  the  next  time  they  are  in  India.   Applicant earns a good salary. Her husband is also successful. Applicant and her immediate family have lived in the same house for almost 16 years. It has an estimated value of $500,000, and they own it outright. Their assets in the United States total about $3 million. She is involved in her children’s athletic pursuits.  Applicant  expressed her  undivided  allegiance  to the  United  States  and her love for this country. She stated that this is “the land of opportunities.” She credibly testified that  her  family  and  assets  in  India  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  her  into revealing classified information.  Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  her  excellent  job performance  and  strong  moral  character.  She  is  praised  for  her  work  ethic, trustworthiness, dedication, and honesty.  