Applicant is 52 years old and married to his third wife. Their marriage occurred in January 2015. She is Korean and Applicant moved with his wife to Korea in early 2015. He has six children, ranging in age from 34 to 6. The two youngest children live with him, along with his wife’s two children. He is an honorably retired technical sergeant  from the  United  States  Air  Force  .  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  a  defense contractor  since September 2019  and  seeks to  retain  national security eligibility and  a security clearance in connection with his employment.  Applicant was on active duty with the USAF from December 1991 to September 2013, when he retired. After retirement, he worked in the oil industry until March 2015, when he was laid off. He was unemployed from that time until he began work with his current  employer. Applicant  stated that  his employment  situation  from 2015  to  2019  is what caused his delinquent debt issues. Since becoming employed Applicant has worked to resolve his past-due indebtedness.  Applicant was divorced from his second wife in November 2014. The requirement to pay child support after his lay off from the oil industry also affected his ability to repay his other debts, as further described under 1.i, below.  Paragraph 1  The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance because  he therefore  potentially  unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant financially  overextended  and is 2 admitted allegations 1.c, 1.h, and 1.i, under this guideline with explanations. He denied the remaining allegations. The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  had  seven  charged-off  or  past-due  consumer debts in the total amount of approximately $34,649. The existence and amount of several of the debts is supported by credit reports dated October 9, 2019; and February 19, 2021. They are also supported by Applicant’s answers on his e-QIP, and his statements to an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management on July 1, 2020. Applicant is also alleged to have not filed his Federal tax returns for tax years 2015 through 2019, and to owe back child support of approximately $27,918.  The current status of the debts is as follows: 1.a. Applicant denied that he owed $19,477 for an automobile loan that has been charged off. This automobile was repossessed in February 2015 because Applicant lost his job and could no longer afford to make payments. Applicant testified that he spoke with the creditor several times over the telephone in 2020 in an attempt to resolve this debt without success. There were also communication difficulties with the creditor due to the Corona Virus pandemic and the fact that Applicant lives in South Korea. He provided contemporaneous notes reflecting his contacts with the creditor.  This debt is not resolved, but Applicant has been actively working to resolve it. 1.b. Applicant has consistently denied that he owed a past-due debt to a telephone company  in  the  amount  of  $2,062.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  know  of  this  debt  until recently.  Applicant  explained  that  he  had  a  prepaid  phone  with  this  company  and  the amount of $45 a month was automatically withdrawn from his account. The 2021 credit report  submitted  by  the  Government  shows  this  debt.  The  Government’s  2019  credit report,  and  Applicant’s  credit  report from  the same  year, do  not  show any debt  to  this creditor. Applicant has recently attempted several times to contact this creditor without success.  Based on the state  of  the  record  I  find  there  is  insufficient  evidence  to  support  the  allegation  that Applicant owes this debt. 1.c. Applicant admitted that he owed a collection account to a county government in the amount of $341. Applicant stated in his Answer, during his July 2020 interview, and in his testimony that he paid $70 a month on this debt until it was resolved. With regard to this allegation the Government’s 2019 credit report stated, “Consumer disputes after resolution.” This debt does not appear in the Government’s 2021 credit report. It also does not appear in Applicant’s 2019 credit report.  Based on the state of the record I find there is sufficient evidence to support Applicant’s statements that he has resolved this debt. 3 1.d.  Applicant admitted that he owed a charged-off debt to a finance company in the amount of $1,855. While admitting the existence of the debt he also stated that he did not  open  it.  Rather,  Applicant  has  repeatedly  stated  his  second  ex-wife,  without  his permission, took out this loan. This debt does not appear in the Government’s 2021 credit report. Applicant provided documentation supporting his statement that he has attempted to resolve this debt.  This debt is not resolved, but Applicant has been actively working to resolve it. 1.e.  Applicant  has  consistently  denied  that  he  owed  a  collection  agency  for  a charged-off debt for a bank credit card in the amount of $580. He stated that he has never had a credit card with this bank. With regard to this allegation  the  Government’s 2019 credit  report  stated,  “Account  information  disputed  by  consumer.”  The  Report  of Investigation  from his interview with a Government investigator contains a read out of  telephone  calls  Applicant  made  to  the  alleged  originating  bank  regarding  this  credit card.  The  bank’s  representatives  and  Applicant  were  unable  to  confirm  this  particular debt.  This debt is in dispute. 1.f.  Applicant  has  consistently  denied  that  he  owed  a  finance  company  for  a charged-off debt in the amount of $9,819. He stated that he has never had an account with  this  particular  creditor.  Applicant  stated  he  contacted  the  creditor  but  they  were unable to find any information on him. This debt is found in the Government’s 2019 credit report but is not found in the 2021 credit report.  Based on the state of the record I find there is insufficient evidence to support the allegation that Applicant owes this debt. 1.g.  Applicant  has  consistently  denied  that  he  owed  a  finance  company  for  a charged-off debt in the amount of $515. He stated that he has never had an account with this particular creditor and believes this account was opened fraudulently by his ex-wife. He reported this to the creditor’s fraud department in 2020. The creditor investigated the claim  and  came  to  the  conclusion,  “we  were  unable  to  find  evidence  of  unauthorized activity.”  Applicant stated that he has a second dispute filed with this creditor since he believes  they  made  a  mistake  with  the  original  one.   This debt is not resolved, but Applicant has been actively working to resolve it. 1.h. Applicant admitted that he had not filed his tax returns in a timely manner for tax years 2015 through 2019. As stated earlier, Applicant was unemployed the majority of  those  years,  living  in  Korea,  and  only  receiving  his  military  retirement  pay.  He  has consistently stated that a financial adviser attached to the Air Force told Applicant in 2015 that he did  not have  to file tax returns if  his only income was  his retirement pay.  After issuance of the SOR Applicant worked with a tax preparer to file all of his past-due returns. The  tax  preparer  confirmed  this  fact  in  writing.  In  addition,  it  appears  that  Applicant’s income would have fallen under the statutory minimum required for filing a tax return. For example, Applicant provided documentation showing he made approximately $15,000 in retirement pay in 2015. The statutory minimum for that year, as described by the IRS, for 4 a  married  taxpayer  filing  jointly  was  $20,600.    1.i.  Applicant admitted owing a state child support arrears. The arrearage occurred after Applicant lost his job in 2015.  However, he has provided documentation  from the state attorney general’s office showing that the amount has been reduced from $27,918 when  the  SOR  was  issued  to  $17,208  at  the  time  of  the  hearing.  The  documentation further shows that Applicant has been making consistent payments of $1,700 monthly to cover  current  child  support  and  reduce  his  arrears.   This debt is being resolved. Applicant’s  current  financial  status  is  stable.  Other than  the  accounts  described above  he  has  no  other  delinquent  debt.  He  is  able  to  pay  his  current  debts  without difficulty. The primary debt he is resolving is his child support arrearage, which is being paid every month as described above.  Applicant submitted evidence that he has been unable to access his credit report online, due to the fact he lives overseas. He stated that this has impacted his ability to resolve the alleged past-due indebtedness.  Mitigation Applicant  submitted documentation  showing  that he is knowledgeable about  his security responsibilities.  Applicant had a successful military career, as shown in his DD-214. He has also received laudatory reviews in his current job, including a recent pay increase.  