Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer since about August 2018. He worked for the same company from about  July  2016  to  March  2018,  when  he  was  laid  off.  He  was  unemployed  for  a  few months before he was rehired. He served on active duty in the U.S. military from 2006 until he was honorably discharged in 2015. He has a bachelor’s degree earned in 2018. He married in 2007 and divorced in January 2022. He has custody of his two children.  at 30-34, 55; GE 1, 2; AE B, D, E, M) Applicant’s  Military  Service Applicant was the honor graduate of his boot camp. He was selected below the zone for promotion to E-4 in 2008. He deployed to Iraq in 2009 and was recognized with several medals and awards. He received nonjudicial punishment under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice  in about March 2014. He stated that he shared test material for a promotion test with another servicemember. He was reduced to E-4.  Applicant went through training to  be  a remotely piloted aircraft sensor operator in  2012,  2013,  and  early  2014,  and  he  worked  in  that  capacity  in  2014  and  2015.  He was  involved  in  combat  missions  resulting  in  casualties.  He  completed  20  combat missions during a 45-day period in late 2014, and he had more than 1,000 flight hours total. He struggled with how the missions were affecting him. He noted a change in his personality, and he had headaches and anger issues.  Mental Health Treatment Military Behavioral Health Center Applicant  sought  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  in  about October 2014. His medical records indicate that he felt targeted by his squadron since he received an Article 15. He was attempting to use a program that would allow him to transfer  from  active  duty  to  the  reserve.  He  appeared  desperate  to  use  any  means  to get  off  active  duty.  He  reported  that  he  often  became  so  angry  that  he  could  feel  his temperature  rise.  He  was  provided  an  anger  management  notebook  and  given homework.  He  did  not  complete  the  assigned  homework.  He  did  not  appear  for  two appointments, and a termination note was completed in March 2015.   Applicant  returned  to  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  in  June 2015. His parents were both diagnosed with cancer, and his mother has since passed away. His mother was visiting, and his family had an “intervention” with him and told him how different he had become. Applicant reported that he was having increased anxiety, 2 social  withdrawal,   increased   depressed   mood,  hypersensitivity  to   surroundings,  and severe  nightmares  with   homicidal  themes  of  killing   his  family  members.  He   denied suicidal or  homicidal ideation, plan,  or  intent. He  noted  that  he  “jokes” on  occasion  to  his wife about shooting  himself,  and he  placed a gun to his head at one point, but he  denied that  he  had  any  active  thoughts  to  end  his  life. His  wife   removed  all weapons  from  the home.  He  thought  that  inpatient  psychiatric treatment would be  helpful to  him.   He was voluntarily admitted  to  a  civilian  inpatient  psychiatric hospital the  next day on  June  10, 2015.   Inpatient Treatment Applicant was an inpatient at a civilian psychiatric hospital from June 10, 2015, to June  22,  2015.  His  discharge  diagnosis  was  major  depressive  disorder  ,  single episode,  moderate  to  severe,  with  mild  psychotic  symptoms;  posttraumatic  stress to disorder  ;  generalized  anxiety  disorder  ; depression  and  anxiety;  partner  relational  problems,  moderate;  and  job-related problems.  insomnia  secondary Applicant  was  prescribed  medication  at  the  hospital  and  for  his  aftercare.  The hospital reported: In   combination   with   individual,   group,   and   milieu   activities   his  mood   and outlook  significantly  improved.   He  was   very  much   engaged   in   treatment, and   by  discharge   he   was  no   longer  having   any  further  depressive, suicidal,  or  homicidal  ideations.  He  was  compliant  with   medications  and had   no   side   effects.   His  aftercare   was   coordinated   with   [military  base} representatives.   Military Behavioral Health Center Applicant  received  treatment  at  the  military  behavioral  health  center  after  his discharge  from  the  civilian  hospital.    His  medical  records  show  the following clinical impression/summary: The  patient voluntarily  presented  for medication  management after recent hospitalization  for depression, anxiety, and  nightmares.  He  was  diagnosed with   MDD,  GAD,   and   PTSD  at  the   inpatient   facility;  however,   the   patient does   not  spontaneously  offer   sufficient   symptoms   to   meet  criteria   for PTSD or GAD. Further, the  depressive symptoms he  reports appear  to  be directly tied  to  work-related  stress,  and  the  patient  has previously  divulged a  belief that  his symptoms would  be  entirely resolved  if  he  were  removed from   the   work  environment.  Psychological  testing   has   demonstrated symptom  exaggeration  and/or feigning  on  tests . Diagnostically,   these   results  complicate   the   clinical   picture  and   render  it difficult  to   determine   what,   if  anything,   he   endorses  can   or  should  be targeted  by treatment.  The  patient continues  to  maintain that his report is 3 that features . He  was started  on his  current  medication   regimen   while   inpatient.   We   will   continue   these medications  for  now,  as  we  continue   to   gather  data   and   determine   what symptoms   are   truly  present  and   amenable   to   treatment.   Regarding   the personality features, it is likely that the  use of quetiapine can target anxiety and  sleep  disturbance,  and  prazosin  can  decrease  autonomic arousal. We will  add  a  small  daytime  dose  to  see if this  alleviates  his endorsement of significant   daytime   hyperarousal.  Other  medication   changes   will  be deferred  until diagnostic clarity can  be  attained. He  does not  present with acute  safety concerns and  is appropriate  for outpatient management.   The  DSM-5  diagnoses  were  unspecified  personality  disorder,  malingering,  and rule  out  adjustment  disorder  with  mixed  anxiety  and  depressed  mood.  Under  the  risk assessment section, which primarily dealt with suicide and homicide, the medical record reported: Hospitalization  is  not  deemed  necessary at this time, as the  patient does not   present  a   clear  or  imminent  danger   to   self   or  others.  There   is  no current level   of   care.   Outpatient management  is  currently   most  appropriate   and   least  restrictive   level  of care. The  patient  is  deemed  to  be  a  reliable reporter and  is  competent  to make healthcare decisions.    for   pursuing   a   higher indication The last prognosis in the medical records in evidence was provided on July 30, 2015,  “Prognosis:  Guarded,  prognosis  depends  on  diagnostic  clarification  and  will  be worsened by lack of candor.”  Applicant  went  on  terminal  leave  shortly  after  the  last  entry.  He  was  honorably discharged as an E-4. The reason for the discharge was reduction in force because of his  rank  and  time  in  service.  He  has  a  100%  disability  rating  from  the  Department  of Veterans Affairs .  VA Treatment Applicant  worked  in  Afghanistan  from  about  January  2016  to  June  2016.  He returned  to  Afghanistan  in  about  July  2016.  From  2016  to  2018,  he  worked  in Afghanistan seven times. He has received counseling and treatment from the VA since 2016.  Applicant  stated  that  it  is  for  PTSD,  anxiety,  and  depression.  He  would  see  the therapist  when  he  was  in  the  United  States.  The  VA  reported  that  he  was  seen  for  a total  of  32  visits  from  August  2018  to  September  2019  for  PTSD-related  issues.  His treatment  at  that  facility  concluded  because  he  moved  to  another  state.   4 Applicant  has  been  treated  at  the  VA  at  his current  location  since  2019.   The VA psychiatrist reported: Again,  he  has shown consistency while  dutifully fulfilling  his obligations as a   patient.  This  includes  good   attendance   with   scheduled   appointments, being   truthful  and   forthcoming   when   expressing   his  concerns,  and cooperating  and  adhering  to  the  agreed-upon  treatment plan. Throughout this time, he   has not  demonstrated  any  disruptive   behaviors to   myself  or clinic staff. [Applicant]  has been a  model patient in our clinic.   Applicant  stated  that  his  mental  health  is  stable.  He  sees  the  VA  psychiatrist once a month. He takes his medication. He has coping mechanisms, such as going to the gym, listening to music and going to the dog park.  He finds it helpful to talk with a friend who was also a sensor operator. The friend understands what they dealt with. He credibly stated that he will seek additional help  if he needs it.  DOD CAF Psychological Evaluation - July  2021 The DOD CAF requested that Applicant undergo a psychological evaluation. The evaluation  was  conducted  on  July  16,  2021,  by  a  licensed  psychologist   who was contracted from private practice  by  the  DOD  CAF.  A  report  of  the  evaluation  was  prepared  on  July  26,  2021.  The  psychologist  utilized  a  clinical interview,  self-report  questionnaires, structured  personality  assessment  ,  and  medical  records.  The  psychologist  indicated  that Applicant  “exhibited  a  pattern  of  responding  that  raises  questions  regarding  validity  of the  results,” and  that Applicant “produced a profile that shows evidence of inconsistent responding and over-reporting of symptoms throughout the protocol.”  The   psychologist  found   that  based   on   Applicant’s  “presentation   and   recent history,  his  judgment  and   impulse  control  were  good.   But   there  is  some   evidence   to suggest  a   history  of   difficulties  with   judgment  and   impulse  control.”  The   diagnostic impression was: indicate inconsistencies   regarding interview,   review  of  his  medical  records,   and   self-report Clinical questionnaires, the   presence   or absence  of  current psychiatric symptoms. Review of his completed  MMPI- 2-RF   shows  [Applicant]   answered   all   questions  on   the   assessment measure,  but   exhibited   a   pattern  of  responding   that  raises   questions regarding  validity  of  the  results. [Applicant]  produced  a  profile that  shows evidence   of  inconsistent   responding   and   over-reporting   of  symptoms throughout the  protocol. While  there are  elevations on  a  number of  clinical scales,   including   somatic/cognitive   dysfunction,  emotional  dysfunction, thought  dysfunction,  interpersonal  functioning   scales  and   interest   scales, 5 there   is  sufficient  evidence   to   suggest   these   results  are  invalid   and   not interpretable  at  this  time.   Of   note,  this  pattern  of   inconsistent   responding and   over-reporting   of   symptoms  is  consistent  throughout  a   number  of records  and   may   be   reflective   of   a   personality  disorder  or   other   chronic disorder;  additional  evaluation   is  recommended   if  [Applicant]   would  be interested in  treatment to address these concerns. Regarding   [Applicant’s]  self-report  questionnaires,   there   is   evidence   to suggest  the   presence   of  psychiatric  symptoms.  However,  based   on   the results  of  the   validity   scales  of  the   MMPI-2-RF   indicating   inconsistent responding  and  over-reporting  of symptoms,  the  accuracy of [Applicant’s] self-report measures should  be  interpreted  with  caution.  . .  . Based  on  his MMPI-2-RF   and   self-report  measures,   [Applicant]   does  appear  to   be experiencing   clinical  distress,  but  due   to   questions  regarding   validity  and inconsistency  between   the   clinical  interview  and   self-report   measures,  a specific diagnostic impression is not available at this time.  In the summary and prognosis section, the psychologist wrote: As  a   result   of  the   above   assessment,   it  is   the   undersigned   clinician’s opinion  that [Applicant’s] judgment,   reliability, and  trustworthiness are not appropriately  intact,   as  evidenced   by  inconsistencies  in  the   clinical interview,  self-report  measures,   patient  history,  and   review   of  records. Based  on  a  review of National Security Adjudicative Guidelines and  DoD Personnel  Security  Policy,  there  is  evidence   to   suggest  [Applicant] displays  a   pattern   of   being   unreliable   with   his  behavior,  which   would impair  his  judgment,  reliability, and  ability to  properly safeguard classified national  security  information.   It   is  recommended   [Applicant]   engage   in   a thorough personality assessment to  determine  the  presence  or absence of characterological   conditions  and   engage   in   evidence-based   treatment  to address his difficulties with self and  others.   The  psychologist  then  listed  as  the  DSM-5  diagnosis,  “Unspecified  Personality Disorder.”  Applicant’s  Psychological Evaluation - February  2022 Applicant  sought  his  own  evaluation  from  a  licensed  clinical  psychologist  in February 2022. The diagnoses were  posttraumatic  stress  disorder,  chronic;  generalized  anxiety  disorder;  and dependent,  compulsive,  and  avoidant  personality  traits.  The  psychologist  provided  the following diagnostic impressions: [Applicant]   reports   a   history  of   multiple   mood   disorders,  including depression, bipolar disorder , anxiety, and  PTSD. There is also  a   past  diagnosis   of  unspecified   personality   disorder;  however,  the applicant  feels  this  was  a   misdiagnosis  and   the   problematic  traits  were 6 actually symptoms of untreated  bipolar disorder. He stated  that he  is now being treated  effectively for bipolar disorder by a psychiatrist. Based   on   my  clinical   interview  of  the   applicant,   it   is  plausible   that  he suffers  from   manic  depression;  however,  his  insomnia  may   have   also been   due   to   other  factors,  including   varied   work  shifts,   nightmares, anxiety,  and  other symptoms of PTSD.  During  this examination,  he  did not describe  any manic behaviors, other  than  insomnia. His psychological  test results do  not  suggest  bipolar disorder,  but do  indicate  a  moderate  level of ongoing   anxiety.  Dependent,   compulsive,  and   avoidant  personality  traits are  also   noted  on  the  MCMI-IV,  which  may  be   the   traits   implied  by  other clinicians under the  vague  diagnosis  of  “unspecified  personality  disorder.” Still, it should be noted that I have  not reviewed those providers’ records. Regardless   of   the   exact  diagnoses   in  this  case,   it  is   apparent  that [Applicant’s]   symptoms  are largely   under  control   with   his   current medication   regimen,  even   while  working   in  the   same   field  that  led   to   his initial  psychiatric  treatment.   He  is  aware   of  his  chronic  mental  health that  he   will   require   ongoing   medicinal issues,  and   acknowledges treatment.  He indicated  that is open  to  returning  to  therapy, if needed. He stated  that he  is asymptomatic at this time  and  has a  good  social  support system.  His home  life  is stable now that  he  is divorced  and he  has  custody of his children. He  maintained  that  he  will  remain  compliant with  any and all treatment modalities, as  needed. He  does  not  feel he  needs counseling at this time. Empirical  data   suggest  that   individuals  with   chronic  mood   disorders  and personality  disorders   should   as   long   as  symptomatic.  If   [Applicant]   follows   these guidelines,  my  clinical  opinion   in   this  case   is  that  he   would   have   a   fair prognosis.   in  care remain Character  Evidence Applicant  is  active  in  his  children’s  lives,  and  he  volunteers  in  his  community, including  coaching  youth  sports.  He  called  witnesses  and  submitted  documents  and letters attesting to his excellent work performance,  strong moral character, and mental stability. He is praised for his trustworthiness, reliability, judgment, honesty, work ethic, professionalism, loyalty, adherence to security rules, and integrity.  Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental  Disorders, Fifth Edition  Major Depressive Disorder The  criterion  symptoms  for  major  depressive  disorder  must  be  present  nearly every  day  to  be  considered  present,  with  the  exception  of  weight  change  and  suicidal 7 ideation.  Fatigue  and  sleep  disturbance  are  present  in  a  high  proportion  of  cases; psychomotor disturbances  are much  less common but are  indicative  of greater overall severity, as is the presence of delusional or near-delusional guilt. The  essential  feature  of  a  major  depressive  episode  is  a  period  of  at  least  two weeks during which there is either depressed mood or the loss of interest or pleasure in nearly  all  activities.  Many  individuals  report  or  exhibit  increased  irritability  . Posttraumatic Stress Disorder The  essential  feature  of  PTSD  is  the  development  of  characteristic  symptoms following  exposure  to  one  or  more  traumatic  events.  Individuals  with  PTSD  may  be quick  tempered  and  may  even  engage  in  aggressive  verbal  and/or  physical  behavior with  little  or  no  provocation.  They  may  also  engage  in  reckless  or  self-destructive behavior such as dangerous driving, excessive alcohol or drug use, or self injurious or suicidal behavior. Generalized Anxiety Disorder The  key  feature  of  generalized  anxiety  disorders  is  persistent  and  excessive anxiety and worry about various domains, including work and school performance, that the individual finds difficult to control. Personality Disorder The  general  definition  of  personality  disorder  that  applies  to  each  of  the  ten specific personality disorders is “an  enduring  pattern of inner experience and behavior that deviates markedly from the expectations of the individual’s culture, is pervasive and inflexible, has an onset in adolescence or early adulthood, is stable over time, and leads to  distress  or  impairment.”  Unspecified  personality  disorder  is  used  when  “symptoms characteristic  of  a  personality  disorder  that  cause  clinically  significant  distress  or impairment  in  social,  occupational,  or  other  important  area  of  functioning  predominate but  do  not  meet  the  full  criteria  for  any  of  the  disorders  in  the  personality  disorders diagnostic class.” 