Applicant  is  48-year-old  senior  associate  network  engineer,  who  has  been employed  by  her  defense  contractor  employer  since  March  2021.  She  seeks  a  Secret security  clearance  as  a  first-time  applicant.  A  clearance  is  a  requirement  of  her continued employment.  Applicant was born in Iran in 1974 and acquired Iranian citizenship by birth. She graduated from an Iranian high school before immigrating to the United States in August 1990, at age 18. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in July 1999. As such, she is a dual citizen of Iran and the United States. She holds a valid Iranian passport issued to her in May 2021, and holds a valid U.S. passport issued to her in December 2018.  Applicant  initially  came  to the United States  in the summer of 1978 on a tourist visa accompanied by her father, mother, and sister. While Applicant and her family were visiting  the  United  States,  the  very  first  reports  of  pre-revolution  chaos  and  street demonstrations  were  being  reported  from  Iran.  It  was  during  this  visit  that  Applicant’s parents decided to start the application process for the entire family to immigrate to the United  States.  Applicant  and  her  family  returned  to  Iran  and  witnessed  the  Islamic Revolution  of  Iran  unfold  in  1979  followed  by  the  hostage  crisis  and  the  Iran/Iraq  war which began in 1980 and lasted for about eight years.  Following  the  Iranian  revolution,  the  Shah  of  Iran  was  overthrown,  and  the Ayatollah  Khomeini  and  an  Iranian  government  hostile  to  the  United  States  assumed 2 power.   Applicant’s parents explained  to  her  later  in  her  adult life that the theme of the rhetoric for uprisings in  1978  resonated quickly  in  their minds as both Marxist  Populist,   and  Fanatic  Shi’ite   Islamic;  neither  of  which   ideologies   they   nor likewise,  the  Applicant,  could  ever  subscribe  to.   These  events  in   Iran  shattered  Iran- U.S.  diplomatic  relations   and   the  immigration   quota  for   Iranian  nationals  was dramatically  reduced.  As  a  result,  their  immigration  process  took  about  12  years  to complete. It was not  until 1990  that Applicant and  her  family were finally admitted to the United States. They have lived here ever since.   Applicant’s mother is an interior designer who was educated in the U.S., and her father  was an electrical engineer,  educated in Germany.  Applicant’s  mother and sister became U.S. citizens, and her father passed away in September 2015 before he could attain U.S. citizenship.  Applicant’s father worked in the private sector in Iran before moving to the United States. Her mother continued working as an interior designer after she arrived in the United States until she retired.  Applicant’s mother lives with her in her residence.  Applicant’s sister is married to a U.S.-born chemical engineer and employed as a university professor in the field of environmental  science.    Applicant  has no close or  continuing contacts  with anyone in Iran.  Applicant and her sister live relatively close to each other and visit each other on average of once a month.  Applicant  completed  all  of  her  post-high  school  education  in  the  United  States. She was awarded a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering in September 1997,  and  a  Master  of  Science  degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  January  1999.  She has never married and has no dependents.  Applicant was a top student  and qualified  for scholarships.  For the past 20 years of her  professional life  in the United States, she has been fortunate and privileged to be mentored by some of the best  technical  and  business  leaders  in  her  field.  She  has  always  been  involved  in  the early  development  of  cutting-edge  communications  systems  and  technologies  .    She  received  a commending her for contributions to the growth of the communications industry from a professional society.  represented  companies Applicant  has  participated  and international standardization and regulatory bodies and has been a technical editor of standards. As such,  throughout  her  professional  career,  she  has  been  exposed  to  sensitive  and confidential information and trained by intellectual property attorneys on the methods of safeguarding  not  only  the  intellectual  property,  but  also  the  “know-how.”  She  assures that having access to classified information and the implied responsibility to safeguard and protect such information is always on her mind.  in Applicant  has  been  awarded  six  U.S.  patents,  is  a  member  of  two  prestigious engineering professional organization, and has made two significant book contributions in  the  electrical  engineering  field.    Applicant’s  2020  Federal  Income Tax Return Form 1040 reflects combined gross income of $183,990.  She owns a home valued at $1.618 million. As of June 17, 2022, she owed $413,375 to her mortgage company and her monthly mortgage payments were $3,138. Her FICO score 3 is 749.  She has fine arts in her residence with a 2011 appraised  value  of  $82,737.    As  of  May  31,  2022,  her  checking  account had  a  balance  of  $12,414.    She  is  registered  to  vote  in  the  United  States  and exercises  that  right  to  vote.  She  does  not  vote  in  Iranian  elections.  She  has  no  real estate or business assets in Iran, apart from the personal property discussed infra.   She has a valid driver’s license.  Foreign Influence The   sole   allegation  under  this   concern  alleges  that   Applicant  has  personal property  in   Iran   valued  at  approximately  $600,000.     The   Government became aware of these holdings when she self-reported them  in  her  October  6, 2019, SF-86,  and  in  her March 3, 2020,  Office of Personnel  Management  interview. In  her SF- 86,  she  reported  acquiring  these  holdings  in   October   1974.     In   her  SOR Answer,   Applicant   admitted   this  allegation   with  clarification.  Her  reported   foreign financial  interests  are   her  share   of  personal   property  assets   that  she   and   her  sister inherited   directly   from   their   maternal  grandparents   when   they  passed   away.  Applicant and  her  sister received  an equal  interest in the inheritance.  The personal  property held in   Iran   consists  of   hand-crafted  silver  and  glass  objects  and  original  paintings    that  have   been  in   the  family  a  “[h]undred  and   eighty   years  or   so”  and   are stored at  a  secure “vault-like”  commercial  storage  facility in  Iran.    Post-hearing,  Applicant’s  counsel   submitted explanatory   family  photos  with  some  of  the   artwork  in   storage   highlighted  in  red.   Applicant and her sister intend to  keep these heirlooms  in  storage with the hope that in  the future relations between the United States and  Iran will  improve and they will be able to bring  these heirlooms  to the  United States legally.  The current  Iranian export restrictions did not exist until the Iranian revolution.  Having  been born in  Iran, Applicant   maintains  her  Iranian  passport   because  she  would   not  be  allowed  to  enter Iran  with  a  U.S.  passport.  Furthermore,  it  would  be  difficult  if  not  impossible  for Applicant to  dispose of or sell  any of  the heirlooms  unless she has an Iranian  passport. Applicant is  willing to give up her Iranian passport  when  this issue is resolved.  Iranian customs prohibit the export of antiques and  original artwork, which  is the reason that Applicant’s family was unable to  export any of those items at the time they immigrated  to the United States. Hence, she  opted to place  them in  a storage  facility in the hopes that Iran  would ease  their  export regulations  in  the future. Additionally, as a U.S. citizen, and  because Iran is presently  a sanctioned country,  Applicant is prohibited from  engaging  in  any  business   dealings  to  sell   or  send  proceeds  back  to   the  United States without  an OFAC  license.  Based on  Applicant’s research,  it  appears that OFAC grants  permission   to  U.S.  persons  to  sell   inherited   real   or  personal   properties   in   Iran.  However, Applicant stated since there is no direct banking relationship between the United States and Iran, bringing the sale proceeds to the United States still remains 4 complex and risky. It is well known that the foreign exchange houses in Iran charge a premium  on  top  of  the  exchange  rate  to  transfer  funds  through  a  third  country  to  the United  States.  These  exchange  houses  make  no  guarantees  whether  the  funds  will arrive  safely  in  the  United  States  as  the  intermediary  banks  can  also  block  the  funds based  on  their  own  governing  rules  and  regulations  beyond  OFAC.   Applicant  pays  the  storage  facility  annual  cash  payments  of  120  Iranian  Rial   in-person  on  behalf  of  her  sister  and  herself.  When  Applicant  paid  the  120  IRR two years ago, this amount equated to $11 under the then current exchange rate. The $600,000  valuation  was  done  in  1978,  forty  plus  years  ago  when  Applicant’s grandparents passed away. The collection has not been appraised since then. Applicant concedes that it is generally true that art and antiques maintain or appreciate value over time.  However,  the  Iranian  currency  has  dramatically  lost  its  value  since  the  1979 revolution.  As  a  reference,  at  the  time  of  the  revolution  one  U.S.  dollar  was  being exchanged for around 70 IRR and today it is being exchanged for around 280,000 IRR, about 4,000 times reduction in value. Given this severe depreciation of the Iranian Rial, it is very likely that today’s reappraised value of the collection, in U.S. dollars, would be much less than the original appraised value. In short, Applicant stated, “[s]o I honestly cannot  say  is  it  a  greater  value,  lower  value,  where  it  is.  It’s  just  I  don’t  know.”   Post-hearing, Applicant’s counsel submitted a brief history  of  the  exchange  rate  in  Iran,  and  articles  that  discussed  the  substantial devaluation of the IRR from 1980 to 2016 and from 2018 to 2022.  Because Applicant does not intend to sell the heirlooms, she has not had a more recent  appraisal.  If  the  assets  were  forcibly  seized,  the  loss  of  the  assets  would  not place Applicant in a position for influence or coercion because of her income, real estate holdings,  and  continuing  employment  in  the  United  States.  The  heirlooms  have  great sentimental  significance,  and  it  is  Applicant’s  intent  to  maintain  control  of  them.  It symbolizes her Persian cultural heritage, and she would very much prefer to eventually have the heirlooms displayed in her own home in the United States. She has opted to preserve  and  store  the  heirlooms  in  Iran  in  the  hopes  of  being  able  to  legally  export them from Iran. It was and remains her mother’s wish that Applicant and her sister have these  family  heirlooms.    Applicant  has  not  given  any  thought  to the  disposition  of  the  heirlooms  in  Iran  should  the  import  restrictions  still  be  in  effect after she and her  sister  pass away.    If the  Iranian regime  should  change  in the future, Applicant has no intention of ever moving back to Iran. Her whole career, life, family, and friends are in the United States. She stated, “I have no reason to go back.”  Applicant assured that if for any unforeseen reason, her heirlooms were forcefully seized  by  the  Iranian  government  she  will  forego  her  financial  interests.  The  financial loss  of  the  heirlooms  would  not  place  her  in  any  possible  position  for  influence  or coercion.  She  has  a  strong  sense  of  ethics,  earns  a  substantial  income,  owns  the property  she  lives  in,  personally  manages  her  mother’s  three  rental  investment properties valued at “close to $3 million,” and owns a stock investment portfolio valued 5 at a much greater value then the assets in question.  If she was ever approached by any foreign government official attempting to put pressure on her to reveal classified information, she would report them to the authorities.  Applicant travels to Iran “[p]robably once a year, if I have to.” She most recently accompanied her then 77-year-old mother for a three-week visit to Iran in 2022 to have some specialized dental work done. Covid restrictions were in place and Applicant and her  mother  did  not  visit  anyone.  During  this  visit,  Applicant  paid  the  storage  facility where  her  family  heirlooms  are  being  stored  their  fee  in  IRR  cash.  She  typically  pays her storage fees “for multiple years” at a time. When making storage fee payments, she tries to give herself a cushion because of the yearly inflation rate, which recently was at “46,  47  percent.”    She  visited  Iran  in  2021  to  renew  her  Iranian  passport, which she must do every five years. As of her hearing date, she had no immediate visits to Iran planned. The frequency of her visits to Iran have varied. For example, the year her father died she visited Iran three times. And there have been periods of time where she has not visited Iran for two or three years.  During  her  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  her  Iranian  passport  was  stored  in  a bank  safe  deposit  box.  She  stated  that  if  required  she  would  surrender  her  Iranian passport  to  her  facility  security  officer  .    Post-hearing, Applicant’s  counsel  submitted  an  Industrial  Security  Letter  dated  January  15,  2019.  In summary,  that  letter  stated  that  cleared  contractors  who  have  retained  a  cleared foreign  passport,  based  on  DoD  directions  or  personnel  security employee’s adjudicative  decisions,  should  immediately  return  the  foreign  passport,  or  identity  card to the cleared employee. Upon return the foreign passport to the cleared employee, the FSO will remind the cleared employee of their responsibility to enter and exit the United States using their U.S. passport. The cleared contractor would submit an incident report if  any  cleared  employees  report  uses  of  a  foreign  passport  to  enter  or  exit  the  United States.  Applicant submitted a notarized statement of intent dated July 12, 2022, in which she  stated  that  she  would  never  use  her  Iranian  passport  for  any  other  reason  other than to maintain the safety of family heirlooms, that she has in her possession a valid Iranian  passport,  that  the  only  reason  she  has  an  Iranian  passport  is  to  secure  and maintain  the  safety  of  her  family  heirlooms,  and  that  she  will  not  use  her  Iranian passport  for  any  other  purpose  except  to  maintain  the  safety  of  her  family  heirlooms. When not in use, she will secure her Iranian passport in her safe deposit box. She will notify her FSO of the date she removes her Iranian passport from her safe deposit box and of the date she returns it to the safe deposit box. Lastly, her FSO informed her that he will no longer take custody of foreign passports of employees.  Except  for Applicant’s  immediate family  residing in the  United States,  no one is aware of this heirlooms collection. Even the managers of the commercial storage facility in  Iran  are  not  fully  aware  of  the  contents  in  the  storage  container.  This  property  is unlike  real  estate  or  a  bank  account,  which  would  be  registered  under  her  name  and easily  traced  back  to  her.    Applicant  has  no  reason  to  believe  that  the Iranian government has any knowledge of these items.  She opines that the 6 storage  company  in  Iran  would  contact  her  if  an  issue  ever  developed  regarding payment,  especially  because  her  family  has  stored  their  goods  at  the  facility  for  three generations.  Character Evidence Applicant’s witness is currently the vice president  of a defense contractor, a role he previously held with another defense contractor. He has held clearances since 1988 at various levels and currently holds a top secret clearance. Before beginning his career  as  a  defense  contractor,  he  previously  served  as  a  nuclear  trained  submariner for 14 years.  VP  also  submitted  a  reference  letter  on  behalf  of  the  Applicant  in  which  he stated: I interviewed, hired, and  managed [Applicant]  at  [defense contractor]  and during that time  I initiated the process to  get her  approved for  a SECRET clearance. .  ..  In my time spent  with [Applicant] I believe she cares deeply for this country and  realizes the deep  impact  the work we  do everyday  has on maintaining our freedoms and the American way of life. . ..  Today you have  the ability  to make a difference in  that equation by granting a security clearance  and   allowing  a  great  mind  to  do  important  technical  and scientific  work that matters. VP  testified  that  he  is  familiar  with  the  SOR  allegation  against  Applicant  and stated that he does not have any concerns about her being granted a security clearance based on his first-hand knowledge of her character. VP added that Applicant will be able to contribute to the national defense, and that she will resolve any conflict in favor of the United States.  Applicant  submitted  two  additional  letters:    from  the  director  of  business development  of  a  defense  contractor;  and    the  chief  executive  officer  of  a  cable company.  Both  individuals  know  Applicant  well  from  their  interactions  with  her  while employed  with  previous  employers.  They  described  her  as  having  “unparalleled integrity,” “work ethic beyond reproach,”  and said she was a “dedicated, hard-working, and  highly  ethical  employee.”  All  three  references  have  extensive  security  clearance experience  and  strongly  recommend  that  Applicant  be  granted  a  clearance.   Applicant’s  2020  annual  work  performance  evaluation the comments  made  in  the  reference  letters.    Lastly,  Applicant  submitted  photos  of her relaxing with friends and family in a non-work setting.  further  corroborates 