Applicant denied all the SOR allegations. He is 38 years old, married, and he has one child. He obtained his general educational development certification in 2014. He was unemployed from December 2008 to June 2012, and from September 2015 to January 2017. He worked as a laborer for the same DOD contractor from June 2012 to August 2015,  and  from  January  2017  to  December  2018.  He  has  worked  as  a  laborer  for  a different DOD contractor since December 2018, through whom he is assigned to work at shipyards throughout the United States. He has never held a security clearance. He has resided in state A since 2013.  The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  had  six  delinquent  student  loans,  totaling approximately $25,539.  The delinquent student loans are reported on credit bureau reports from 2017 to 2020. They were not reported on credit bureau reports from 2022.  Applicant maintained that he was a victim of identity theft given that  he has not attended school beyond high school, and never applied for student loans. He opined that someone  must  have  stolen  his  identity  during  a  period  when  he  briefly  resided  with acquaintances in approximately 2012 in state B , before moving to state A in 2013.  Applicant  first learned that  student loans were  incurred  in  his name,  without  his permission, in 2013, when he began receiving telephone calls from a school located in state  B  seeking  payment  on  the  loans.  He  communicated  with  the  school  and unsuccessfully attempted to obtain further information about the individual who stole his identity. He also telephoned the student loan creditor, who instructed him to file a dispute with the credit reporting agencies. He also telephoned the state B police department and attempted to file a report, but he was told he had to file a police report in person or online. He recalled receiving a garnishment letter from the school, in approximately 2015, but he did not recall whether his employer garnished his pay before he became unemployed that August. He telephonically disputed the student loans with the credit reporting agencies in 2017, May 2019, and October 2019, and he was informed that they would send a dispute letter to the school on his behalf.  In  2021, Applicant  attempted  multiple  times  to  file an  online  police  report with  the state  B  police  department,  but his responses to  the  questions did not permit him  to  do  so, and  he  was told  that he  had  to  file a  police  report in  person.  He went to  the  state  A  police department and  attempted  to  file  a courtesy  police  report  with  state  B, but he  was told that  he  could not  do  so. At one  point,  he  and  his spouse  discussed  hiring  an  attorney to further   assist   him,  but   they  could   not   afford   the   attorney’s  fees   with   their   income.   He intends to continue disputing these student loans on  his credit reports.  2 During  his  background  interview,  Applicant  favorably  described  his  financial situation. He indicated that he and his spouse, who worked as a nail technician, were able to financially support their family. He does not have any other delinquent debts. He has not received credit counseling. Since approximately 2002, he has worked with a credit repair law firm to try to build his credit so he and his spouse can purchase a home. He also monitors his credit through Credit Karma   