Applicant  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a,  alleging  that  she  failed  to  file  her Federal income tax return for tax year 2019, and SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, alleging delinquent student loans in the approximate amounts of $62,605 and $72,590 respectively. She also denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  2.a,  alleging  that  she  deliberately  falsified  her  security clearance application by failing to disclose the delinquent student loan accounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c. Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  been employed  by  her  sponsor  since  April  2012.    She  testified  she  received  a clearance in 2016, but did not list an investigation on her security clearance application.  She graduated high school in 1987 and enrolled in college that year. She transferred colleges before ending up at the university she attended from 1997 through early 2000.  She has one child, who is an adult. Her younger brother, who suffers from severe arthritis, resides with her.  SOR ¶ 1.a: failure to timely file, as required, a Federal income tax return for tax year 2019. Applicant testified her untimely filing of her taxes was an isolated incident and at the time she was going through a lot. Her uncle, who had served as her father figure, had passed away in December 2019. She was “handling his matters because [she] was his power of attorney with his medical and helping out the family with doing a lot of things that  he  asked  [her]  to  do  prior to  him  passing.”  She  testified  she mailed her tax returns in August 2020. She considered her 2019 taxes filed when she put the return in the mail. She explained that, when she received a refund, she considered the  issue  resolved,  not  realizing  that  the  refund  she  received  was  for her state  return.  She testified that she called the Internal Revenue Service  to verify that they had processed her tax return. The IRS had no record of her return, and she was instructed to fax the tax return in, which she did on July 30, 2021.  After waiting a week, Applicant testified she contacted the IRS again, and the IRS informed her they still had not received her return. She faxed the return again on August 19, 2021.   She waited another week, and the IRS still had not received the tax return. She made an appointment and delivered the tax return in person.  2 SOR ¶¶ 1.b-c: two education loans placed for collection. In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, she acknowledged these debts and denied the allegations on the basis she had not failed  “to  live  within ones means, satisfy debts, and  meet financial obligations, have poor self-control, lack of judgment, or willingness to abide by rules and regulations and the ability to protect classified or sensitive information.” When Applicant enrolled in college in 1987, she took out student loans. She took out student loans again each time she reenrolled after life events in 1991, 1997, and 2000 required her to stop her schooling. She was able to get her student loans either deferred or  placed  in  forbearance  in  each  situation.  She  understood  that  the  loans  were  still accruing interest.  When Applicant reenrolled in 1997 as a part-time student, most of her course work did  not  transfer,  and  she  was  forced  to  start  over.  Her  student  loans  remained  in  a forbearance  or  a  non-payment  status  during  this  time.  She  chose  not  to  make  any voluntary  payments,  citing  her  other  expenses  as  a  single  parent.    She remained a part-time student until 2000. She withdrew from school during finals when the mother died in the spring of 2000.  She did not return and estimates she is two classes short of her degree. Applicant   testified   she   was  notified   she   had   received   the   maximum   number  of deferments or forbearance and  that  she needed  to  work out  a  payment  plan  to avoid  the loan   going   into   default.     She  worked   with   the   Student   Loan   Rehabilitation Department   to   set  up   a   payment  plan   and   work  with   them.   The   payment  plan   was approved  on  July 1, 2019. Her  first payment  was due  until October 2019, and  after five payments the  CARES   Act  passed. She had  her  payments  suspended  and  her student loans placed  in  administrative forbearance. Her monthly payments  will  pick back  up  once  the  administrative  forbearance  is  lifted.   She  supported  her testimony with  documentary evidence.  Applicant fell  behind  on  her  mortgage  payments in 2013  after she  was  hospitalized and  needed  emergency surgery. Given  her new employment status,  she  did not receive full  pay  and  only a  percentage  of  the  surgery was covered  by insurance. She  “had  to  pick and  choose  what could  be  paid,” but she  entered  into  a refinancing  program  and  brought “everything  current going  forward.”    She  received  a  congratulatory letter in March 2021  from  her mortgage  holder,  acknowledging  her six years of good  standing and  that she  had  earned  financial incentives that would be  applied  to  the  principle.  Applicant estimates she has about $50,000 in credit card debt. She supports her daughter  and  her  brother,  who  also  lives  with  her.    After  paying  all  her standing expenses , and adding her student loan payments, she estimates she has approximately $300 left over.  Applicant has “little breathing room in her budget,” but the credit bureau reports 3 show  that Applicant  is generally current  on  her payments.   The  Guideline  E  allegation  stems  from  her  failure  to  disclose  that  she  was delinquent  on  student  loan  accounts  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c.  In  Applicant’s Answer to the SOR she denied the allegation on the basis her student loan was reported current and that she had confirmed that information with the Department of Education. She wrote in Answer: “At the time of my response, I correctly answered no. My student loan  was  being  reported  as  current  and  I  confirmed  that  information  with  the  U.S. Department  of  Education  National  Payment  center.”  She  wrote  in  her  interrogatory response that she had been approved for a student loan rehabilitation with a $200 monthly payment.    She  testified  the  only  thing  she  could  think  was  that  she  got distracted and did not think about everything that needed to be done during that process.   At  the  time  she  completed  her  security  clearance  application  she  was struggling to get herself together. Her uncle, with whom she was close, died in December 2019.    When  she  submitted  her  security  application,  she  listed various debts related to credit cards, medical bills, and her mortgage.  Applicant provided  two  letters  attesting  to  her  character and  trustworthiness.  The first is from  a  personal acquaintance  that  she  has known over 20  years, and  the  second is from  a  supervisor that she  has known  for over six years.  