Applicant admitted to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, 1.h, and 2.a.~c. He denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b, 1.e, and 1.g. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is a 54-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He retired from the U.S.  Air  Force  in  June  of  2010  and  has  been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor since June of 2010. He has held a security clearance since about 1987. He is divorced and has one adult child.   He attributes his financial difficulties to a failed  side-business, involving firearms, and to his divorce. Guideline F - Financial Considerations 1.a. Applicant admits that he has a past-due debt to Creditor A in the amount of about $6,530 “for computers.” Since April of 2022, Applicant has been making monthly payments  of  $320 towards  this admitted debt,  as  corroborated  by documentation  from Creditor A.      This allegation  is found for Applicant. 1.b.  Applicant  denies  a  past-due  debt  to  Creditor  B  in  the  amount  of  about $1,001. He avers that this debt has been “paid in full,” as is corroborated by a document from  the  successor  creditor  to  this  debt.    This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.c, 1.d and 1.f. Applicant admits that he has past-due debts to Creditor C in the amounts  of  about  $9,276;  $9,349;  and  $36,928.  These  debts  are  related  to  his  failed business; and have been either “successfully settled” or “paid in full,” as corroborated by documentation from Creditor C.   These allegations are found for Applicant. 1.e. Applicant denies another past-due debt to Creditor C in the amount of about $3,177. He avers that this debt has been “paid in full,” as is corroborated by a document from the successor creditor to this debt.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 1.g. Applicant denies a past-due debt to Creditor G in the amount of about $689. He  avers  that  he  is  “in  Good  standing  with  no  Past-due  balance,”  as  evidenced  by  a document from Creditor G.   This allegation is found for Applicant. 2 1.h. Applicant admits that he was indebted to the Internal Revenue Service , for  back-business  taxes,  in  the  amount  of  $2,567.  It  has  been  paid,  as  evidenced  by documentation  from  the  IRS.   This allegation is found for Applicant. Guideline I - Psychological Conditions 2.c.  Applicant admits that since at least August of 2016, he has been treated for depression. He was treated by “several doctors and several different medicines.” These medications would work for a while, but then Applicant  would begin feeling  like  “a  zombie.”  As  a  result,  Applicant  would  go  off the medications for periods of “a couple of months,” as recently as February 2020.  2.b. Applicant admits that in November of 2020, he was involuntarily hospitalized for  suicidal  ideation.  However,  not  to  exacerbate  his  situation;  Applicant  intentionally loaded his firearm, backwards, so that it could not be discharged. He also spoke to his treating physician prior to  his hospitalization.   2.a.  Applicant  admits  that  in  July  of  2021,  he  was  involuntarily  hospitalized  for twelve  days  as  the  result  of  suicidal  ideations.      Prior  to  this  hospitalization,  in discussions  with  his  treating  physician,  Applicant  “realized  .  .  .  that  he  “was  just chemically off balance.” After his discharge, and with a change in medication, Applicant has “been 100 percent better since then.”   His treating physician testified that Applicant’s change in “the medication [was] definitely a turning point.” She avers that “his prognosis is  great  .  .  .  as  long  as  he  takes  his  medication.  It’s  a  chemical  thing.”  Applicant’s treating physician has no cause “for concern regarding . . . [Applicant’s] judgment, . . . trustworthiness or . . . reliability.”  