Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant never married and has one child from a prior relationship for whom he is  obligated  to  pay  currently  enforced  weekly  child  support  through  garnished deductions  of  his  paychecks.    He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May 2003 and a bachelor’s degree in May 2010.  He reported no military service. Since October 2010, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as a system design engineer.  He has held a security clearance since 2011.  Applicant’s finances Between   November   2018   and   December  2019,   Applicant   accumulated delinquent  medical  and   consumer  accounts   exceeding   $44,000.    Included SOR debts  are  as follows: 1.a  ;  1.b  ; 1.c ; 1.d  ; 1.e  ;  1.f   ;  1.g   ;  1.h   ; 1.i ; and  1.j .   These  debts are  listed  in  Applicant’s credit  reports as unresolved and outstanding.    Once  he was able to verify these reported debts, Applicant confirmed  the  following:  the SOR  ¶  1.j debt was previously satisfied;   he had   either  worked   out   settlement  agreements  with   the   creditors  ;   he   was  still   working   with   the   creditors.  ;   and      he   was 3 unable to resolve his two remaining delinquent accounts with the information available to him .  Applicant attributed  his  debt delinquencies to a  poor start out  of  college before he even   received   his   first  paycheck  from   his  first  employer  in   2010.    While   flying home   from   college,  he   was  stopped   at  a   local  airport  and   cited   for  having   a   loaded, albeit legal, handgun  inside  his checked  luggage  bag.  The  airport  citation  cost him   $8,000,   in  addition   to   added   attorneys  fees.   Additional  unexpected   expenses included   weekly  court-ordered     payroll garnishments  of   $650   to   cover his child  support arrearage  and  payments to  his student loan  lenders.  With   a   recent  promotion   and   salary  increase,  expected   reduction   in  his  student loans  due   to   the   student  loan   forgiveness  program,   and   his  son’s   reaching   the   age   of majority   ,  Applicant   stressed   his  “new roadmap   to   how  he   can   pay”  his  unresolved   SOR   debts.     His  post- hearing  submissions credited  him  with  resolving  his SOR ¶  1.j debt  with  a  prior payoff  and  payment agreements with  SOR creditors 1.d  ;  1.e   ;  1.f  ; 1.h   ; and  1.i   .  Before the issuance of the initial decision in this case, Applicant documented his payoff  of  his  SOR  ¶  1.j  debt  and  payment  agreements  with  five  of  his  SOR  creditors  His agreements were accompanied by scheduled first  payments  in  compliance  with  the  terms  of  the  respective  agreements.   Each of his payment agreements were concluded after the hearing and involved agreed scheduled  monthly  payments  to  be  honored  by  Applicant  in  the  future  and  were accompanied by scheduled first due payments. Still unresolved prior to the remand of this case were  his listed debts with SOR creditors 1.a-1.c and 1.g. With these three creditors, Applicant had been unsuccessful in resolving  his  debt  delinquencies  before  the  completion  of  the  initial  hearing  and  post- hearing proceedings.  Since  the  remand,  Applicant  has  continued  to  make  his  monthly  payment  in compliance  with  the  payment  schedule  established  for  each  of  the  debt  delinquencies covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.f and 1.h-1.i.  Applicant also documented his payoff of the debt covered by SOR ¶ 1.g with an $8,500 payment.  Altogether, Applicant addressed all but three of the listed SOR debts .  These three unresolved  debts  total  less  than  $1,000  and  do  not  materially  detract  from  his  overall good-faith efforts in resolving his delinquent accounts. In  his  hearing,  Applicant  represented  that  he  currently  earns  around  $100,000, and  nets  around  $5,000  a  month.    After  allowing  for  monthly  expenses,  he 4 estimated  a  net  monthly  remainder  of  around  $1,000.    With  such  a remainder,  more  good-faith  payments  on  his  delinquent  accounts  presumably  can  be reasonably expected.  Applicant reported no savings account, but did claim a 401 retirement account with about $120,000 in the account.  