Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  was  born  in Saudi  Arabia  to  Pakistani  nationals.  Applicant  has  been  employed  with  the  defense contractor since March 2019. He is married to an American citizen and has no children.   Applicant came to the United States in about 2014, and obtained a Master’s Degree from an American university.  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  His mother’s family lives in the United States, and she “has a Green Card.” She has “always been a housewife.”  Applicant’s father has an open visa for entry to the United States. He’s  a  retired 75-year-old  “Human  Resources  Manager.”  He worked  for a  government agency  for  about  “two  years  before  he  retired.  Before  that,  Applicant’s  father  was  a banker, and before that he worked for “a construction company.”  1.b. Applicant’s “much older” brother is a citizen and resident of Pakistan. He is a Lieutenant Colonel in the Infantry. Their contact is limited to about once a year.  1.c.   Applicant  has  two  other  brothers  and  one  sister  who  are  citizens  and residents of Pakistan. One brother “works in real-estate,” and the other is unemployed. His sister “is a homemaker.”  TR at page 20 line 24 to page 22 line 21.)  Applicant has little contact with his brothers.  2 1.d.  Applicant  has  two  sisters  who  are  citizens  of  Pakistan  but  reside  in  Abu Dhabi. They are both schoolteachers.   Applicant has little contact with his sisters.  1.e.~1.g.  In  an  “abundance  of  caution,”  Applicant  listed  six  cousins  on  his security  clearance  application  , who  are  all  citizens  of  Pakistan,  but  two  reside outside of Pakistan, one in the United Arab Emirates, and the other in Qatar. Applicant has little or no contact with his cousins.   Notice I take administrative notice of the following facts regarding Pakistan: Pakistan is an Islamic Republic. The Department of State has assessed parts of the country to be MEDIUM  or  HIGH-threat  locations.  During  2021,  there  was  a  lack  of  government accountability, and abuses, including corruption, that often went unpunished, fostering a culture of impunity among perpetrators, whether official or unofficial. 