Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b,  through  1.g.  He  denied  SOR allegation  ¶  1.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  48  years  old  and  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor,  as  “a Physicist.”  He  has  worked  for  the  defense  contractor  since  October  of  2017.  He  is divorced and has twine boys by his former marriage. He also has one female child, by his cohabitant.  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.,  1.f.  and   1.g.  Applicant’s  cohabitant  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  as evidenced by a naturalization certificate.  A graduate from an American law school, she has been practicing law since 2021.    Applicant’s  cohabitant  owns  a  studio  apartment  on  the  outskirts  of Moscow worth about $90,000, which she is trying to sell. Her annual salary is between $80,000~$90,000. She is not reliant on Applicant for financial support.  1.e.   Applicant’s 17-year-old twin boys are dual national of Russia and the United States,  and  live  in  New  Jersey  with  their  mother,  Applicant’s  former  spouse.  He  sees them “at least once a month,” except in the summer, when they “spend a month or two” with their father.   His five-year-old American daughter lives with Applicant and his cohabitant.  2 1.b.~  1.d. Applicant’s elderly, retired parents are citizens and residents of Russia. They are actively trying to emigrate to  Israel, to be close to Applicants’  sister who is a citizen  and  resident  of  Israel,  not  of  Russia  as  is  alleged.  Her  husband  works  “for  a U.S.-based  company.”  They  have  no  connection  with  the  Israeli  government.   Administrative  Notice I  take  Administrative  Notice  of  the  following  facts  about  Russia:  The  Russian Federation  has  a  highly  centralized  authoritarian  political  system  dominated  by President Vladimir Putin. Russia violated Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity in 2014 and 2022. Russia  presents one of the most serious foreign threats to the United States. I take Administrative Notice of the following facts about Israel: The State of Israel is  a  multi-parliamentary  democracy.  The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  issued  travel advisories  for  Israel.  Jerusalem  and  Tel  Aviv  have  been  assessed  as  HIGH-threat locations  for  terrorism.  However,  Israel  has  been  the  United  States’  closest  ally  in  the Middle East since it was founded in 1948. 