Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.e.,  and  2.a.  He denied  SOR  allegations  ¶¶  2.b.  and  2.c.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed with the defense contractor since 2008. He is separated from his spouse, and has four children, three of whom are adults.  Guideline J: Criminal Conduct  & Guideline E:  Personal Conduct Although it is not specifically alleged, most, if not all, of Applicant’s Criminal and Personal  Conduct  can  be  attributed  to  his  addiction  “to  Crystal  Methamphetamines.”   His  spouse,  whose  whereabouts  are  unknown,  also  has this addiction problem. Applicant has been clean and sober since February 21, 2007, for about  15  years,  and  actively  helps  others  with  their  sobriety.   1.a. and  2.c.  Applicant admits that in April of 1999 he violated a protection order vis-à-vis  his  now,  separated  spouse.  He  was  sentenced  to  “30  day  incarceration,” pursuant to a guilty plea.  1.b.,  2.a.  and  2.c. Applicant admits that in April of 1999 he was also charged with Assault, a felony. Pursuant to his “No Contest” plea, Applicant was initially sentenced to six  months  of  confinement  and  five  years  of  probation.  However,  in  May  of  2002,  he violated that probation, which was revoked, and Applicant was sentenced to five years of confinement. While incarcerated he joined a prison street gang.  1.c.   and   2.c.   Applicant  admits  that  in  January  of  2004,  he  was  charged  with resisting arrest, was convicted, and sentenced to 30 days confinement.  1.d.,  1.e.  and 2.c. Applicant admits that in February of 2007, he was charged with Unauthorized Entry of a Dwelling, a felony; and in March of 2007, he was arrested and charged with criminal contempt of court. In October of 2007, Applicant was sentenced to one year of confinement  and placed on five years’ probation.  2 Guideline E:  Personal Conduct The allegations in 2.a. and 2.c. have already been discussed, above. 2.b. Applicant denies that he falsified his 2019 SCA, in answer to  “Section 23 – Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity,”  by  failing  to  disclose  his  participation  in  drug programs  in  2007.  He  avers,  credibly,  that  he  “misunderstood  the  question,”  and “inadvertently answered it incorrectly.”  Applicant has since become “a manager of the program.”   His  character  and  credibility  in  this regard  are  supported  by  those  who  know Applicant in the workplace.  