In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.h  and  denied  SOR  ¶  1.i  with explanations. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the  following additional findings of fact: Applicant  is  42  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  three  children.  Over  the  last twenty  years,  he  has  been  consistently  employed  in  various  full-time  positions.  From 2007 through 2010, he took some college courses, but did not obtain a  degree. Since July 2018, he has been with his current employer as a review manager.  The  SOR  alleges  two  delinquent  federal  student  loans  totaling  about  $21,500 ; three delinquent credit card accounts totaling about $6,750 ;  a  delinquent personal loan  totaling  about $3,625  ;  and  three delinquent phone and cable bills totaling about $3,500 . In addition to  Applicant’s  admissions,  the  debts  are  established  by  Applicant’s  June  2021  and January 2022 credit reports.  Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  issues  began  in  2018.  Fearing  his  company would lose the contract he was working on, he left the job and took a $10,000 pay cut to work  with  his  current  employer.  By  mid-2019,  he  struggled  to  maintain  a  budget  and stopped paying on several bills.  In  January  2020,  shortly  after  submitting  his  SCA,  Applicant  contacted  a  debt consolidation  company  to  assist  him  in  addressing  his  delinquent  accounts.  He  also submitted a Loan Rehabilitation form to the Department of Education  to bring his student loans current. However, before he began making payments  on either plan, his wife’s  employment  was  impacted  by  the  COVID-19  pandemic.  Initially,  she  received  a reduced work schedule. Within a few months, she lost her job. Applicant abandoned the debt  consolidation  plan  when  he  realized  he  would  be  unable  to  make  the  proposed monthly  payment.  He  also  did  not  issue  payments  on  his  student  loans  as  the  loan repayments  were  paused  as  part  of  COVID-19  relief  efforts.  . . 2 Instead,  Applicant  made  budgetary  adjustments  and  began  to  contact  creditors individually  to  resolve  his  delinquent  debts.  In  December  2020,  he  entered  into  a payment  plan  with  the  creditor  for  SOR  ¶  1.i.  In  August  2022,  prior  to  receiving  the SOR, he sold his truck to free up funds to pay his delinquent debts. In November and December  2022,  he  settled  the  debts  reflected  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b,  1.f,  1.g  and  1.h.  He recently  signed  up  for  an  online  budgeting  service  that  includes  credit  monitoring  and debt payoff goals.  In  January  2023,  Applicant  enrolled  in  an  online  personal  finance  course.  He asserted  that  since  he  incurred  the  delinquent  debts  referenced  in  the  SOR,  he  has maintained on-time payments on his other accounts and has not experienced any new delinquent debts.  SOR  ¶¶  1.a    and  1.c    are  Applicant’s  federal  student  loans. Following  Applicant’s  January  2020  submission  of  the  DOE  Loan  Rehabilitation  form, payments on federal student loans were paused as part of the March 2020 Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act . The pause included several relief measures for eligible loans such as a suspension of loan payments; a 0% interest rate; and suspension of collection efforts on defaulted loans. See Federal Student Aid  website, https://studentaid.gov/announcements-events/covid-19/. . In August 2022, President Biden announced a plan for the forgiveness of various amounts  of  federal  student  loan  debt.  Litigation  regarding  the  constitutionality  of  this plan followed, and a decision by the Supreme Court remains pending as of this writing. In  December  2022,  the  DOE  emailed  Applicant  and  stated  that  the  pause  on  the payment of  student  loans  would extend through at least June 2023  and that he  would be notified directly when payments were scheduled to restart.  Even  though  payments  on  federal  student  loans  remain  paused  by  the  federal government,  in  February  2023,  Applicant  submitted  a  request  that  his  loans  be processed through the DOE Fresh Start Initiative and that an income-driven repayment plan be initiated. He explained that he submitted this application in the event he did not qualify for forgiveness of his student loans by DOE. He has budgeted enough money to resume student loan payments when notified by the DOE.  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  ,  1.g    and  1.i    are  delinquent  credit  card accounts that were either charged off or placed in collection. Applicant denied SOR ¶ 1.i because,  in  December  2020,  he  initiated  payments  on  the  account  as  part  of  a settlement agreement. These payments were completed in 2022 and the account was closed. In November and December 2022, he settled and closed the accounts at SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.g.  SOR  ¶  1.d    is  a  charged-off  personal  loan.  Applicant  stated  that  he contacted the creditor in 2022 to initiate a payment plan in 2023. He did not provide an update to this account in his FORM Response. 3 SOR  ¶¶  1.e  , 1.f   and 1.h   are  delinquent cellphone  and cable bills. In December 2022, Applicant settled SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.h. In his Answer, he stated that SOR ¶ 1.e was with a new collection agency and that he was working toward resolving it.  Applicant  began  addressing  his  recent  delinquent  accounts  in  2020,  but acknowledged that receipt of the SOR “expedited” his efforts. He asserted that, over the last  twenty  years,  he  has  either  held  a  security  clearance  or  undergone  successful background  investigations.  Over  that  time,  he  has  not  had  any  disciplinary  or  security violations.  