After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is 47 years old and a high school graduate with some college credits. He was married from June 1995 to June 2005. He has 19 year-old twins from that marriage; they do not live with him. He remarried in June 2005 and has two children ages 12 and 15 from that marriage; they reside with him. He has two adult stepchildren.  Except for a brief period of unemployment from January 2014 to March 2014, he has worked full-time since July 2011. From February 2020 to the present, he has worked for a defense contractor.  Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant  is indebted to the Internal Revenue  Service  for  $3,352  for  tax  year  2014;  and    failed  to  file  state  income  tax returns for tax years 2014 and 2015.  He admitted those allegations.  During Applicant’s October and November 2021 personal subject interviews , he discussed his financial matters. He identified seven accounts with nominal balances ranging from $61 to $864 totaling $2,404.  Those accounts are not reported on his January 3, 2023 credit report and are not alleged in the SOR.  Applicant also discussed three significant debts. The first was a child support debt for $32,000. In May 2015 he began a court-approved payment plan and paid off that debt in February 2021.  That debt was not alleged in the SOR and was not reported on the Government’s credit reports.  The  second  was  a  debt  Applicant  owed  to  the  state  department  of  revenue  for $14,146 of taxes for tax years 2014 and 2015. In 2015, he started a payment plan. He was on that plan as of his PSI. That debt was not alleged in the SOR and was not reported on the Government’s credit reports.  The  Government’s  interrogatories  asked  Applicant  to  provide  state  tax  account transcripts  for years 2014 and 2015. He  responded: “I was told  that [the state] does not issue Tax Account Transcripts at all. Only the IRS does. I requested [IRS] copies for the years in question  online.” He attached IRS transcripts for tax years 2014 and 2015. They shed no light on his state tax filings.  2 The third was a $14,434 debt for an auto loan Applicant took out in May 2015. In 2017, he changed jobs and did not have enough money to make his payments. The auto was repossessed in July 2017 and sold, which left a balance due of $7,000. He began a payment plan on November 19, 2021, of $300 a week to pay the balance.   This account was reported in collection on the Government’s October 2021 credit report.  It was not reported on the Government’s January 3, 2023  credit report and was not alleged in the SOR.  Applicant’s most recent credit report shows 10 accounts PAYS AS AGREED with zero past-due amounts and no tax delinquencies or tax liens.  His earlier credit report does not show any tax delinquencies or tax liens.  Other than Applicant’s admissions to  the  two  SOR allegations, there is no  other record support for the  SOR’s two allegations.  Law and Policies It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the that  security Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 . indicates The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2, the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the “whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision.  A2  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for access  to  classified  information  will  be  resolved  in  favor  of  the  national  security.”  In reaching this decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based  on  the  evidence  contained  in the  record. Likewise,  I have  avoided  drawing inferences grounded on mere speculation or conjecture. Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.” A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information. 3 Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information. Guideline F, Financial Considerations 