Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e and 1.i and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.f through 1.h. Applicant  is  a  28-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  been employed by her sponsor since November 2018. She served honorably in the U.S. Marine Corps from March 2014 through March 2018.  After leaving active duty she  attended a university for a few months before joining her employer. She was unemployed for about eight to nine months while in school. She held a security clearance while on active duty. She married in 2014 and separated from her spouse in 2020. There are no children from the marriage.  SOR ¶  1.a:  delinquent credit card charged  off in the  approximate amount  of $10,226. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated she had set up a payment arrangement. She included AE A showing her regular monthly payments for this debt on the first of every month.   AE N,  her post-hearing submission,  shows the payments from her checking account through her June 30, 2023 payment. SOR  ¶   1.b:   delinquent   automobile   loan   charged  off   in  the   approximate amount  of  $10,122. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated she had set up a payment arrangement in September 2022. The debt resulted from a co-signed loan for her former spouse’s vehicle that had been totaled.  She included AE B showing her regular monthly payments for this debt on the first of every month and that the debt had been settled on June 12, 2023.  SOR  ¶   1.c:   delinquent   credit  card   loan   charged  off   in   the   approximate amount  of  $5,104. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated she had set up a payment arrangement. The debt resulted from a credit card she had co-signed with her former spouse, who did not have a credit rating to obtain a credit card on her own.   She  included  AE  C  showing  her  monthly  payments  and  scheduled  monthly payments  through  November  2025.  AE  O,  her  post-hearing  submission,  shows  the payments from her checking account through her July 2023 payment. SOR  ¶   1.d:   delinquent   loan   charged   off   in  the   approximate   amount   of $10,122. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated she had set up a payment arrangement. The debt resulted from a loan she took out while she was going through 2 her marital issues.  She included AE D showing her regular monthly payments for this debt on the first of every month since October 2022 and that she was following the  agreement.  AE  N,  her  post-hearing  submission,  shows  the  payments  from  her checking account through her June 30, 2023 payment. SOR  ¶   1.e:   delinquent   account   placed  in  collection  in  the   approximate amount  of  $1,820. In her Answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated she had set up a payment arrangement. The debt resulted from a loan she took out while she was going through  her  marital  issues.    She  included  AE  E,  email  confirmations, showing her regular monthly payments for this debt from December 2022 through July 2023. AE M, her post-hearing submission, shows the payments from her bank account and includes her July 2023 payment. SOR  ¶   1.f:   delinquent   automobile   loan   charged   off   in  the   approximate amount  of  $1,684  In her Answer, Applicant denied the debt and stated she  had been paying this debt. Her car had been totaled and despite maintaining gap insurance through the dealer she still had a debt on the loan after the insurance settlement.  She included AE F showing her regular monthly payments from December 2022 through July 2023, the scheduled payments through October 2023, as well as a singular payment in August 2022 before the agreement. SOR  ¶   1.g:   delinquent   account   charged   off   in  the   approximate  amount   of $450. In her Answer, Applicant  denied the debt and  stated she had  paid it  in full.  She included AE G, an email dated March 4, 2020, showing her account was paid in full.  SOR ¶  1.h:  delinquent utility  account  charged off  in the  approximate amount of  $394. In her Answer, Applicant denied the debt on the basis the amount was incorrect. She included AE H showing her monthly payments and that the account had been paid in full in March 2023.  SOR  ¶   1.i:   delinquent   consumer  account   charged  off   in   the   approximate amount   of   $5,798.  In  her  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  debt  and  stated  she  had established a monthly payment plan with the creditor. She incurred the debt during her marriage when she purchased a pet for her spouse.  She included AE I, which showed payment history from September 2022 through June 2023 and AE L, her post- hearing submission, shows the payments from her bank account and includes her July payment. Applicant testified she started falling behind financially in approximately 2017 just before leaving the Marine Corps. Her spouse got into legal trouble resulting in her having to pay for her spouse’s court expenses, which were approximately $2,000.  She was also covering her spouse’s education expenses.  The period she was having difficulties with her spouse coincided with her period of unemployment while she was attending school.  Her spouse was employed during the marriage, and they filed their tax returns jointly.  With her marriage failing and both 3 cars totaled, she fell behind.  She also incurred some additional medical expenses when her health insurance did not start as planned with her new employer.  When the debts initially started to become delinquent, she did not have the income to make the monthly payments that she has now been making. She would make random payments on debts when funds were available.  With her 2020 separation and receiving  a veteran’s disability rating in  November 2022, which entitled her  to  monthly  disability  payments,  she  had  the  additional  income  to  make  monthly payments on her debts.  The regular debt payments she initiated coincide with her increase in income in November 2022.  