Applicant admitted both debts, SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, with brief explanations. His admissions are incorporated into my findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant is 36 years old. He has been married twice and he has three children. He and his second wife divorced in April 2023. He earned an associate degree in 2018. He served as an infantryman on active duty in the U.S. Army from 2007 to 2016, with a clearance.  He deployed to Iraq and Afghanistan. He was awarded two Army Commendation  Medals  and  four  Army  Achievement  Medals.  He  was  discharged honorably as a sergeant .  Applicant has a 100% service-connected disability as rated by the VA, and he receives $4,172 monthly in compensation.  He has worked for a defense contractor in aviation maintenance since 2018. He  has  an  annual  salary  of  about  $67,000,  an  increase  from  about  $55,000  when  he started.  He pays about $1,455 monthly in combined child support and is current.  The two SOR debts are established by Applicant’s admissions and by listings on a credit report from November 2019.  He also discussed them in his background interviews in November 2019 and December 2019.  SOR ¶ 1.b  is a past-due cell phone bill that has been placed for collection.  Applicant said he signed the account over to his father to help him out but his father did not pay the debt. Applicant documented that the debt has been paid and no balance is due.  2 SOR ¶  1.a   is a  charged-off  account related  to  an  old auto  lease.   Applicant leased  a  one-ton  truck  in 2007, when  he  joined  the  Army. In  about 2009, shortly before the  end  of the  lease, he was  to  deploy  overseas, so  he  drove  the  vehicle from  his west  coast duty station  to  State  1  and  put it into  storage. He said he  had  storage insurance  but not  driving  insurance. He  left his father in charge  of the  vehicle.  In  about 2010,  when   he   was  arranging   to   return   the   vehicle   at  the   end   of  the   lease,   Applicant learned   from   his  father  that   his  sister  had   driven   the   vehicle   without  permission   and wrecked  it. His father said he  would pay to  repair  it but did  not do  so.  When  Applicant contacted  the  leasing  company from  Iraq  to  recover the  vehicle, he  said he  was told  they would contact him  if there were  any issues and  never did so. He understood  the  vehicle would  be   picked   up   and   taken   to   an   auto   dealer  in   State   1.  He   assumed   that  is   what happened  but never received  documentation.   Applicant testified that it was his understanding that when representatives came to repossess the vehicle, they decided not to take it. He said his father told him the vehicle was no longer at the storage unit. He returned from Iraq in September 2010 to his west coast  duty  station.  He  assumed  at  that  point  that  the  vehicle  had  been  picked  up.  He never saw the vehicle again and does not know where it is. In 2018, the recovery team came to his home to ensure that he did not have the vehicle.  He has made numerous calls to the creditor’s asset recovery unit to find out what happened with the vehicle. He acknowledged that he did not know the true cost of the damage to the vehicle after his sister wrecked it. At some point thereafter, the storage company went out of business.  Applicant  acknowledged   that  after  returning   home   in  2010,   he   took  no   further action  to  confirm  the  status of the  vehicle. In  about 2018, the  unresolved  lease  appeared on  his credit report when  he  tried  to  buy a  house. He  said he  initially was to  owe about $19,000,  but  when   he   called   to   make   arrangements   to   pay,  he   was  told  that   the   full balance  of  the  lease  was owed   apparently since  the  vehicle  was never recovered.  He   believes  he   may   have   been   protected   from   paying   on   the   debt   by   the Servicemembers’  Civil Relief Act  when  he  was in the  military, but acknowledged that,  if so, that protection  ended  when  he  left the  Army.  Applicant  said  once  he  learned  that  the  debt  remained  unresolved  in  2018,  he contacted the creditor every six months or so. He disclosed the debt on his October 2019 SCA.  He e-mailed the creditor in early January 2022. The creditor responded that day and said they wanted to talk to him. Applicant wrote back in late March 2022, noting he had not heard from the creditor.  He then e-mailed  the  creditor’s  CEO. The creditor responded three days later and said  they were  “researching  your concern and will provide a timely response soon.”  No response was forthcoming.  Applicant  believes  he  is  “getting  the  runaround.”    He  said  he intends to pay what he owes on the vehicle if that can be confirmed.  He has not received a response confirming what he owes.  The debt does not appear on Applicant’s more recent credit reports, from April 2022 and May 2023.  3 Applicant  said  he  is  current  on  his  taxes,  has  good  credit,  and  has  no  other delinquent debts.  His recent credit reports support this.  He  is  proud  of  his  military  service  and  his  work  and  takes  his  security  responsibilities seriously.  