Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married in June 2006 and has two children  from this marriage.  He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2017.  He enlisted in the Marine Corps in January 2000 and served 12 years of active duty before his retirement in July 2012 with an honorable discharge.  Since December 2017, Applicant has worked for his current employer as a logs and records specialist.  He reported unemployment between August 2016 and December 2017 and  brief employment with another employer between June 2016 and August 2018.  Applicant reported another period of unemployment between July 2012 and May 2013 following his military discharge.  He has held a security clearance since 2018.  Applicant’s finances Between  2013  and  2017,  Applicant  took  out  student  loans  with  the    to finance  his  college  education.  Altogether,  Applicant  accumulated  student  loans 2 exceeding  $22,000.   Beginning  in  2017   to the DoE through an authorized DoE agent intermediary.   This  agent  intermediary  failed  to  forward  Applicant’s payments  on  to  the  DoE  as  required  by  Applicant’s  payment  agreement.  . The  intermediary  has  since  been  liquidated  and  is  unavailable  to  account  for  the payments that Applicant made.   Applicant has the  means to  pay his  student loan  debts as they  become  due  and is currently  in  good  standing  with  the  DoE  on  his student loans.  He currently earns around  $80,000  a  year from his  work and  receives an additional $20,000  a   year in Veterans Administration   disability  payments.  Based on a review of the record as a whole, Applicant’s documented evidence is sufficient  to  surmount  the  Government’s  prima  facie  case.  Applicant’s  evidence substantively  and  credibly  explained,  extenuated,  and  mitigated  the  Government’s concerns  about  the  state  of  Applicant’s  finances.  Under  the  Adjudicative  Guidelines covering financial consideration concerns, Applicant’s student loan delinquencies have been  extenuated  and  mitigated  under  the  applicable  mitigating  conditions    as follows: MC ¶¶ 20, “the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely beyond  the  person’s  control  , and the individual acted responsibly under the  circumstances,”  and  20,  “the  individual  initiated  and  is  adhering  to  a  good-faith effort to repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.” Addressing  the  allegations  of  Applicant’s  falsifying  his  e-QIP,  Applicant’s presented  evidence  of  a  good-faith  misunderstanding  of  his  being  delinquent  on  his student  loan  obligations  is  both  credible  and  convincing.  Based  on  a  full  and  careful consideration of the Government’s evidence and Applicant’s challenges, inferences and conclusions  are  warranted  that  allegations  of  falsification  of  Applicant’s  e-QIP  are unsubstantiated. Considering both the applicable mitigating conditions covered by Guideline F and the  absence  of  substantiating  evidence  of  falsification,  a  whole-person  assessment  of Applicant’s  clearance  eligibility  is  supported  by  a  sufficient  demonstration  of  restored financial responsibility by Applicant in the management of his finances to enable him to maintain  sufficient  control  of  his  finances  to  meet  minimum  standards  for  holding  a security clearance. I have  carefully applied  the  law,  as set forth  in Department  of  Navy v. Egan,  484 U.S.   518   ,  Exec.  Or.  10865,  the   Directive,   and   the   AGs,   to   the   facts  and circumstances  in  the   context  of  the   whole  person.  And,   I   conclude   financial considerations and  personal  conduct  security concerns are fully mitigated. Eligibility for access  to classified information  is  granted. 3 Formal Findings Formal findings For or Against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by Section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Guideline  F  :  FOR APPLICANT Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e: For Applicant Guideline  E : FOR APPLICANT Subparagraph  2.a: For Applicant In  light  of  all  of  the  circumstances  presented  by  the  record  in  this  case,  it  is clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  a  security clearance.  Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. __________________________ Roger C. Wesley Administrative Judge 4 