Applicant admitted all the allegations in  SOR.  During the  course of  the hearing, the Government withdrew allegation 1.f.  After a thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  64-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been employed  with  the  defense  contractor  since  June  of  2005.  He  has  held  a  security clearance since 2008. Applicant has a Ph.D. from an American university. He is married to a U.S. citizen, and has two adult U.S.-born, children.   Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a.  Applicant  served  as  a  finance  officer,  and  second  lieutenant,  in  the Taiwanese  Army  from  about  1984  to  about  June  1986,  more  than  27  years  ago.  His military service was mandatory.  1.b.  and  1.c. Applicant’s parents are citizens and residents  of Taiwan. They are farmers. His father is 94 years old, and his mother is 84 years old. Applicant has nearly daily contact with his parents by “video phone.” They are unaware of, and uninterested in, any details about Applicant’s employment.  1.d.  Applicant  has  two  brothers  who  are  both  citizens  and  residents  of  Taiwan. They are 57 and 62 years old, and  “run their own cafeteria”  in Taiwan. He has limited 2 contact with his brothers.  1.e.  Applicant’s  60-year-old  sister  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Taiwan.  She  is  a “salesperson for a food company.” Applicant has limited contact with his sister.   1.f. As noted above, this allegation has been withdrawn by the Government. Notice I  take administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  regarding  Taiwan:  Taiwan  is a democracy led by a president and parliament selected in multiparty elections. The U.S. approach to Taiwan has remained  consistent across decades and administrations. We do not support Taiwan independence, but expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved by  peaceful  means.  In  recent  years  there  have  been  multiple  cases  involving  illegal export  of  U.S.  restricted  dual-use  or  military  technology  to  Taiwan  or  by  Taiwanese nationals and companies. 