Applicant is a 47-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married in November 2002 and divorced in February 2012.  He has three children from this marriage .  He  remarried  in  August  2014  and  divorced  in  July  2016.    He  has  no children  from  this  marriage.    He  remarried  for  the  third  time  in February 2017 and divorced in April 2023.  He has one child and one adopted child from this marriage.  He is not  currently  married.    Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May  1994.   He  attended  classes  at  a  technical  college  in  2005  but  did  not  earn  a degree or diploma.  He enlisted in Navy in August 1994 and served eight years  of  active  duty  before  receiving  an  honorable  discharge  in  April  2002.    Between  October  2002  and  December  2014,  he  served  in  the  Navy  Inactive Reserve  and  received  an  honorable  discharge  in  December  2014.   Since  October  April  2014,  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  as  an inspector.  He reported brief periods of unemployment in 2013.  He has held a full security clearance since July 2007.  Applicant’s finances Between  2010  and  2019,  Applicant  accumulated  four  delinquent  accounts exceeding $23,000.  The SOR-listed debts are listed as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a ;  1.b  ;  1.c  ;  and  1.d  .  Applicant attributed his debt delinquencies to a number of sources. He cited his second wife’s becoming addicted to drugs and alcohol, running off with his car in April 2015 and refusing to return it.  Unable to recover the car on his own, he contacted  local  police,  who  recovered  the  vehicle  in  May  2015.  With  no  assistance forthcoming  from  either  the  police  or  his  lender,  he  settled  on  letting  his  lender repossess  the  vehicle  with  the  help  of  a  towing  company.  ) According  to  Applicant,  the  car  was  sold  at  auction  for  less  than  the  amount  owed  on the vehicle, leaving a deficiency balance covered by SOR ¶ 1.a. After being informed by the  car  lender  of  its  decision  not  to  pursue  collection  of  a  deficiency  balance,  he received  a  deficiency  letter  from  a  collection  agent  several  months  later,  demanding payment  of  the  deficiency  balance  owing  after  the  auction  sale.  He  iignored  the  latter from  the  collection  agent  and  has  since  lost  all  of  the  documentation  pertaining  to collection during his numerous moves.  Addressing the alleged $979 balance owing the creditor covered by SOR ¶l 1.d, Applicant  continues  to  dispute  any  balance  owing  the  creditor  on  his  third  wife’s  car loan.  The dispute can be traced to Applicant’s financing of a purchase of a new vehicle in April 2019 for $48,102.  In December 2020, the car, along with his tools, were destroyed in a shop fire.   With his gap insurance, he secured a measure of  financial relief. His gap  insurance  carrier,  in  turn,  covered  its  assessed  value  of  the  vehicle  with  a  final payment of $31,213 in January 2021.  However, his car lender disputed the  gap  insurer’s  total loss  payment,  claiming  the  payment  was  not  enough  to  pay  off the  car  loan.    Whether  the  additional  approved  $7,111  insurance  payment earmarked for his car lender payee was enough to cover any shortfall from the loss of the vehicle is unclear.  According  to  Applicant’s  account,  his  dispute  with  his  SOR  ¶  1.d  creditor  has never been resolved, and the lender has continued to hold him responsible for the $979 shortfall.  Still believing the gap  insurance loss payoff should  have  relieved  him  of  any  further  loan  responsibilities,  he  has  never  paid  the 3 lender  its  claimed  $979  loan  balance.    Subsequent  efforts  by  him  to  enlist  the divorce court’s assistance in revising the parties’ settlement agreement to direct his ex- spouse  to  pay  off  any  remaining  balance  on  the  SOR  ¶  1.d  debt  were  unsuccessful.  Applicant  cited  additional  burdens  placed  on  his  finances  by  the  2023  child support and alimony order imposed on him based on the claims of his third wife, and his own  failures  to  make more concerted  follow-up  checks on the  status  of  the delinquent accounts  in  issue.    His  furnished  documentation  does validate his efforts to refinance his home in 2022 to increase his available cash to better address  his  remaining  debts.    While  his  efforts  to  refinance  his  home  were unsuccessful, they reflect good-faith attempts on his part to resolve his debts. To   Applicant’s  credit,  he   has  since   resolved   two   of  his  debt  delinquencies  with either payoffs or payment  agreements. He documented  his resolution  of his SOR ¶  1.b and   1.c  accounts   with   payment  agreements   and   a   lump   sum   payoff   of  his  SOR  ¶   1.b account.    At  the  time  of  his  settlement agreements,  the SOR 1.b  debt was  in collection  status; while  the  SOR 1.c debt was charged  off.    He  had   fallen   behind   with   these   debts   during   a   period   of  unemployment  in  2013.  By the  time  he  learned  that his  second  spouse  had  not taken care of the  account, the account had  become delinquent. Similar circumstances prevented Applicant from timely addressing his SOR ¶ 1.c debt  payments.  As  a  divorcee,  Naval  reservist,  and  single  and  custodial  parent, responsible for his two sons, he encountered tough sledding in keeping up with all of his debts and let his SOR ¶ 1.c account slip into delinquent status.  Complicating his ability  to  address  this  account  were  the  child  support  orders  obtained  by  his  first  wife who had regained custody of Applicant’s sons.  Meeting his monthly child support obligations compounded his already strained finances. Applicant  currently  earns  $130,000   a   year   in  base   salary and   another $5,000   a year in  earned  overtime  with  his  latest  promotion.   Preceding  his promotion, he earned   $110,000   annually   after  starting   with   an   entrance   salary  of  $100,000.   . Before  his  divorce, his third   wife  contributed  financially  to  his family with  part-time work.   Applicant’s monthly expenses consist of mortgage payments , car payments , food  ;  car insurance  ;  utilities ;  and  child support   and   alimony  payments  .    He  estimated   a monthly remainder of $1,200  to  $1,500,  which  he  has  used  in  the past to  cover  medical and  plumbing issues.  Endorsements and awards Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  supervisors  and  colleagues.    Between 2018  and  2023,  he  received  letters  of  recognition  recognizing  his  contributions  to  his team’s  operations.  His  military  awards the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps. Achievement Medals awarded for his recognized contributions.  include 4 