In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 2.b, and 3.a.   He denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.    He  also  provided  extenuating  and mitigating information.  His admissions are accepted as findings of fact. Applicant is a 29-year-old systems engineer.  In 2012, he  graduated  from  high  school,  and  in  2020,  he  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in mechanical engineering.  He has never married, and he does not have any children.  Applicant  served  in the  Army National Guard   from  2016  to  2022.   He   held   a   signal   military  occupational   specialty      in   the   ARNG.  He   was discharged  as a  specialist , and  he  received  an  honorable discharge.  He did not serve  in a  combat  zone.   He did not receive any nonjudicial punishments  or courts-martial  while in the  ARNG.    He received  a  security clearance  in  2016  as part of  his  ARNG  service.     Information   about  his  education   and   professional experience is detailed in his resume.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse and Criminal Conduct SOR ¶ 2.a alleges from about March of 2013 to about May of 2019, Applicant used cocaine with varying frequency. The first time he used cocaine was around March 2013 when he was a freshman in college.  He used a small amount of cocaine, which he referred to as a “bump.”  Prior to May 2019, Applicant most recently drilled with the ARNG in March 2019. The next time he used cocaine after March of 2013 was in May of 2019.  His older brother provided the cocaine that he used.  He snorted a single line of cocaine on 2 four different weekend nights in May 2019.  He used cocaine because his brother wanted  him  to  try  it;  however,  he  did  not  really  like  it.    He  realized  that  using cocaine was wrong, particularly because he held a security clearance.  He does not intend to use cocaine in the future.  On August 31, 2023, he took a drug test, which was negative for illegal substances.  He visits his older brother, who lives in a different state than Applicant, once or twice a year on holidays.  SOR ¶ 2.b alleges in about June 2019, Applicant used the prescription medication Xanax without a prescription. SOR ¶ 3.a alleges in about June 2019, Applicant was arrested and charged with public  intoxication  and  possession  of  cocaine.  Applicant’s  brother  gave  him  a  bag containing cocaine in May 2019, and he used some and placed the remainder in his wallet behind a flap.  The small bag contained cocaine residue, and Applicant forgot that he put it in his wallet.  In June 2019, he consumed one Xanax pill and sufficient alcohol to be intoxicated.  He went to a concert and argued with a spectator about seating.  Applicant was ejected from the concert. He tried to reenter the concert, and he was arrested for public intoxication.  The police found the cocaine in his wallet and charged him with cocaine possession.  Applicant received pretrial diversion.  He was required  to  complete 10  hours  of  community  service,  to attend  drug  education,  and  to submit to urinalysis tests once a month for six months.  On June 5, 2020, he completed a 12-hour drug and alcohol awareness class.  The charges  were  subsequently  dismissed,  and  his  record  was  expunged.   He did not receive any disciplinary action from the ARNG.  Applicant  never  failed  a  drug  test.    He  emphasized  that  he  freely  and voluntarily disclosed his history of cocaine involvement and abuse of Xanax without being confronted with information about his drug involvement by security officials.  Alleged Falsification of SCAs SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant deliberately falsified material facts on his September 8, 2016 SCA in Section 23, concerning illegal use of drugs or drug activity. His September 8,  2016  SCA  asked  in  the  last  seven  years  have  you  illegally  used  any  controlled substance, for example, cocaine and crack cocaine? Applicant answered, “No,” and did not disclose his use of cocaine in 2013. In his SOR response for the alleged falsification of his September 8, 2016 SCA, Applicant said he completed this SCA as part of a Military Entrance Processing Station  process when he was joining the ARNG.  The SCA was completed with the help of a government representative who rapidly asked him questions.  He said, “I can only speculate that being rushed through the questions may have caused me to overlook the single instance of illegal drug use   from March 2013.”  He contended that the falsification was not deliberate, and it was isolated and not recent.  He said he also “made prompt, good-faith efforts to correct the falsification before being 3 confronted with the facts.”  He disclosed the March 2013 cocaine use during his April 2022 OPM interview.  Applicant’s  description  of  the  completion  of  his  September  8,  2016  SCA  at  his hearing was consistent with his SOR response.  In sum, the  MEPS interviewer asked the questions so quickly he did not remember his single episode of cocaine use in March of 2013.  He said he did not deliberately or intentionally fail to disclose that cocaine use on the SCA he completed in 2016.  SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant’s January 17, 2022 SCA asked in the last seven years  have  you  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances,  and  have  you  ever illegally  used  or  otherwise  been  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while possessing  a  security  clearance?  It  also  asked  in  the  last  seven  years,  have  you intentionally engaged in the misuse of prescription drugs, regardless of whether or not the drugs were prescribed for you or someone else? Applicant answered, “No,” to these questions, and he did not disclose his involvement with cocaine in May 2019 and Xanax in June 2019. In  his  SOR  response  for  the  alleged  falsification  of  his  January  17,  2022  SCA, Applicant said he was in a hurry when he completed his SCA because he had to catch a flight.  He  said  he  completed  his  SCA  before  the  trip,  and  he  disclosed  his  history  of cocaine use.  When he returned, he was required to complete the SCA, and he erroneously believed the cocaine use was repopulated on the second SCA.  The information from the 2016 SCA may have partially repopulated on to the 2022 SCAs.  He reviewed the SCA quickly and did not notice his history of cocaine use was not on the second SCA. He forgot to disclose his Xanax use on both SCAs.  His failure to disclose his cocaine and Xanax use was “due to accidental oversight” and not deliberate;  and  he  said  he  “made  prompt,  good-faith  efforts  to  correct  the  falsification before being confronted with the facts.”  When Applicant completed his January 17, 2022 SCA, he included his arrest for public intoxication and cocaine possession in June 2019.  He said,  “I was arrested for public intoxication and possession of a controlled substance .  The  cocaine  offense  was  a  felony,  and  the  public  intoxication  was  a misdemeanor.”  These charges were dismissed and expunged.  When he had his follow-up OPM interview on April 14, 2023, he disclosed his use of cocaine on four occasions, once in 2013 and three times in May 2019, and his use of Xanax in June 2019 before his arrest at the concert.  During his hearing, he said he used cocaine a total of five time, once in 2013 and four times in May 2019.  Character Evidence On March 17, 2023, and August 11, 2023, Applicant received achievement awards from  his  employer.    He  also  received  a  cash  award  for exceptional performance and an undated exceptional performance certificate.  He provided six statements from coworkers and supervisors.   The  general  sense  of  their  statements  is  that  he  is  helpful,  intelligent,  diligent, conscientious about safeguarding sensitive information, and passionate about his work. He has sound judgment; he contributes to mission accomplishment; and he is committed to working as an engineer supporting DOD.  