Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b.  and  2.c.  She  denied SOR allegations ¶¶ 2.a, and 2.b. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact. Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  employee  of  the  United  Nations  .  She  has  been employed  with  the  UN  since  March  of  2020.  Applicant  is  not  married,  and  has  no children.  Guideline B - Foreign Influence 1.a. Applicant admits  that,  in  the  past,  she  had  close  and  continuing  contact with relatives who  are  citizens and  residents of  Iraq.  She  has ceased  her contact with  these Iraqi  relatives since  receipt  of  the SOR  in June  2023. These  relatives are: her 70-year- old  grandmother,  who   never  worked   outside   of  her  home;  her  85-year-old  grandfather who   is  long   retired   but  never  worked   for  the   Iraqi  government;   her  45-year-old  uncle who  is a pharmacist;  her 56-year-old uncle  who  is  a  security  guard;  her 40-year-old  aunt who  is a  homemaker;  her 28-year-old  cousin  who  works for the  UN  in Switzerland; her 55-year-old   uncle   who   is  a   driver   for   the   UN  in  Iraq;   and   finally,   her   47-year-old   aunt who   works  for  the   Red   Cross.      All   of  her immediate  family, comprising  her parents and  siblings,  are citizens  and  residents of the United States.  1.b.   Applicant  maintains  a  bank  account  in  Iraq,  with  an  approximate  value  of $2,000.  This  bank  account  is  a  matter  of  necessity,  as  there  is  a  10%  surcharge  to withdraw funds from a U.S. bank account in Iraq.   The Applicant’s witness, a former FBI Agent and her UN supervisor, further explained the necessity to maintain an Iraqi bank account for those unable to leave Iraq on occasion and bank outside the country.  2 Guideline F - Financial Considerations 2.a.  Applicant  denies  that  she  is  indebted  to  Creditor  A  in  the  amount  of  about $1,344.  This  debt  has  been  settled  and  paid  as  evidenced  by  Applicant’s documentation.  2.b.  Applicant  denies  that  she  is  indebted  to  Creditor  B  in  the  amount  of  about $56. This debt has been paid in full as evidenced by Applicant’s documentation.  2.c.  Applicant is making  the monthly payments of $150 towards her charged-off car loan, which were agreed to by the creditor, as evidenced by documentation.  Notice I take administrative notice of the following facts regarding the Republic of Iraq: Iraq  is  a  constitutional  parliamentary  republic.  The  U.S.  Department  of  Sate  travel advisory  for  Iraq  is  Level  4:  Do  not  trave!  During  2021,  the  primary  terrorist  threats within  Iraq  included  ISIS  remnants  and  various  Iran-aligned  militia  groups.  Significant human rights issues remain present in Iraq. 