Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has worked  since  August  2019.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2012.  He  is  currently taking undergraduate courses. He will earn an associate degree in December 2023 and is on track to earn a bachelor’s degree in June 2024. He was married from 2014 until a divorce  in  2018.  He  has  resided  with  a  cohabitant  since  October  2019.  He  has  three children, ages nine, six, and three. His two older children are from his marriage. He and his cohabitant are the parents of his youngest child. He enlisted in the Army in 2013 and was  honorably  discharged  in  2017.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  2013.   In  the  SOR,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  seven  delinquent  financial accounts  totaling  approximately  $32,000.  It  also  alleged  that  he  had  a  delinquent mortgage account that was foreclosed in 2019 . These delinquent accounts consist of a credit card , an auto loan , a medical debt ,  telecommunications  debts  ,  and  a  cleaning  fee  from  a residential lease . He admitted the SOR allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d,  but  denied  the  rest  because  he  claimed  he  had  resolved  those  accounts.  His admissions are adopted as findings of fact. All the SOR allegations are established by his  admissions  and  the  Government’s  2021,  2022,  and  2023  credit  reports.   Except  for  the  foreclosed  mortgage  in  SOR  ¶  1.d,  between  2022  and  the beginning of 2023, Applicant resolved all the accounts in the SOR. He fell behind on all the  SOR  accounts  in  about  2018  because  of  his  divorce,  underemployment,  and unemployment.  He  also  had  health  issues  that  contributed  to  his  financial  issues  and was  recently  diagnosed  with  multiple  sclerosis  .  In  about  2022,  after  moving  to  a location  with  a  lower  cost  of  living,  finding  gainful  employment,  having  his  military disability  payment  markedly  increase,  and  after  his  divorce  and  child  custody  issues were largely behind him, he contacted creditors for the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c and  1.e  through  1.g.  He  made  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditors  and  satisfied these  debts.  For  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f  and  1.g,  he  paid  approximately  the  full balance. For the other SOR debts, he settled them for a reduced amount. I observed his demeanor while he testified and found his testimony, including his statements about the resolution  of  his  SOR  debts, to  be  credible.  He  also  provided  documentary corroboration of the resolution of some of these debts.  With respect to his mortgage foreclosure in SOR ¶ 1.d, when Applicant realized he  could  not  afford  to  make  his  monthly  payments  because  of  his  divorce,  he  hired  a company  to  advocate  on  his  behalf  with  the  mortgage  company.  However,  this company’s  efforts  were  unsuccessful.  He  made  the  difficult  decision  to  move  to  a location  with  a  lower  cost  of  living  so  he  could  pay  for  his  family’s  basic  needs  and allowed the marital home mortgage to be foreclosed. The foreclosure sale of the home 2 satisfied   the   underlying   mortgage,   and   he   no   longer  owes  money  to   the   mortgage holder.   Since he started his  current job, Applicant has  earned about $72,500, annually. He  also  receives  about  $2,600  in  monthly  military  disability  benefits.  He  has  earned  a bonus  every  year  thus  far  at  work.  He  and  his  cohabitant,  who  also  works  for  a government contractor, share household expenses. Since 2015, he has been a member of a self-improvement volunteer association. He takes college courses while working full time, and coaches a high school wrestling team, for which he earns a stipend of $5,000, annually.  While  he  was  in  the  Army,  he  earned  three  Army  achievement  medals  and two certificates of achievement. He testified that he is able to pay his bills on time and that he had about $6,000 combined in his two checking accounts. He currently has no delinquent financial accounts.  