In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a  through 1.f.    He  also  provided   mitigating   information.   His   admissions   are   accepted   as findings  of fact. Additional findings follow. Applicant is a 35-year-old software engineer who has worked for the same defense contractor for 11 years.  In 2006, he graduated from high school, and in 2013, he was awarded a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering.  He expects to receive a master’s degree in business administration  in 2024.  He has not married, and he does not have any children.  He has never served in the military.  In  2021,  Applicant  worked  on  the  commercial  side  of  the  defense  contractor’s business.  He was not working on defense projects.  In 2022, he shifted to software and working with defense matters.  He believed his company policy was to comply with local law concerning drug use, and in his state marijuana use is legal.  Use of illegal drugs at work is prohibited.  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse On  September  6,  2022,  Applicant  responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories  and provided the recency and frequency in which he used various illegal drugs.  He agreed at his hearing that those answers were correct.  The information about his recency and frequency of his use of illegal drugs is detailed in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f, infra. 2 SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying  frequency  from about August 2002 to about July 2021. He used marijuana once or twice a year from 2016 to July  2021.    He  smoked  marijuana  once  and  ate  CBD  edibles  or gummies  about  six  times  in  2021.    He  was  unsure  if  the  CBD  edibles contained  tetrahydrocannabinol  .    He  ate  Cannabidiol    edibles  on several  weekends  because  he  had  pain  in  his  back,  and  the  CBD edibles  helped  him sleep.  He has improved his office equipment and  received therapy to help with his back pain.  His most recent use of an illegal drug involved his consumption of CBD in July 2021 or smoking a marijuana joint earlier in 2021. SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  Applicant  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  with  varying frequency from about August 2014 to about July 2016. He said he used mushrooms three times  while  hiking  with  others  in  the  woods.    The  most  recent  use  of mushrooms was in July 2016 while with friends camping.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant used cocaine with varying frequency from about May 2015 to about July 2018. He used cocaine a total of three times: once in 2015; once in 2016; and once in 2018.  When he used cocaine the first two times, he ingested four lines or bumps.  The third time he ingested one line of cocaine at a friend’s bachelor’s party in 2018.  SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant used 3,4-Methylenedioxymethamphetamine  or ecstasy on at least one occasion on approximately May 2016. He received a dose of ecstasy from a friend at a music concert in May 2016, and he used the ecstasy.  SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant misused the prescription medication, Xanax,  which was  not  prescribed  to  him,  on  at  least  one  occasion  in  approximately  October  2015. Applicant said a friend gave him one half of a Xanax pill when he was in a bar, and he used the Xanax in October 2015.  SOR ¶ 1.f alleges Applicant used LSD on at least one occasion in approximately May 2016. He said he used LSD at a music concert in May 2016.  Applicant  voluntarily  and  truthfully  reported  his  use  of  illegal  drugs.    He regretted  his  poor  decisions  to  use  illegal  drugs.    At  the  time  he  was experimenting with illegal drugs, he did not realize or appreciate the problematic nature of  this  illegal  drug  use.    Since  2021,  he  consumes  less  than  one  alcoholic beverage per month.  Applicant  ended  his illegal drug  use  because  he  is more  mature.    He  is diligently  trying  to  improve  himself.    He  ended  his  experimentation  with  illegal drugs, and he does not attend parties and concerts where  drugs are used.  He has a good relationship with his girlfriend, and he wants to live a healthy lifestyle.  He has ended his associations with his drug-using associates.  He has no intention of using illegal drugs in the future.  3 Character Evidence Applicant’s supervisor and  a  friend  provided  character reference  statements.   Applicant was an  outstanding  athlete  in college. He was on  a  team  which  was the  best in the country at that time. He has integrity and professionalism. Applicant  has  outstanding  performance  evaluations,  and  he  received  numerous monetary and recognition awards.  He contributes to his company. 