Applicant is a 44-year-old, married man with one child, age 11. He was born and raised in Lebanon. In 1996, during his senior year in high school, he immigrated to the United States. After graduating from high school, he enrolled in a U.S. college and earned a degree in business administration.  He has been a naturalized U.S. citizen since 2002.  Currently, he works for a defense contractor, stationed overseas as a linguist and cultural advisor.  He has worked in this field for more than 15 years and has held a security clearance since 2006.  Throughout  Applicant’s  career,  he  has  been  highly  respected  by  his  peers  and supervisors.  The  director  of  operations,  an  upper-level  supervisor  at  his  current employment described his work performance as “phenomenal.”  According to Applicant’s direct supervisor, he is an “inspiring leader for the team [whose] knowledge and understanding of cultural, ethnic, geopolitical and language skills assisted the military in strengthening the safety and security of the deployed troops in the region.”  Moreover,  per  his  supervisor,  he  “has  proven  to  be especially  essential  at an  ongoing series of classified regional, strategic conferences.”  Applicant is particularly skilled at working under pressure, functioning at an extraordinarily high level during a period when the operational tempo of the unit that he supported was at a record level.  During the course of Applicant’s career as a translator, he has worked in combat zones escorting troops on various missions. Like the troops, he occasionally came under fire and has had to discharge his firearm in firefights on a couple of occasions.  An intensely patriotic man, Applicant has a tattoo of an American flag on his arm.  Applicant’s wife is a citizen of Poland.  She lives in Poland with their daughter, a dual citizen of Poland and the United States.  Applicant last saw them in June 2022. They communicate primarily by apps approximately once per week.  Applicant  and  his  wife  are  currently  separated  but  are  “trying  to  work  it  out.”   Applicant owns no property in Poland.  Applicant’s parents are dual citizens of Lebanon and the United States. Both parents moved to the United States in 1992. His father obtained U.S. citizenship in 2007 and his mother  obtained  permanent  resident  status  in  1992.  Applicant’s  mother  returned  to 2 Lebanon  in  2002  and  his  father  returned  to  Lebanon  in  2009.    Both  returned because as they aged, they began to experience more health problems, and the health insurance is less expensive in Lebanon than the United States.  Applicant talks  to  his  mother  approximately  three  times  per  week  and  he  talks  to  his  father approximately three to four times per year. He communicates with both parents through WhatsApp, an internet chat application.  Applicant provides his parents with $200 per month of financial support.  Applicant has three older brothers who are citizens of Lebanon.  All of them are naturalized U.S. citizens and two of them live in the United States.  He is not close to them because they are much older than him.  The oldest of the two brothers who lives in the United States immigrated here more than  40  years ago when Applicant was  an  infant.  Tr.  36;  GE 1 at 37) They  last  spoke approximately ten years ago.  The younger of the two brothers living in the U.S. became a naturalized U.S. citizen approximately18 years ago  Applicant last saw him in July 2023.  He does not keep in touch with him.  Applicant’s third brother, the oldest, age 68, is a dual citizen of Lebanon and the United States. He lives in Lebanon and splits his time between Lebanon and the United States.   He is a retired brigadier general in the Lebanese army.  He receives a pension.  Applicant does not keep in touch with him regularly.  He last saw him in July 2023 when he traveled to Lebanon to visit his parents.   Applicant’s niece,  the  daughter  of  his  brother  the  retired  brigadier  general,  is  a  U.S.  citizen  and resident. She works for the U.S. government and has a public trust position.  Applicant’s two sisters  are citizens  and residents of Lebanon.   Like his brothers,  they  are  much  older  than  him  and  are  not  close.  Their  contact  is   limited  too sharing messages and greetings on birthdays  and holidays through  WhatsApp.   He sometimes sees  them when he t  ravels to Lebanon to  visit  his parents. The  last time they  got together was in July  2023.    Neither of  his sisters  works for the Lebanese government.  All of Applicant’s bank accounts  are based in the United  States.    He is not a homeowner.   He  has been living  on a military  base abroad  since 2020.  Poland “is a stalwart ally in Central Europe and one of the United States’ strongest partners in fostering security and prosperity regionally, throughout Europe, and the world.”  Lebanon is a parliamentary republic which apportions governmental authority among a Christian president, a Shia Muslim speaker of the Chambers of Deputies and a Sunni prime minister. Violent extremist  groups,  including  U.S. government-designated, foreign terrorist organizations such as Hizballah and ISIS train and operate in Lebanon, and have a particularly strong presence in southern Lebanon and south Beirut.  3 Hizballah  continues  to  develop  its  global  terrorist  capabilities  as  a  complement  to  the group’s growing conventional military capabilities and seeks to reduce U.S. influence in Lebanon and the broader Middle East and maintains the capability to target U.S. people and interests in the region.  