Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor who seeks a security clearance.  Admitted  facts  are  adopted  and  incorporated  by  reference.  Additional findings of fact follow. Background Applicant married in March 2017 and divorced in March 2020.  He  has two biological children:  one from his first marriage  and another from a prior  relationship  .    Both  children  reside  with  their  respective mothers  and  receive  monthly  child  support  from  Applicant.    Applicant remarried in June 2022 and  separated in 2023.  His current wife has three  biological  children  of  her  own  from  a  previous  marriage  and  three  adopted children,  for  whom  Applicant  has  no  legal  responsibility  for  their  care  and  upbringing.   Applicant  and  his  current  wife  are  living  apart  and  anticipate  their marriage will ultimately end in divorce.  2 Applicant earned  an  associate’s degree  in  May 2014  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in May 2016.  He reported  no military service. Since  April 2022, Applicant has been  employed  as a  material coordinator.   Previously, he  worked  for other employers in  various jobs.   He  reported  brief unemployment in  2021.   Applicant has never held a security clearance.   Applicant’s finances Between 2017 and 2022, Applicant accumulated 20 delinquent debts exceeding $48,000.  He attributed his debt delinquencies to overspending during his first marriage, citing expensive cars and housing.  In his words, his debts just “avalanched.”  Under the terms of his March 2020 divorce decree, Applicant and his wife were each assigned respective responsibilities for specific marrital debts.  The debts assigned to Applicant were considerable and limited his ability to resolve them in a timely way.  Acknowledging  the  debts  assigned  to  him  by  his  divorce  decree,  Applicant accepts  full  responsibility  for  his  debts.  His  assigned  debts  are  comprised  of  the following:  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  ;  1.b  ; 1.c ; 1.d ; 1.e ; 1.f ; 1.g ;  1.h  ;  1.i  ; 1.j ; 1.k ;  1.l-1-p  and  1.r  ;  1.q  ;  1.s  ; and 1.t .  Since  his  finalized  divorce  from  his  first  wife  in  2020,  Applicant  has  addressed only  two  of  the  delinquent  debts  covered  in  the  SOR.  Based  on  his  testimony  and payment documentation, he  is credited with paying off the automotive debt covered by SOR  ¶  1.h.    His  recent  engagement  of  a  credit  repair  service,  while encouraging,  has  not  produced  any  tangible  results  in  resolving  his  delinquent accounts. Applicant’s  monthly  child  support  obligations  cover  both  of  his  biological  sons.  With respect to the mother of his son from a prior relationship, he has a  standard  custody  agreement  under  which  he  has  bi-weekly  monthly  child  support obligations of $200.  Applicant’s ordered monthly child support obligations to the child of his first marriage run $400 a month for current support and include designated amounts applied to arrears.  Applicant is credited with being in compliance  with  his  state’s  court-ordered  withholding  of  calculated  owed  child  support  from his bi-weekly pay-check.  Applicant  currently  earns  $66,000  from  his  work.    His  monthly gross  approximates  $5,425.    After  deductions,    his  net  monthly  take-home  pay  is  $2,968.   3 According  to  Applicant,  he  and  his  wife  have  lived  well  below  their  means.   Currently,  his  reported  monthly    living  expenses  total  around  $2,500.   Matching  his net-monthly take-home  pay with  his  monthly expenses leaves him with a net monthly remainder of approximately $450.  Such a small remainder leaves him with little discretionary funds to make any serious inroads into his debts.  Creditors that he has talked to have already charged off most of his SOR-listed debts and have not been willing to open their books to negotiate settlement payoffs.  