Applicant is a 44-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer since 2019. He served on active duty in the U.S. military from 2001 until he was honorably discharged in 2013. He has a General Educational Development   high  school  equivalency  diploma.  He  married  in  2001.  He  and  his  ex-wife separated in  2003  but did not  divorce until about 2019. He  lives with  his girlfriend. He has two adult children.  Applicant was arrested in November 2005 and charged with the felony offense of hindering  apprehension/prosecution  of  a  known  felon.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  the misdemeanor  charge  of  hindering  apprehension  or  prosecution.  He  was  sentenced  in January  2007  in  a  deferred  adjudication  to  probation  for  six  months,  a  fine,  and  court costs.  He  stated  that  the  offense  was  related  to  the  police’s  attempt  to  apprehend  his then girlfriend’s brother.  Applicant  was  arrested  in  November  2007  and  charged  with  driving  while intoxicated  .  He  pleaded  no  contest  or  nolo  contendere  to  DWI  in  September 2009.  He  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for  three  days,  a  fine,  and  court  costs.  The 2005 and 2007 offenses both occurred in the vicinity of the military post where Applicant was  stationed.  The  military  was  notified  of  both  arrests.  He  attended  the  military’s Alcohol and Substance Abuse Program on his military installation after the DWI  arrest. He stated that he now drinks responsibly and does not drink and drive. He has not been arrested  or  charged  with  anything  since  the  2007  DWI.   Applicant  submitted  a  Declaration  for  Federal  Employment  on  March  30,  2015. He answered “No”  to the question that asked: “During the last 7 years, have you been convicted, been imprisoned, been on probation, or been on parole? ” Applicant was arrested for DWI in 2007, which was beyond the seven-year period of the question, but his  conviction  in  September  2009  should  have  been  reported.  Applicant  denied intentionally  providing  false  information  on  the  declaration.  He  thought  the  crime  was beyond the reporting period.  Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions    in October  2020.  He  answered  “No”  to  all  the  police  record  questions  under  Section  22. The  first  block  of  questions  asked  for  information  that  occurred  “In  the  last seven  years.”  The  second  block  of  questions  asked  for  information  that  “EVER”  happened, including questions that asked: Have   you   EVER   been   charged   with   any  felony  offense?    Have   you   EVER   been   charged   with   an   offense   involving   alcohol  or drugs?   2 The  2005  felony  charge  of  hinder  apprehension/prosecution  of  a  known  felon should  have  been  reported  even  if  it  resulted  in  a  deferred  adjudication  of  a misdemeanor offense. The 2007 DWI charge should also have been reported. Applicant denied intentionally providing false information on the SF 86. He stated he misread the questions  and  thought  he  was  only supposed  to  go  back  ten  years.  He  stated  that he would not lie about his past because “I know you guys know more about me than I do, so  I  wasn’t  trying  to  hide  nothing.  I  just  don’t  remember  everything.”   The SOR alleges three delinquent debts for $19,547 , $2,978 ,  and  $645  .  The  debts  are  listed  on  one  or  more  credit  reports  from November 2020, December 2021, August 2022, and September 2023. All  four  credit  reports  list  the  for  $19,547  charged-off  joint  auto  loan  alleged  in SOR  ¶  1.a.  The  last  payment  was  made  in  July  2017.  The  two  most  recent  credit reports  include  the  comment:  “Consumer  Disputes  After  Resolution.”  Applicant  denied responsibility for the debt.  Applicant stated that he did not report this debt on the Questionnaire for National Security  Positions    he  submitted  in  October  2020  because  he  was  not responsible  for  the  loan.  He  discussed  the  loan  during  his  background  interview  in December 2020. The unauthenticated, and therefore less reliable, report of investigation of Applicant’s background interview indicated that Applicant told the investigator that he discovered the loan when he applied for a mortgage about a month after he submitted the SF 86. He stated that his ex-wife took the loan out partially in his name without his consent or knowledge, and he did not cosign for the loan. He stated that he planned to contact his ex-wife and ask her to pay the debt, which he did not expect her to do. He also  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  been  separated  from  his  ex-wife  for  a  very  long time before his divorce. He stated that if she did not pay the debt, he would contact the creditor and set up a settlement arrangement for the debt. He stated that he intended to address the debt sometime in 2021.  Applicant testified at his hearing that it was an ex-girlfriend who presumably took out  the  loan,  not  his  ex-wife.  He  indicated  that  after  they  broke  up,  the  ex-girlfriend moved  to  a  state  where  he  never  lived.  His credit  report  listed  that  an  address  in  that state  was  reported  in  November  2018.  The  credit  report  also  listed  that  Applicant  had another auto loan in his name alone from September 2016 through February 2018. He submitted a letter from the auto financing company purportedly to show that he did not have an account with the company. However,  the September 2022  response  from the company  indicated  they  were  responding  to  Applicant’s  inquiry  dated  September  20, 2022,  “requesting  the  removal  of  an  [auto  financing  company]  credit  inquiry  from  [his] credit report issued by one or more credit reporting agencies.” The company indicated it was  unable  to  locate  any  information  about  Applicant  in  their  records  and  requested additional information such as his full name and the last four digits of his Social Security number. Applicant never responded to the request for additional information. He stated that he read the letter as indicating the company was unable to locate his account.  3 Applicant contacted the auto financing company after the hearing. He wrote in his email, “I called [auto financing company] and now they do have my personal information on the account. So I now [sic] I will have to try and figure that out.”  SOR ¶ 1.b alleges a $2,978 delinquent debt on the financing for leased furniture. Credit  reports  from  November  2020  and  December  2021  indicate  the  charged-off account  was  assigned  in  November  2013  for  about  $5,255,  with  the  last  activity  in February 2015 or September 2015, and a balance of $2,978. Applicant settled the debt with  a  $884  payment  received  on  or  before  September  26,  2022,  which  is  after  he received the SOR.  SOR ¶ 1.c alleges a  $645 delinquent debt for a department store credit card. A credit  report  from  November  2020  indicates  the  charged-off  account  was  assigned  in May 2013; it had a balance of $645; and the last activity was in March 2017. Applicant paid  the  debt  in  full  on  August  24,  2021,  which  was  before  he  received  the  SOR,  but after he was questioned about the debt during his background investigation.  Applicant’s  finances  are  otherwise  in  reasonable  shape.  He  received  financial classes  when  he  was  in  the  military,  but  no  formal  financial  counseling.  He  and  his girlfriend share their expenses, and his children do not live at home.  The credit reports indicate  he  paid  a  small  collection  account  in  November  2016.  Excepting  the  SOR debts, he has not accrued any additional delinquent debts since 2016.  Applicant  answered  “No”  to  all  the  financial  questions  under  Section  26  of  his October 2020 SF 86, which included the following: In  the   last  seven     years,  [have]   you   defaulted   on  any  type   of   loan?  In the  last  seven   years, [have]  you  had  bills or debts  turned  over to  a collection   agency?    In  the   last  seven      years,   [have]   you   had   any  account  or  credit  card suspended, charged off,  or cancelled  for failing  to  pay as agreed?   In the  last seven  years, [have  you]  been  over 120  days delinquent on any  debt  not  previously  entered?   4 [Are  you]   currently  over  120   days  delinquent  on   any  debt?   1 Applicant  discussed  the  three  SOR  debts  during  his  background  interview  in December 2020. He told the investigator that he discovered the debts when he applied for a mortgage about a month after he submitted the SF 86.  Applicant denied intentionally providing false information on the SF 86. He stated he  was  not  responsible  for  the  defaulted  auto  loan,  and  he  lost  track  of  the  other  two debts.  