I am satisfied that Applicant has suffered from some form of depression since at least  high  school.  He  was  hospitalized  in  1999  and  was  arrested  and  hospitalized  in 2003.  He  was  terminated  from  a  job  in  2018,  but  it  is  unclear  if  his  mental  health condition had anything to do with the termination. His work record is otherwise good. I do  not find  that  he  was  noncompliant  with  his therapist’s recommendations;  he  simply changed providers. He is currently in counseling and is prescribed medication. I find that the  identified  condition  is  readily  controllable  with  treatment,  and  Applicant  has demonstrated ongoing and consistent compliance with his treatment plan. AG ¶ 29(a) is applicable. Psychological conditions security concerns are mitigated. Whole-Person Concept Under  the   whole-person   concept,   the   administrative   judge   must   evaluate   an applicant’s eligibility  for a  security  clearance  by  considering  the  totality  of  the  applicant’s conduct  and   all   relevant  circumstances.   The   administrative   judge   should   consider  the nine  adjudicative process factors listed at AG  ¶ 2(d): (1)  The   nature,  extent,   and   seriousness  of   the   conduct;   (2)  the include   knowledgeable the   conduct, circumstances  surrounding participation;   (3)  the   frequency   and   recency   of   the   conduct;  (4)  the individual’s  age   and  maturity   at  the   time   of  the   conduct;   (5) the   extent to the   presence   or  absence   of which  participation is  voluntary;  (6) to 13 rehabilitation and other permanent behavioral changes; (7) the motivation for  the  conduct;  (8)  the  potential  for  pressure,  coercion,  exploitation,  or duress; and (9) the likelihood of continuation or recurrence. Under  AG  ¶  2(c),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful consideration of  the guidelines and  the  whole-person concept.  I have  incorporated my comments under Guideline I in my whole-person analysis. Overall,  the   record  evidence   leaves  me   with   questions  and   doubts  about Applicant’s  eligibility   and   suitability   for  a   security   clearance.  I   conclude   Applicant mitigated  the  psychological conditions  security concerns. Formal Findings Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are: Paragraph  1, Guideline I: For Applicant Subparagraphs  1.a-1.c: For Applicant It is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for a security clearance. Eligibility for access to classified information is granted. ________________________ Edward W. Loughran Administrative Judge 14 